ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to State Control at 3 p.m. 10, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 10.30, - to State Control at 3 p.m. 11, - Administration and Home Affairs - at 3 p.m. 11.45, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 12. - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 12, - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 12, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 13, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - at 14 p.m., - Health at about an hour. 14, - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 15, - National Defense at 3 p.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u2	Thank you. Members have made their formal submissions. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Coalition. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a formal request for a recess in order to include a resolution on negotiations on the EU budget on the agenda. Today, the Sejm must send a clear signal both to our EU partners and, above all, to Poles and Poles. He's already gone. He's out. Prime Minister Morawiecki! You think you are, or you pretend you're fighting Brussels. You're late. But the truth is, you're fighting Polish governments, you're fighting Polish entrepreneurs... [[Applause]] Self-governments are fighting. ...and even you're fighting Polish students. Shut up. Unfortunately, today European government policy looks just like yesterday Prime Minister Kaczyński at a meeting with Prime Minister Orban - with a mask in front of his eyes. [[Applause]] And today, with our eyes wide open, we want to shout out loud: Not for the veto, for the European Union! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Shut up, woman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u4	First of all, I would like to inform you that, first of all, we have adopted a resolution on this issue, secondly, this proposal, as agreed at the meetings of the Seniors' Convention and the Sejm Bureau, goes to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union Committee. And we'd prefer it on the plenar, Your Marshal. You wanted to make a deposit, I mean. You've applied for a recess, and we're voting for a recess. A request for a break has been filed. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 200 for, 225 against, six stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal by Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u5	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request for a recess to complete the agenda for the Prime Minister's information on... He was. ...national vaccination strategy against COVID-19. These dozens of pages is a national strategy or an information leaflet? We demand that this information be detailed, especially since the government announced yesterday that we were only prepared for 180,000. vaccinations per week, which means that all Poles will be vaccinated in four years. It is important to give pharmacists the opportunity to be vaccinated in pharmacies, all the more so as this is possible in many European Union countries. It is not enough that we demand that any person who chooses to vaccinate against COVID-19 be exempted from all kinds of restrictions, sharpenings, limits, including the obligation to wear a mask. Few of this, we demand that all vaccinations in Poland be free of charge. Every parent who decides to have his child vaccinated against pneumococcal, bacterial, and other viruses is aware of this, which is the result of the vaccination calendar, how much it costs. From a few hundred zlotys to a few thousand. We demand that we take on the real vaccination strategy in Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u6	Thank you, sir. You know it was a non-regulatory proposal. Mr President, please do not abuse the formal proposal on such matters. There was a committee meeting yesterday, and today we voted on a request for a break. Once again, the same proposal cannot be voted on, and you know it. This is not a strategy, Marshal. You know that very well. Here you are, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left, I hope that with a formal request not for a break. Your marshal shouldn't comment on the conclusions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for a break, convening the Seniors Convention and supplementing the agenda for the government's information about the situation of Poland after the veto and possible loss of European funds and what is plan B. Just a few months ago in this room, Prime Minister Morawiecki enjoyed an ambitious budget of the European Union, with huge funds allocated to Poland for the Fund for Reconstruction. Europe got over marazm, Poland was about to get tens of billions of euros for development. Today's moods are completely different, the country's controls are taken over by Zbigniew Ziobro, Poland is one step away from losing powerful money, there are irresponsible voices about polexit. Poland from the first and Poland from the second scenario are two different Polands. The other one's just a lot poorer. That's why we want to hear from the government honestly, which is where we run out of money, what the government wants to give up. Does the agreement you signed with the miners go to the trash? What about R &amp; D money? Do we give up catching up with Europe and accept the role of the German assembly plant forever? Will Poles continue to die from curable diseases?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u8	Thank you, sir. Mr President, please read the Rules of Procedure. This is a non-regulatory proposal. Yesterday, until the hour. 21 applications were submitted. Today we discussed them at the Bureau meeting and at the Convention meeting, so do not abuse - again - the formal proposals. Last formal proposal, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation. You're welcome. May I make one more formal motion, Marshal? No, sir. I would like to ask you very much, sir. You've had enough.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u9	I ask for a recess, the Senior Convention, for the courage and finally for the vote to be put back on the agenda of the motion for a resolution tabled by a group of Members at the previous sitting, a draft resolution corresponding to the resolution of the European Parliament. Really, how much more humiliation do you need to say at least a word of objection to what's going on here? Last year, after we silently accepted the European Parliament's reprimand for a civil project that the Sejm simply respected, it was a sermon on how we respect the principles of direct democracy. Now the European Parliament has become outrageous and is not only reviewing the work of the Polish Sejm, but is doing the Constitutional Tribunal. The European Parliament felt competent to decide what is in line with the Polish constitution. And where is this threefold division of power - here too I ask the opposition - for which heroes fought here, for which Mr. Diduszko fell and rose again? What happened to it? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Courage, please, let us put the motion for a resolution to the vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u10	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, these resolutions are in the committees, thank you very much. You know we're not going to vote on the request for a break because we've already voted. Nor will I convene a convention, and these resolutions are in committees: in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and in the Committee on European Union Affairs, Mr. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws (prints Nos 720 and 760). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. At its 21st meeting on 18 November, the Sejm sent the above draft to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 19 November 2020, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. High Izbo! A few words about this bill. Well, in this draft law changes are made in several laws. Thus, the excise duty Act of 6 December 2008 provides for the simplification of the rules for monitoring the supply of excise goods in the EMCS PL2 system. Central electronic registration of excise entities shall be introduced. It is proposed that the Act of 16 November 2006 abolishes the duty to pay the tax levy for issuing written confirmation of acceptance of the registration by the head of the tax office. In addition, this is also important information, due to the current epidemic and the deteriorating situation of Polish companies, it is proposed to amend the Act of 20 July 2018 amending the Excise Tax Act and the Customs Law and to extend the period during which it will be possible to supply excise goods not only in the EMCS PL2 system, but also on the basis of the paper documentation used so far. This change means that entrepreneurs making such supplies, who will not be able to bear the costs of adapting IT systems in 2020 due to the epidemic, will not be able to bear such costs until next year in 2021. As I said, in conclusion, the Public Finance Commission asks the Sejm to adopt the attached bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u12	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I would like to draw attention to several aspects of the proposed changes in this law. The amendments introduced by this law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws are positive. They aim to facilitate, accelerate and reduce the operating costs of the proposed regulations. The changes proposed in this Act will have a positive impact on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises. Replacement of paper documents used for the movement of excise goods exempt from excise duty due to their purpose and energy products taxed at zero excise duty due to their use outside the procedure of suspension of excise duty by an electronic document, so-called. e-DD will accelerate the release of the excise security lodged by the operator following the completion of the movement of the products. This will allow businesses to move more quickly or otherwise use the funds derived from the exempt excise security. As there is a pandemic that no one has anticipated, taxpayers have this period to adapt to this good, convenient way of electronic functioning. Thanks to this law, they can make adjustments to this, it is these costs, not this year, and in the following year, 2021. Introduction changes will also reduce administrative costs on the part of entrepreneurs, e.g. by abolishing the obligation to submit quarterly compilations of paper delivery documents issued. The introduction of the possibility to divide the shipment into the territory of another Member State in the case of shipments of energy products by rail using the suspension of excise duty procedure in the EMCS system will improve the movement operations in this area and will have a positive impact on the speed of completion of shipments. All the previous acts relating to the procession of this law are very good in the sense that there are no special voices here that would be against these changes. There were no votes in the substantive committee against it, not even a vote. So that's a good forecast for the end of the process over this bill. Today, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, Mr Marshal, I still make two amendments, which concern two areas: the adaptation of the law concerning the introduced act on electronic services, and that is why there are amendments, as well as adjustments to the excise duty on cars and the adjustments of these articles, as a result of these changes. At the same time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that the above. adopt a law with these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u14	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michał Jaros, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u15	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club in relation to printing 720, the original, and printing 760 - the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. In the beginning, it is worth mentioning that some of the changes that were proposed in the original version of the project had to be changed, among others. because of the conflict with the provisions of the Electronic Service Act, which has been dealt with recently. It also turned out again that the government bill was sent to the Sejm with numerous legislative errors, which fortunately were verified by the Legislative Office. I noticed it, but the committee chairman also noticed it. We would ask the Ministry to better prepare these projects and to consult with the Legislative Office in advance. The relatively broad powers of officials to decide discretionaryly on issues that have so far been quite specific, but not ideally regulated, raise doubts. The introduction of a single register of excise agents kept by the designated authority, which will become the central electronic registration of operators in excise duty, in place of the existing local registers kept by the tax heads responsible for excise matters should in principle be considered appropriate. It was consulted with entrepreneurs, the entrepreneurs asked for it. It is therefore a good thing that these changes will enter into force in the near future. It must be said that environmental measures are very important for us, for the Civic Coalition, especially important. By debating this draft law, which concerns, among others, excise duty, the issue of hybrid cars should be addressed. We call for them to be exempt from excise duty by at least 2023. According to what the Minister said, we're going out to meet him, and we're also checking to see if the Minister will keep his word, because he said he was willing to extend this exemption from excise duty for hybrid cars. We propose and request that this be extended until 2023, because it will no longer apply from 1 January. When analysing the individual provisions of this project, it should be considered to be partially in line with the needs that entrepreneurs report. We have to believe - and at the same time to watch - that at the last minute there will be no changes that will adversely affect taxpayers. According to what we just heard from a member representing the PiS Club, I don't think there will be any of these changes. We are therefore inclined to support this bill. On the other hand, it should be made clear every time that, in such difficult times as these, support for entrepreneurs is crucial. Therefore, in creating any further legislation, especially in the field of tax law, it must be remembered that it is they who create the Polish economy, they pay taxes and these taxes should be as low as possible for them, especially during this most difficult period, so that the funds they have, which they have, are devoted to the development of enterprises, to wages which are also reduced during this difficult period. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, I'm making an amendment to this bill. I'm directing her to the hands of your marshal. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Like I said, it's about... I will read it: During the period until 1 January 2023 a passenger car constituting a hybrid vehicle within the meaning of Article shall be exempt from excise duty. 2 point 13 of the Act of 11 January 2018 on electromobility and alternative fuels with an internal combustion engine capacity of 2000 cm3 or less. So that's our amendment. We're asking you to accept it. I assume that the Ministry will respond positively to this, which I am counting on and what people who care about the welfare of the Polish environment are counting on. So that we support this bill at this stage. I also ask the High House to support this bill. Thank you very much on behalf of the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u16	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Anita Sowinska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u17	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left on the draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, print No 720. This proposal provides for amendments to the excise duty Act of 6 December 2008 and aims, first, at simplifying the rules for monitoring the supply of excise goods on the basis of an electronic document, so-called. e-DD, with the use of the EMCS system, secondly, subject to monitoring in the system of additional operators who sell coal products exempt from excise duty, to covering movements of imported excise goods exempt from excise duty or taxed at zero excise duty, and to covering movements of exported excise goods taxed at zero excise duty on account of their intended use. The purpose of this law is also to regulate the rules for monitoring the movement of energy products by pipeline, to regulate the rules for changing the means of transport of products moved on the basis of an electronic document, to introduce a central electronic registration of excise entities, including the obligation of non-business operators, and to allow for the division of the shipment outside the territory of the country. In principle, we support provisions aimed at digitising and simplifying procedures. In the long term, this is beneficial for business management, for reducing the costs of the system as a whole, and for reducing paper circulation, which has a beneficial environmental impact. It should also be stressed that the proposed arrangements should contribute to better control over the movement of excise goods exempt from excise duties or products taxed at zero excise duty, and this should mean better collection of taxes. One thing that raises our doubts is art. Point 1 (6) (a) a draft law, where the content of the article changes. 16 laws. An extension of the catalogue of entities subject to an electronic registration notification is envisaged to non-business entities, e.g. municipal offices, schools, hospitals, kindergartens or police units. In our view, this is too far-reaching, imposing additional, complex obligations on small gas customers. I would like to point out that the possible benefits of extending the catalogue of entities subject to electronic registration are at least questionable because the transport of liquid gas to such customers will still be closely monitored using the e-DD. This group of customers also does not generate the risk of excise duty, not only because it is fragmented, but also because liquid gas, unlike other petrol or diesel fuels, is a fuel requiring specific infrastructure related to filling, transport or suction. Therefore, in our assessment, the obligation to register in this case is not appropriate to the existing risk. Alternatively, if the registration obligation cannot be waived, consideration may be given to introducing a solution whereby the consignor will be entitled to carry out a registration obligation on non-business users. I ask the Minister to reconsider this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u18	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present our position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on excise duty and certain other laws, the printing of Seym No 720. According to the current legal situation, i.e. in force until 31 January 2021, in the case of movements of excise goods which are exempt from excise duty on grounds of destination or zero excise duty, traders may choose whether they wish to use paper or electronic delivery documents. Since the beginning of February 2022, however, the only option will be to use the EMCS system and electronic documents. According to the regulation submitted in the project, the Ministry of Finance plans to extend the period during which paper delivery documents can also be used until 31 January 2022. The draft also provides for changes in the marketing of carbon products exempt from excise duty. According to the proposed changes, depending on whether the intermediate coal operator has sold less than 30 million kg of coal products in the previous year, it will be obliged to supply coal products using an e-DD from February 2022. As a club, we feel that the project, on the one hand, contains regulations that meet businesses, ordering, simplifying excise duties, and, on the other hand, at the present time, focuses on solutions that will clean up the current system. We are in favour of working as efficiently as possible on this project by the High House so that it can enter into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u20	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Arthur Dziambor, the Wheel of the Confederation of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u21	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The change that the legislator wants to introduce is a change, I think, quite neutral, obvious and a little easier to live - especially for entrepreneurs - and it is possible that we can actually go this way. The circulation of documents should be as narrow as possible and the formalities should be kept to a minimum. On the other hand, it is worth talking about excise duty itself during this discussion. Of course, it is not the subject of this law, but it could be if it was discussed, for example, by Mr Jaros of the Civic Platform, who requested that hybrid cars be added to the content of the law. I would like to say that all cars might as well be added, for example. As part of the gesture of goodwill of the government itself at this difficult time, we are encouraged from all sides to be eco-friendly, i.e. to choose public transport instead of a car, or to ride scooters or bikes, or to choose a walk. At this point it is promoted by cities, the possibility of driving into the center is still limited, high parking fees are introduced. In parallel, the government regularly reminds us of buying and encourages us to buy new cars. On the other hand, it is not that Poles buy old cars, often from abroad, to anger the government, they simply cannot afford new cars. Since Poles cannot afford new cars in mass, the government, in understanding this, should facilitate the life of Poles by taxing them and reducing the cost of their lives. One idea for this is, for example, during a difficult health period, but it could be written down forever - the complete abolition of excise duties on foreign cars. It is such a gesture of goodwill, because as we know, the government gets quite a lot of money thanks to the fact that we are - some of us - so brazen that we have the audacity to buy cheaper cars abroad than to look in Poland on our often expensive market. In addition, the quality of cars Unfortunately, it also leaves much to be desired when we buy on our home market, because somehow it is that we often cannot take care of cars, and we sell most often only when they are already in a mess. I give this to the government - of course for the future, because you know you're not going to do it now, but this discussion is going to come back, because it comes back regularly when new restrictions come in and you're trying to disgust those who drive cars in some way. They love you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u22	Thank you very much. The question was asked by Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left. Come on in. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Law of 14 December 2018 introduced a transitional regulation allowing for the use of a paper delivery document until 31 December and subsequently extended until 31 January 2021. Entrepreneurs therefore have the possibility to apply new rules of movement with an alternative possibility to apply existing paper documentation. However, in order to be able to apply the electronic circulation for delivery from 1 February 2021, traders must bear the adjustment costs, mainly financial costs. I have a question for the government: Can small companies, small businesses, count on government compensation in this case? Line two. Well, the government's been working on this bill for almost a year. Companies, companies, institutions said in November ub. On the other hand (the bell) the Minister for European Union Affairs only spoke on 2 November and - I would say quite diplomatically - this is not the most positive statement for this law. If I could kindly ask for an opinion on this matter, I would be obliged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have a brief question. It's about the electronics system. As these responsibilities will require entry, registration in the system, I wanted to ask: Will he be ready in time, is this a sufficient perspective and will it be available in such a way that there is no turbulence here? Because we know that the issue of ICT systems, which are created by various types of offices, is always an unknown which causes turbulence, then the deadlines are shifted. Therefore, will you be prepared here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u26	Thank you very much. Is Mr Szczerba in the Chamber? I'm used to it being always and everywhere. But he's not here. This is Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, Minister, to answer whether you would like to support the amendment that Mr Jaros mentioned concerning hybrid cars is about extending the exemption from excise duty for these cars. And while we are talking about taxes, I would like to remind the Minister that the time we live in, the time of the deepening crisis is the time when people, our country's citizens, should be exempt from taxes and reduce their fees. So don't be surprised if I ask you: Are you going to do this tax exemption project - from any tax - to prepare and present it to us in the near future? Because for the time being, you've passed on 40 of them, and in fact, the money you're handing over to citizens, for example. For the 500+ program, you're pulling citizens out of their pockets. So I ask for specific information: when Members finally get to know each other, [[♪ The bell ♪]] A project that will be for people? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u28	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law amends the application of the formal conditions for benefiting from exemption from excise duty on certain products. This is defined in Article. Article 31a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down In turn, the article. 14 Directive 2003/96/EC of the European Council of 27 October 2003 provides that Member States are exempt from excise duty, inter alia. energy products and electricity used to maintain the capacity to produce electricity, energy products supplied for use as fuel for air navigation purposes other than private non-commercial flights. It follows from this provision (the Bell) that these exemptions are compulsory. Thus, the provisions of the contested law may be contrary to European Union law. I therefore ask you to answer the question: Will the provisions be amended so that they do not conflict with the above-mentioned directive? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u30	Mr Paweł Papke, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u31	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The customs law introduces the use of the EMCS PL2 system and the electronic delivery document e-DD for movements in the territory of the country outside the excise duty suspension procedure for excise goods exempt from that excise duty due to their purpose. Of course, about this whole bill, I have a few questions. What extent of changes must be made in the system and how long will the system be modernised? Next question: Can the system update be made in a system purchased by the end of 2020? The provisions provide that, in order to be able to apply the electronic delivery document, the e-DD mentioned above, from 1 February 2021, traders must bear the adjustment costs, mainly financial costs, in 2020. And the third question: What happens if entrepreneurs fail to adapt to the above mentioned. Guidelines? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister regarding the amendment tabled by the Civic Coalition, which aims to exempt hybrid cars from excise duty - I think this is about a capacity of 2 000. cm3 - and below by 2023 Minister, what financial effect would this amendment have on the state budget? During the debate there was also a statement that the government introduced 40 taxes. You voted for it. I wanted to ask you if it is true, Minister, that in 2019 the government reduced the general tax of PIT from 19% to 18%, i.e. nominally 6% for taxpayers who pay PIT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u35	I'm here, I'm here. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Also, Mr Fellowship! A similar proposal for exemption from excise duty was included in the Act, which was, of course, proceded in the Sejm. It is about the law on the tax on goods and services and the law - Bank law. This, of course, raised some doubts about the constitutional obligation of three readings, as well as the resulting principles of correct legislation. Unfortunately, this was the procedure of the bill. They were written, among others. those provisions on excise duty exemptions for hybrid cars. On the other hand, we want to create a good law and we are making an amendment which concerns excise duty in the law, which concerns changes in excise duty. We're making this amendment. Therefore, at the end of my speech, I ask the question: Minister, will you support our amendment? Will you respond positively to our amendment on [[♪ The bell ♪]] the exemption from excise duty of hybrid cars until 1 January 2023, i.e. for the next 2 years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u36	Thank you very much. All these questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jan Sarnowski. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u37	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to the first subject, the amendment tabled by the Member, first of all, I would like to clarify one thing for you. The amendment on the same content, namely extending the possibility of applying excise duty exemption until 2023 for this one specific category of hybrid cars which would not be covered by this exemption from January next year, has already been notified during the work of the Sejm Committee on the revision of the VAT Act. Now this bill is in the Senate. We have decided to proceed with this amendment under another project, given that the project will find its completion faster than the project we are discussing today, because, as the changes in excise legislation must enter into force on 31 January next year, so the amendments to the VAT Act will enter into force from 1 January, so that there will be no regulatory gap and the exemption will start to work simply at the beginning of next year. 284 - this is the number of the Senate printing. I encourage you to familiarize yourself with it, also to pass it on to your colleagues in the Senate, so that they also support this initiative, so that we can simply come to a positive end with this solution. I will move on to extending the catalogue of entities subject to electronic reporting of transport, the use of excise goods to public units, schools, local government units. This is about two elements. Firstly, we do so at the request of the National Tax Administration, because today the movement of these products even for public entities is documented only in writing, on paper. We only have information from the sender, but we do not have a direct view of whether the goods have arrived at the place of dispatch. So that this change is of a sealing nature, it will improve the work of the National Tax Administration. I would also like to clarify that these are not small entities. These are, however, those units that use a larger volume of gas or other excise goods. Let us remember: this obligation will not apply to natural persons who are not engaged in business activities. This most sensitive category of consumers will therefore in no way lose on this, will not be subject to additional obligations. Moreover, the project was subject to public consultation and neither the local authorities nor any public bodies submitted any comments or requests for time-limit redeployment. Let me remind you that this will be a simple settlement by means of an electronic system, requiring very little involvement in its operation. I would refer to the need to include non-taxed e-registration. As for the adjustment costs of small companies, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Finance has prepared a free generator, a free software system under which companies can report this kind of turnover. This system is open to every company. While large players on the market have their own reporting systems, smaller companies can benefit from the software that we provide them with, so that these adjustment costs will also be appropriately lower. Will we be ready with the EMCS system? Ladies and gentlemen, the system is ready. It has been prepared and is now tested by entrepreneurs. As regards the e-DD system, I would like to remind you that the law also introduces the possibility of moving the entry into this business system by 31 January 2022. So that next year the possibility of settlement and electronic e-DD system will function, and using paper forms. We do this at the level of entrepreneurs who were worried that they would be able to adapt in due course to new changes. As regards the question of conflicting the contested law with the provisions of Directive 2003/96/EC, I would like to inform you that this was analysed by the Ministry of Finance and we do not see this contradiction here. As regards possible tax exemptions, I would like to remind you that on 30 November in the Official Journal of the Laws laws were published, which will effectively reduce the tax burden of micro and small enterprises by PLN 7 billion. From next year it will be available for Polish smaller companies with turnover of up to PLN 100 million. Estonian CIT, which will allow an effective tax rate, as long as the entrepreneur himself does not want to pay it (the bell) will not pay himself a dividend, will simply be 0%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u38	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Health on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration (Prints No 209 and 703). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u39	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration, Prints No. 209 and 703. The Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Health, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 22 October 2020, without a vote of objection, invite the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. The draft law is extremely important and regulates legislative changes aimed at optimising the system of collection of fees and the effectiveness of taxpayers' compliance with the obligations imposed by the Law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and creating the conditions for effective recovery by tax authorities. The amendments to the Law on sobriety and combating alcoholism consist in clarifying the provisions relating to the levy referred to in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act, in such a way that it follows from them that the competent authorities on the fee in question are the heads of the tax offices who transfer the fee collected to the Sports Activities Fund for Students. The joint committees request the adoption of a draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u40	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mr Marek Matuszewski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u41	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I took part in the presentation of a position towards a government draft law amending the Law on Sobriety and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration, print No 209. The project concerns the optimisation of the charging system for advertising of alcoholic beverages and the effectiveness of taxpayers' compliance with the obligations imposed by the Law of 26 October 1982 on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the creation of conditions for effective recovery by tax authorities. Marshal of the Sejm after first reading at the 5th session of the Sejm on 5 February this year. addressed the above-mentioned draft for joint consideration by the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Health. The joint committees considered this draft law at their joint meeting on 22 October 2020, amending the date of entry into force of the Act and the editorial and clarification amendment. The committees had a positive legal and substantive opinion drawn up by the Office for Sejm Analysis. I kindly inform the High House that this bill does not raise objections. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I recommend that it be adopted by law and justice. The report is contained in print No 703. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u42	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Ireneusz Breś from the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition vis-à-vis the government's draft law on amending the law on sobriety education and combating alcoholism and the law on enforcement proceedings in administration, print No 209. Today we refer to the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism and the Committee on Health on Draft Printing Law 209. I would like to remind you that many times ago, at the request of parliamentarians focused on physical culture and sport, there was a good solution to the creation of the Sports Activities Fund for Students, which aims to finance sports activities for students run by sports clubs operating in the form of associations and other non-governmental organisations. This fund has worked well for years in the field of sport, support by... It is another instrument, one of the funds at the disposal of the Minister responsible for physical culture. The philosophy was that the specially separated account at the disposal of the Minister of Sport was paid 10% of the fees. the tax base on goods and services from traders providing services which are advertising of alcoholic beverages. That's the construction that was adopted. On the other hand, reporting itself, the declarations themselves flowed to the tax office. It was such a difficult situation here, because it was a matter of very efficient reporting, reporting so that there was no gray zone, so that the proceeds to this fund were appropriate, in line with the reasons and assumptions of the law at that time. It is therefore a good thing that, after years of analysis, we are making a change, namely that, yes, the disposition is not affected, because according to the idea, the minister responsible in the field of sport will have the money, while the case... Entrepreneurs' funds will first influence the relevant tax office account and those companies will have to make declarations there, which will allow for better control of these payments. And we hope that the fund will not lose because some entrepreneurs do not pay these fees. Therefore, we, as Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, are not proposing any amendments as regards these amended rules. With regard to the report... The report is not much different from this government proposal, we have only regulated some legislative and editorial issues. Of course, we have changed the date of entry into force of the rules because it has become obsolete - this is the most important change. On behalf of my fellow Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition proposes that we adopt this amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u44	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Janusz Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the Law on Sober Upbringing and Against Alcoholism, the Sports Activities Fund for Students was established, which is the responsibility of the Minister responsible for physical culture. This fund is a State-owned special-purpose fund and its revenues are revenue from fees which advertising service providers of alcoholic beverages bring to an isolated account created for this purpose by the Minister responsible for physical culture. This fee is 10% , is also intended for tasks set out in the public health legislation on physical activity. The implementation of sports activities for students of our Polish schools has been supported by this fund since 2003. Between 2005 and 2008, these classes were intended for pupils of all types of schools and included various sports disciplines such as football, volleyball, basketball. In 2009, however, a programme priority was adopted, which was to learn how to swim. The aim of this solution was to promote swimming skills and to eliminate barriers to access to organised forms of physical activity by creating conditions for participation in nationwide swimming science programmes called "I can swim." Since 2017, the implementation of the programme has continued, and the scope of the supported disciplines has been extended, among others. Winter sports. I would like to say with satisfaction that from the beginning of the work on the adoption of this law, a good law for the development of Polish sport, a good law for young people, a good law for children, there was a government of the Democratic Left Alliance, there were Members who were then sitting here on these benches, among others. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, who spoke on behalf of the Committee on Physical Culture and recommended that the High House adopt solutions in this law. As far as the good solutions that the Left had and has are concerned, and in this Chamber it always works so that if the Law and Justice want to improve the good solutions that serve people, then my club will improve these solutions and as it will here vote in favour. This is so that legislative changes can optimise the system of charging and the effectiveness of taxpayers' compliance with the obligations imposed by the Law on Education and the Prevention of Alcoholism. This is a good project. The Left Club will vote in favour of the solutions put forward in this project. This project has also received the appropriate good opinions of both the Polish Olympic Committee and the Polish Paralympian Committee, which my club welcomes with great appreciation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u46	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u47	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - the Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I have the honour to give an opinion on amendments to the Act on the amendment of the Law on Sobriety Education and Against Alcoholism and the Act on Enforcement in Administration, respectively prints No. 209 and 703. In the current legal situation, another entity receives a fee due for advertising of alcoholic beverages and another is made up of a declaration. This adversely affects the efficiency of the toll collection system. In addition, the existing law does not specify which authorities are competent to take decisions and recover those fees. It should be mentioned that these fees are directed towards the Sports Activities Fund for Students, i.e. the goal is as good as possible and necessary. Therefore, in the assessment of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, the proposed changes were introduced, i.e. it is appropriate to assign to the tax offices all duties relating to the collection of fees and the submission of declarations. The introduction of e-declarations and clarification of the enforcement system will also have a positive impact on the implementation of the provisions of the Law on Sobriety Education. My Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives positively reviews the draft amendments presented by the committee. We hope that these improvements will result in more funding for sport for children and young people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u48	Thank you very much. I would like to invite Mr Krzysztof Tuduja, the Wheel of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The contested law cleans up and makes the current legal situation more effective by sealing the system, thus facilitating the recovery of advertising fees for alcoholic beverages. I am most in favour of promoting sport, for sports activities of young people, especially in these smartphone times. But if we lean on the alcohol problem, then sport is not the full and only answer. You might as well organize classes on how to train strong will, set goals in life. You can also give a real warning: by participating in sessions of support groups dedicated to anonymous alcoholics, which can lead to the use of alcohol as a psychoactive substance. It should be emphasized that not orders and orders constitute an example of sobriety. Undoubtedly, children and young people are the easiest to recreate the patterns known from experience. The idea of funding sports activities for children and young people with advertising fees for alcohol products is based on the same logic as sending children to church by parents who do not want to go to church. Such a method of combating alcohol is long-term ineffective. It's just a way of putting down remorse, giving legislators and officials the feeling that something is being done, that something is being countered. Knowledge among adult Poles needs to be promoted in order to use alcohol in moderation. How? Maybe using public television, that's why I think she exists. You can e.g. promote the existing interesting project of the "Alcohol-America," which I found out about yesterday. Anti-alcoholic concepts and programmes should be built in this direction. They should be directed directly to those who are at risk, so that a daily bottle or still a terrifyingly fashionable monkey bottle will not become a life's advisor. The Law on Sober Upbringing and Against Alcoholism, which is being revised by this project, was passed in 1982, so still in the shadow of martial law. Since then, it has been updated many times. Alcohol, its consumption, also alcohol disease remained, but the number of products offered and many aspects of everyday life have changed, such as the pace of life, high expectations, daily stress. It may even be worth finishing the amendment and looking at it freshly, taking into account the research carried out in this millennium and the current knowledge, simply preparing a new law. Finally, we do not yet have a study on alcohol consumption in 2020. The repeated halt of the economy, the poorly conducted information policy on the fight against COVID is likely to also lead to higher alcohol consumption this year. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u51	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this law has its roots in 1982, in a state of war. I do not know if you know that it was created because General Jaruzelski was an abstinent. Indeed, this entire bill is suitable for basketball. He's got a series of very harmful records. Instead of removing these records, the state is dealing with some minor details. And one of the more harmful provisions of this law is the only provision in Europe prohibiting online alcohol sales. It is an absurd record, striking the Polish economy, in Polish producers, whether it is regional beer, craft beer, contract breweries or other drinks. And it is during the crisis caused by your closure of gastronomy that this recipe destroys people's lives. In September, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki with representatives of the Visegrad Group was at the premises of my favorite factory brewery in Lublin, in Poniatowa near Opole Lubelski, and freely consumed beer there. Today, the owner of this brewery informs us that he has three months of supplies left until the company's bankruptcy. Employment has already been reduced by almost 70%. It's because companies like this can't normally sell alcohol and send it to people who want to buy it by post. Note: How do big networks and other companies care? Well, they offer their assortment in stores registered abroad. That's how it's done. With the last shield, there was an amendment, but unfortunately the Members of the Left voted inappropriately, and it did not work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There will be such an amendment at this session of the Sejm. I appeal to all Members to finally remove this harmful provision from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u52	Thank you very much. I do not know if the Members of the Left voted improperly. They voted as they wanted, sir. They demanded that this amendment be removed and then voted against. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions are about to begin. I invite Mrs Joanna Fabisiak from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Despite my beautiful invitation, he won't come. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Civic Coalition. Mr Suchoń is as usual, so be my guest.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm glad the marshal was so happy to welcome me to this podium, but also, I think, the subject is... Because you're pretty and you're smart. But where am I going with the marshal here in this House? Mr. Marshal, who shouldn't we be complimenting each other, right? And since the subject is important and encouraging, I would say, what we all dream of, or public health, I wanted to ask the Minister, on the occasion that this law is being processed, how the funds from this fund have been used this year, because it is difficult to find information on the Ministry's website concerning competitions. There's information from previous years, and this year's I couldn't find it, so I'd really like to ask for this information. And maybe because of the thinness of time, but also some work (the bell), if I may ask the Minister if she would be kind enough to direct such a summary in writing... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the competent minister, who is responsible for the resources for carrying out sports tasks in the context of the Student Sports Activities Fund. Is it true that you plan to reduce the grant for this fund from about 28 million PLN to 21 million in 2021? I ask this because of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which shows that the percentage of children and young people aged 11 and 17 who are engaged in physical activity in accordance with the World Health Organisation guidelines has decreased. I'm thinking 60 minutes of activity a day for seven days a week. According to NIK, only 21% in 2013 children met this requirement in 2018. - It's only 15% now. I'm afraid to think about what the 2020 result will be. How does this apply to the planned (the bell) by local authorities investments from the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture? I'm thinking here, for example. about the first in the district of Sępolenski swimming pool in Sępólno Krajński, about investments concerning sports facilities in Bydgoszcz: rehabilitation pool or the construction of an athletic hall and sports shooting on the territory of the Sports Complex of Zawisza. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u56	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Zofia Czernow from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask you about the fund. How do you estimate the annual revenues of this fund after taking into account the changes that are currently under review? That's the first question. Secondly, how are these measures shared in the current year, 2020? What are the criteria for division? How much of this money do school sports clubs get? Do they even get it? Is there money for sports clubs, for training children and young people? The money in the clubs is missing, and it's very much. Unfortunately, the Ministry does not support sports clubs for children and young people. Why aren't these data published? It's very difficult to access, it's not transparent. I would ask for a specific answer here as well as in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government amends the law on matters of little importance because of the health problem of addicts and the quality of life of their families. As you can see, so far there is no need to introduce a provision on the compulsory treatment of addicts, which is only used in the event of life or loss of health. In my opinion, it is It's a very important issue. You still don't see the tragedy of families, wives, mothers and children of addicts, you don't see the need to give them real help, both to the harmed and to the directly addicted. It is worth noting that an addict is not able to decide his or her fate rationally, so in such a case coercion means only rescue. The current law only covers and pets this problem, and families living with an addict are often beaten, bullied, without funding for life, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They don't have anywhere to move out and they can't apply for forced treatment. Is that help? Answer yourselves. Yes - for the Union, not - for the veto. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u60	Thank you very much. We will be joining with Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska. Oh, and we see your messenger. We wish you health above all. Miss, you're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u61	Thank you. Thank you very much. The use of these measures in accordance with the provision for sport by children and young people is It's the right thing to do. However, the law itself, as has already been mentioned, comes from 1982, when advertising, alcohol advertising in the media was much less, the media looked completely different. Alcohol problem in Poland is one of the biggest social problems - we have 2% alcoholics and 12% alcohol abuse. This affects the health of Poles, even on the course of COVID, and is associated with other threats. Health care is burdened with the treatment of alcoholism itself and concomitant diseases. Therefore, I have a question for the government: shouldn't alcohol advertising be limited, even though it is already limited e.g. on TV to late night hours, limit these ads (the bell) and finance sports of children and young people from the state budget? It would be cheaper and cheaper - I think, given the measures that health care spends on the treatment of alcoholism - and better for society as a whole, for those who have a problem, and for their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u63	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed legislative changes aim to optimise the charging system and to improve the effectiveness of taxpayers' compliance with the obligations imposed by the Law on Sobriety Education and the Prevention of Alcoholism. The current circumstances mean that another entity receives the fee due and another declaration adversely affects the efficiency of the toll collection system. Hence my questions. Will the clarification of the provisions of this amendment relating to the fee lead to the initiation of late recovery proceedings against businesses and thus the collection of claims on the student sports activities fund? So far we have had a problem with the efficiency of the toll collection system and not all the charges have been included in the bill. And the second question, of course: How much does the Ministry estimate is tax arrears that are not paid? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As to the correctness of these issues relating to funds and funds, there is no discussion, but I think that the key issue as regards destiny... We often talk about combating alcoholism, but in the 21st century, especially when it comes to young people, we have not only classic alcohol addictions, but there is also the issue of drugs, drugs. I think we should also look at what kind of programs in the educational sense should be dedicated, which can really go to a young man, because of course swimming, classes are very important, but for example. At my home, in my town, we're doing this kind of program with the fantastic Reg Dragons futsal academy, and we have this project that just proves that we're fighting futsal against the boosters. We show these things. Maybe it's worth it, Minister, to join forces when we have a program called "Club" (The Bell), so needed and effective, e.g. add a component related to the fight against addiction. I think it would be an interesting direction and many clubs could go in that direction if we added this component. I think it could be very effective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of my club, I commended you, and now I'm going to ask you individually. That's right. We have been working on this law in the High House since spring this year. During this time, for reasons closer unknown at the Olympic rate, the government changed the law on government departments. And there would be no doubt here, only that in this law on the departments of government has introduced revolutionary changes in the administration of Polish sport, cooperation with sports unions and financing of Polish sport. The Olympic tempo was that without the bill, the Prime Minister in October this year. appointed a representative for the functioning of the National Sports Centre. Now I have a question. Who will be supervised by the sports fund: (The bell) or by the Minister responsible for sports, or by the National Sports Centre? Let me remind you that in this act you have given the State of the National Sports Centre various types of cultivation, also concerning the financing of sport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor from the Confederate circle. In good health, I see, fortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Each of us has our own drugs. For some, these are cigarettes, for some it's alcohol, for others it's fast driving, for others it's sugar, for me pizza, for others soft drugs, which we don't know why they're illegal. But here we are discussing something that the government shouldn't really do at all, but should be dealing with charities. They should be involved in advertising and promoting a healthy lifestyle. The State should not participate in this at all, and the taxes we pay should be appropriate. We should know how much of our taxes and to what extent it supports the fight against alcoholism, which, as I said, should be dealt with by others, not the state, the fight against other drugs and how much of our taxes go to promote sport. The promotion of sport, i.e. at all sport, which should also be (the bell) completely excluded from the state budget, because it is not the country that should be engaged in sport. Thank you very much and thank you for allowing me to extend my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u70	There you go, I was interested in the catalogue of temptations you mentioned, because it's different with them. Mrs Magdalena Łośko, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rules in force so far provided that the 10% fee for advertising services for alcoholic beverages was directly charged to the account created for this purpose by the Minister responsible for physical culture, of course for the Sports Activities Fund for Students. Between 2018 and 2020 more than 28 million PLN were allocated annually to the Sports Activities Fund for Students, while in 2021 21 million PLN is planned to be spent, it is close to 8 million PLN less. Question: "Will the introduction of direct tax agencies in the transfer of funds to the account of the Minister for Physical Culture involve costs and a reduction of funds for the Sports Activities Fund for Students?" Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u72	Thank you very much. I think so of Mr Arthur Dziambor. You know how the PiS ministers stand behind us, we don't feel well. I'm sorry. We were just talking for a second. I'll sit down. I'm not complaining, I'm doing it with great empathy. Please, Wiesław Buj, Member of the Left Parliamentary Club. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I know, I'm famous for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed law assumes that the changes do not affect the expenditure of the state budget and the local government. In my opinion, they are affecting because there is a change in the fact that at the moment these measures have been sent to the competent Ministry, in this case the Ministry of Physical Culture. Currently, after the adoption of this law, they will be placed on the account of the Sports Activities Fund for Students. In addition to the direct belief that these funds for pupils... will there be more direct transfers for pupils, or will the contribution to the school fund increase? Because, let's say, there will be no algorithm or division. I also do not believe that so far all funds have been returned to the students, because this is also not mentioned in any reports. Will these measures therefore be More for the students? How'd it go so far? How much money did the Ministry get? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u74	Thank you very much, sir. These questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Sport, Minister Anna Krupka. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I will start by saying that advertising fees, also resulting from this law, are now being allocated to the Sports Activities Fund for Students. This year, because there were such questions here, we financed from it even such actions and programs as I can swim, programs concerning the dissemination of winter sports, corrective and compensatory gymnastics. This year we have allocated over PLN 28 million, i.e. 28 860,000. zł In the future, it will be about PLN 21 million, while the reduction in resources for 2021 results from the funds already used from previous periods. On the other hand, the revenue from the advertising fee is planned at the same level. In addition, next year from the Physical Culture Development Fund, there will be more funds for sport of children and young people, we will spend about PLN 10 million more. So we're actually gonna spend more on that next year. Next year the revenue from the advertising fee will amount to about PLN 17.5 million - this is what we plan, this is what we predict. In the case of advertising charges for alcoholic beverages, the heads of the tax offices will be competent, and the current amount of the charges payable together with interest is around 100,000. zł. The Director of the Sports Activities Fund for Students is and will be the Minister responsible for physical culture. There was a question here about sports clubs. One of the messengers noticed that support for the clubs was insufficient. Well, I wanted to stress that this statement is absolutely unlawful. This year we have allocated to small and medium-sized sports clubs under the government's club program, which we created in 2016, about 55 million and any applications that were submitted by clubs in accordance with formal requirements, were co-financed, i.e. any club that submitted a valid application, received support. Those clubs were... 4902 clubs received support. So the record amount this year was allocated to the club program. This was also due to the fact that this was an exceptional year for the outbreak of Cortipinus, while at the same time there was a record number of clubs that were supported. There's never been such broad support for sports clubs. One of the messengers also pointed out that in her opinion the physical activity of Poles is falling. According to a study by the Minister's office at the Ministry of Sport, this activity is increasing. I'll even quote a fragment of these results. Percentage of Poles practicing physical activity in free time, without walking recreationally in a dimension recommended by the World Health Organization. We have a group here from 15 to 69. the year of age. In 2019 this percentage was 17% , and in 2022. - 30.6%. So this activity is increasing. I also have other data that show it here, and I'm very happy to share it. Of course, we will also answer this question in writing. And that's basically everything. The rest of the questions, if I haven't answered any questions, we'll also answer them in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. In fact, I also observe increased physical activity of Poles and Poles. Very often you can see them walking. This is going in the right direction, in my opinion. The data was without walking. I'm closing... Oh, there's the rapporteur. I had a note saying you might not be here, sir. Dear Marshal... And if you thought I was gonna do it maliciously, no, no. The witchy one, not Terlecki, it's okay. There you go. No, no, Terlecki's a very good vice marshal, I'd like to point out. He's very good, but he's different.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u77	I want to point out to the microphone that Marshal Terlecki is a very good vice marshal, and I can only... [[Applause]] Oh, thank you for the applause. The marshal, on the other hand, made it impossible for me to... Mr President, I confirm. Mr President, if you will allow me, because I will not be in conflict with Mr Terletki, I, too, confirm that he is a very good marshal, albeit a little different. Each of us is different. Mr. Marshal! To cut short this exchange of views, I wanted to join the thanks you tried to take away from me. I, too, would like to thank the Minister and all the members of both committees for having a meaningful discussion on this important issue and for the agreement which also prevailed in this Chamber. So that I think we will be adopting an important amendment today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u78	Thank you very much, sir. I can close now, right? I'm looking at you who's always erasing me with bad eyes. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy (prints No. 240 and 635). I would like to ask Mr Wojciech Zubowski to present a report to the committee. We're connecting remotely. Do we have a link to your envoy? [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u79	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We haven't seen you yet. Wait a minute, sir, because we need to see you. But we recognize the voice. Oh, we see. You're welcome, sir, please. Good morning. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Joint Committees, the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at their meeting on 24 September 2020, discussed the Commission's draft law amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy, print No 240. Following the discussion, the joint committees recommend the adoption of the attached draft law. As rapporteur, I would like to add that this draft was adopted without any vote against any Member attending this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u80	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Sławomir Zawislak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Commission's draft law amending the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy, Parliamentary Printing No 240. The draft law is a positive reaction of the Committee on Petitions of the Polish Parliament to a petition sent by a citizen of our country, which the committee considered to be a legitimate petition. This is because it should be important for all of us to listen to the voice of every citizen and to refer to his conclusions, and especially to the positive reference. I would of course like to express my sincere thanks to the citizen who has decided to take this step and also to thank the members of the Committee on Petitions who have worked on it, but, of course, above all, your Marshal and the Sejm Bureau that this law is being examined. The purpose of the Act is to amend two laws, the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy, in this direction, so that these amendments adapt the references and terminology to the current legal situation indicated just in the citizens' petition. These changes result from the transformation of LOT's Polish Airlines, but also from the entry into force of three laws: the act on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities covering the subject-matter of persons performing managerial functions in state enterprises; the Act on the National Court Register; the Code of Commercial Companies law and of course repealing the Act on companies with foreign participation. It concerns the issue of amending the provisions in these companies, as I said, with the petitioner's request. These changes, as the rapporteur said, were positively approved by the members mentioned by the rapporteur to the two Sejm committees. Since the essential social and legal effect of the proposed law will be to improve the coherence and transparency of the legal system, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I ask the High Sejm to support this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I am pleased to present my position on the draft law on state-owned enterprises and the law on the municipal economy in response to the citizens' petition - which was mentioned here, and for which I thank you - brought to the Sejm. The draft law should be defined as a technical, codification project, adjusting the existing laws to the actual state of affairs. Art. Point 1 and Article 1. 2 points 1 and 2 of the draft law update the content of these laws by deleting references to the repealed Act - Commercial Code and to the register of state-owned enterprises. At present, they have been replaced by the Commercial Companies Code and the National Court Register respectively. In addition, Article 2 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 provides for the application of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 1 point 1 of the bill deletes Polish Airlines Lotnicze Lot from the Act on State Enterprises. As we all know, LOT's Polish Airlines are a company of commercial law today. Both of the amendments proposed above are amendments adjusting the content of these laws to the actual legal situation. Their adoption will not have any far-reaching legal effect. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 43 The Law on State-owned enterprises is referred to the right to commission on the profit of the company. Meanwhile, according to the article. 7 the Law of 3 March 2000 on the remuneration of persons directing certain legal entities a commission on profit to persons referred to in Article. 43 is not entitled. As a result of this article. Point 1 (3) of the draft law provides for the repeal of Article. 43 Law on State-owned enterprises. In addition, Article 1 of the Law on State-owned Enterprises is repealed. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1b relating to the repealed and non-binding law on companies with foreign participation since 2001. A little further follow-up is provided for in Article. Point 1 (2) of the proposed law. According to Art. 39 (1) (a) 1 The Act on State Enterprises in the event of cancellation of the Director shall be entitled to a six-month remuneration, and shall be entitled, in accordance with Article. The 12 acts on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities shall not exceed three months' remuneration. Consequently, the proposed law harmonises the amount of checks up to the amount of 3 months' salary. The examination of the position of the Council of Ministers as to the draft law submitted indicates that Article. The 12th Act on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities provides that a check of no more than 3 times the monthly salary may be granted, whereas the submitted project determines a rigid amount in the form of a check equal to 3 months' salary. The Civic Coalition Club therefore amends the following amendment: "In the event of an appeal, the Director shall be entitled to a briefing of no more than three times the monthly salary.' Thank you very much. I'm making an amendment to your Marshal's hand. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u84	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. Mr Wiesław Buj, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u85	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I was pleased to present on behalf of the club Leży an opinion on the draft law amending the Act on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy, print No 240. This draft law relates only to matters of order and in the intention of the applicant it is intended to make only cosmetic changes, and it is only in these two laws. This should therefore be considered a faulty approach. With regard to the amendments to the Law on State Enterprises, it would be worth considering whether the provisions of this Act should be included in the Law on the Principles for the Management of State Property. One piece of legislation should focus on sovereign property issues, e.g. in the Law on State Assets. This would be a logical consequence of the creation of a new Ministry of State Assets. In view of the existing fragmentation of numerous legal acts relating to state legal persons and agencies, it is easy to overlook the provisions that in one state entity, where payments are made from public funds, the Management Board receives six briefings and in the other three months' briefing. These entries are set out in Article. Point 1 (2) of the proposed law. To conclude, the legislative technique proposed in the project is a fragmented correction of individual issues, which causes, instead of cutting off the problem, to multiply further minor changes to the bill. Similar comments need to be made on the section of the project relating to the Municipal Economy Act. Here, too, the authors or the author of the project proposed editorial amendments relating to the amendment of the nomenclature of the current laws, while the more urgent problem seems to be the unambiguous regulation of the standards according to which municipal companies currently operate. In many cases they have ceased to carry out their own tasks and their revenues from commercial activities are higher than from activities to the owner, most often local government units. There is an enigmatic record in the article. The 10th Act, which refers to the accession to companies operating outside the public utility zone or the creation of companies engaged in activities other than public utility. There are no records relating to the situation where a municipal company deals with both public utility and other commercial activities. In addition, the provision in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 refers to unmet needs on the local market. So the question arises as to what the local market is. Is it the local market for the company's registered office or the local market where the needs are not met? Example: municipal company from municipality A carries out commercial activities for the benefit of entities from municipality B. Or maybe? Does the local market, within the meaning of the provision, refer only to a market that covers the administrative boundaries of the municipality which set up the company or not? In conclusion, the draft law submitted must be assessed as incomplete in view of the need for comprehensive legal solutions relating to the functioning of state-owned legal persons and municipal companies. The solutions designed to systematise the nomenclature of existing legislation are not faulty in themselves, but do not respond to the problem of unambiguous regulation of standards in which municipal companies and public legal entities currently operate. The project was submitted as a petition by an eligible public-interest entity. The Parliamentary Left Club will support this regulation, but I make it clear that it is Minister Sasin who should get to work and start the work of his department to match the existing right to new conditions that arise, for example, as a result of the appointment of a new ministry, the Ministry of State Assets. At the same time, I would like to thank you very much for the petition and the initiative and work to change and improve existing shortcomings in Polish legislation within state-owned enterprises and municipal companies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u86	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u87	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, is a large club right now, which brings together a number of actors, I would like to speak on the procedated law on printing No. 240 and the report on printing No. 635. It is a typical technical law, which - as the predecessors have already said - regulates, improves legal status, functioning, basically naming. We should think about where all this is coming from. We often, and at the moment - very often, change the subjection of companies, institutions, the management of wealth of the State Treasury, sometimes even several times in the course of one parliamentary term, depending on what ideas the government has. This brings great chaos in the submission of individual individuals, the wealth of the Treasury to individual ministries, the change of nomenclature. That's where all the fuss comes from. This does not change the business formula, but if we looked at it technically, we would see that it is not structured as it should be. That's why we should keep it. Of course, our club will support these solutions, because they are logical, normal, but we should avoid situations that are not coming from the legislator. It's a government initiative or even a committee. In this case - the petition committee, i.e. this problem had to be reported by someone from the company, from the Polish Airlines, or from the local government, as far as the municipal economy is concerned, and only this initiative was created. This should be regulated by law if we change the legal scope of these companies. Polish People's Party, Coalition Poland will support this project. We will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u88	Thank you very much, sir, for your support for the project. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the proposal to amend the Law on State Enterprises and the Act on Municipal Economy, I have in principle no major objections. This is a simple, cosmetic law that makes the concepts used in Polish legislation coherent. Thus, naturally, we will support this bill. But this bill doesn't change much in practice, because it's just cosmetic. In fact, we should also be touched on other topics, among others. the situation of certain companies of the Treasury or strategic areas, where indeed state control is often necessary - but only in these specific areas. Mining, one of the most important areas. After three quarters this year there is a loss of over PLN 3 billion. Don't put all this on COVID. This is also the negligence of the Minister of State Assets, which led to this lack of reorganisation of work. And what, in 2021, are we gonna hear about the closure of more mines? I'd rather not hear it. Last year, coal mines were selling tons of coal about 17 PLN. This year's average loss is 59.49. By more than 3 million t imports of coal to Poland decreased, but we further downloaded approx. 9 million tonnes of coal in 2020. And what, are we supposed to applaud that this import has decreased a little bit? At a time when there are tons of coal in mines, thousands of tons of coal, you should create such conditions that it is not profitable to draw coal from abroad, and it has just been profitable to extract it in Poland and possibly export it. Let's keep going. Polregio railway company. In the '60s and '70s. EN57 warehouses were manufactured. These warehouses continue to this day, without upgrading. I wrote to the president of the Regional Transport Company at the time, asked what about the modernizations. I got a little bit of an answer that's okay, and it's gonna get even better. Turns out you guys changed the name of the company, changed it to Polregio. So it's really cool. The company also signed 10-year contracts with voivodships. I wonder if anything's gonna change around here because the money's gonna be there. And the closest thing to my heart, the shipbuilding industry, if we can even talk about it in Poland. What you've done with people who work, among other things. In Gryphia in Świnoujście, he is crying out for vengeance to heaven. 200 people were fired, thus people cooperating with this shipyard, a total of about 1 000. people, in fact, will lose their jobs, in a situation where the yard was simply profitable. This is economic illiteracy. Such things can be done by a political scientist, but this should not be done in management positions just in the companies of the State Treasury. Now the second shipyard, closer to me, because from our neighborhood, from the Tricity, the Nauta shipyard. 730 million debt, 300 million additionally in litigation, almost 1 billion in total. The yard is in restructuring, it is not known what to do with it, debts are not repaid. These are things that need to be dealt with. If you are to enter the most important positions of colleagues, it will never be better in Poland. That's where the managers should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor with his friend from the circle of time. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u91	Yes. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We're looking at what's going on, and it's freezing us a little bit. Yesterday, the Confederation held a press conference on the shipyard in Świnoujście. My previous colleague, Mr Urbaniak, spoke here about these 200 people who were fired and about 1 000. people who lose their jobs because of it, and it was a profitable, profitable company. You had to sell it, you had to just put it on the market, some private businessman would take care of it, make money on it, people would keep their jobs, everyone else, it would grow. You should have just sold it, didn't close it, because you guys have such a fuck-up, because one of your former MPs who became president there just screwed up the job. This had to be sold on the private market, as did most companies of the Treasury. You went to the election, and you said everything was gonna be okay, 'cause all you had to do was not steal. All you have to do is not steal, because that's how you've filled yourselves in these Treasury companies, dumped friends, families, everyone's fine there, they're warm, they've got high positions with high payouts. These are the boys you should get rid of. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You should get state Treasury companies fully privatized as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u92	Thank you very much. We're starting to ask questions. I'm setting a limit to the question-- 1 minute. Here we go. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, remotely, parliamentary club of the Left. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u93	Yes, thank you very much. Of course, these changes should be made, but I have a question for the ministry whether it feels bad about the whole situation because we have an absurd situation. We have a situation which is that there are not minor changes, but simply errors in two laws. With this degree of digitization, even if the official preparing the successive laws did not see these errors, they should have been caught. However, what we are dealing with today is the next hour of the Sejm's deliberations, before the Sejm committees dealt with this project because the citizen, Sebastian Adamowicz, reported to the Committee on Petitions that they were in error laws, for example. The municipal economy law refers to the Commercial Code of 1934 and not to the Commercial Companies Code of 2001. We should not take the time of the Sejm (the bell), the committee such matters. Indeed, we should be dealing with the problems of the municipal economy in the Sejm, and these are huge, especially after the lockdown and in the current situation of the economy and local governments. We should be dealing with state-owned companies, not correcting errors that were not caught by the Minister. Praise be to Sebastian Adamowicz, who saw this and wrote to the Committee on Petitions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u94	And thank the Committee on Petitions for passing it on. Being immodest, I will say that I am cooperating with the Committee on Petitions as Vice-Marshal. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. I have the impression that Mrs Kretkowska has forgotten to ask a question, but time has flown. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Then I'll ask you two questions. Citizens are telling us what to improve in the law, and my question is: Does the government carry out such analyses? Because it should be done at government level. From time to time, an analysis of the legal situation should be carried out and there should be an elimination of all these discrepancies, because with a frequent change of law, there is no time for discussion here, for a good analysis this happens and quite often we amend the law not yet approved. Does the government do that? Because it should be done. That's my first question. And the second question is: What is the actual situation of LOT today? Because for all we know, she's dramatic. What's next with LOT? Because this law applies to Polish Airlines LOT. What's next with LOT? Even watching what's happening at our airport, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Okęc, we can see there's a drama. It practically froze. What is the situation today, Minister, with regard to LOT? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. You don't have an MP? Mrs Marta Wcisło. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u97	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We have an army of officials in ministries who have not picked up errors in the bill, a citizen has done so, for which he deserves a word of appreciation and thanks. It is an ordering project that brings the rules into line with the facts, but it also contains provisions on directors' briefings - not 6 months and 3 months. We have tabled an amendment on this. Speaking of vocations and appeals. Ladies and gentlemen, since yesterday at the Airport of Lublin, she has been appointed to the Supervisory Board of Deputy Minister Sasin's sister-in-law. I have a question for the Minister. Will your sister-in-law's appointment be linked to the fact that Lublin Airport will receive assistance and support within the 2.0 shield because it has been removed from this shield? I hope that this lady's presence will serve the airport, and it won't just be at the expense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u98	Interesting question. Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u99	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I apologize to the voters for being masked, but it's not because I join the Sejm bandits just because I've waited a long time for the Sejm Bureau to come to its senses. But, unfortunately, with common sense, I have won faith in cotton masks and other aluminum hats, and I have to participate in a forced mask ball, even though I speak only to eight Members in the hall who are within a dozen meters of me. On the other hand, we are talking about state-owned companies that are different from private companies because they cannot go bankrupt because they are based on the state budget, on citizens' taxes. They do not follow the profit and loss account because no one makes money - either the state loses or does not lose, as it loses it simply increases taxes. Therefore, the question to the Minister: Don't you think that state-owned companies should be given to private owners so as not to waste the work of hard-working people (the Bell) in these companies and that the whole society would gain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u100	Thank you very much, sir. You know, I have to comment on your words. That's what I was hoping for. I have a great request for you, so warm and friendly, please share this remark on the subject of Cortipinus with Mr Arthur Dziambor... We just shared. We just talked. ...to my very close friend, who almost got by that, among others. He didn't wear a mask, he didn't die. And once you've shared that reflection with him, think about it and think about what you're gonna say. It was Mr Dziambor who got sick when he started wearing a mask. Thank you very much. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of State Assets of Minister Andrzej Śliwka. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u101	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project submitted shall cover only changes of an ordering nature. They are not substantive in nature and are an obvious consequence of the changes made to the legal system over the past years. The effect of this amendment is to improve the coherence, transparency of the law. This is the result of the citizen's request, for which we thank him warmly. In view of the above, the Council of Ministers welcomes this Commission proposal for a law amending the law. As regards questions, I would like to inform Mr Kasprzyk that systematic analyses are being carried out on the basis of legislation and that, with subsequent amendments, these provisions are clearly systematic. As for the other questions, Mr. Marshal, if possible, I will answer them in writing. Thank you very much. Mine, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u102	It's a possibility, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, they will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020 (prints No 680 and No 721). I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I present a report to the Joint Committees on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020, seym prints No 680 and 721. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent on 16 October this year. the above draft law to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. The joint committees, after first reading and reading the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office and after considering this draft law of 29 October 2020, considered that this project accelerates and streamlines the process of resolving existing bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, which is necessary because, in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Member States of the European Union are required to remove these agreements, as these matters are already resolved by the internal rules of the European Union, which are often different from those treaties. Some of their arbitration clauses are already contrary to European Union law. Therefore, the Joint Committees: Economics and Development and Foreign Affairs request that the High Chamber approve the draft of this Act from print no. 680 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u104	Thank you very much. Come on in... Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Waldemar Olejniczak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, a draft government act on ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020, prints No 680 and 721. As the previous speaker said, at the joint meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the joint committees gave a positive opinion on this project, because it is an ordering project, a project that is needed by all investors operating in the European Union. The project concerns the provision of an investor and his investment from the State party to the agreement on the territory of the other party to the protection agreement and the possibility of redress against an international investment tribunal on the basis of arbitration clauses of the investor - the State. Let me mention that this agreement has been signed by 23 European countries. All agreements concluded between countries are no longer valid, as this will be considered by an international investment tribunal. This project is needed and I ask the High House to approve this agreement. I would also like to point out that the joint committees have given a positive opinion on the draft agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u106	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But today you're active, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club a position on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020. Its creation relates to the issue of investment treaties concluded between the Member States of the European Union, so-called. intra-EU BIT agreements that provide the investor and his investment from the State party to the agreement in the territory of the other party of the protection agreement and the possibility of redress against an international investment tribunal. Ladies and gentlemen! Such agreements were relatively beneficial before Poland entered the European Union. They provided the flow of foreign investors and were beneficial to both parties, while at the present time they are highly controversial. There were also doubts about these agreements. The European Commission takes the view that these bilateral agreements either overlap or conflict with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. This is confirmed by the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 6 March 2018 in which the TSUE stated that intra-EU BIT clauses are incompatible with European Union law as affecting the autonomy of European Union law. This judgment has given rise to the start of intra-EU BIT termination by the European Union countries. Poland participated in the work on the general solution of these agreements. The result of this work is an agreement which was concluded by 23 Member States on 5 May 2020. Because I have three minutes, I have to be quick. This agreement terminates intra-EU BIT agreements and terminates their extended validity clauses. The agreement provides that arbitration clauses in disputes between the investor and the State are contrary to the Treaties of the European Union and are therefore not applicable and cannot constitute a legal basis for arbitration proceedings. The investor shall have the right to refer the matter to the national court, on the basis of detailed rules laid down in the agreement, provided that the investor withdraws from the arbitration procedure and waives all rights and claims arising from the intra-EU BIT agreement. This solution, ladies and gentlemen, is faster and cheaper. In the explanatory memorandum [[♪ The bell ♪]] The draft ratification law indicated that now the Polish judiciary is independent and independent and provides investors with a guarantee of the protection of investments with the possibility to assert their rights in Poland. I'd really like it to be that way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u108	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Andrzej Szejna from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Court of Justice of the European Union stated in its judgment of 6 March 2018 in Achmea BV v Slovak Republic that the arbitration clauses of the investor - a State contained in intra-EU BIT agreements are incompatible with EU law as they affect the autonomy of European Union law. In accordance with this judgment, the Member States of the European Union are required to remove these agreements, including extended clauses, from the legal market in order to guarantee legal certainty. The aim of the Agreement is to align the legal situation with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the case of Achmea. These agreements were also challenged by the European Commission due to their non-compliance with European Union law. The European Commission has opened formal proceedings against Austria, the Netherlands, Slovakia, Sweden, Romania, Finland and the United Kingdom on the non-compliance of these agreements. On the other hand, she conducted informal proceedings against other Member States, including the Republic of Poland. EU Pilot, and is currently considering opening formal proceedings. Within the framework of the EU Pilot, the European Commission raises serious concerns that intra-EU BIT agreements as such, as well as their individual provisions, overlap or may conflict with the provisions of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. A commitment to an agreement should not have political consequences. All the Member States of the European Union, which are parties to these agreements, have been invited by the European Commission to conclude these agreements. The agreement will have no negative social impact and can be welcomed due to public criticism in the Republic of Poland of intra-EU BIT agreements and international investment arbitrage based on them. The conclusion of an agreement should not affect economic relations between the Republic of Poland and other Member States of the European Union. Intra-EU BIT agreements to which the Republic of Poland is party were concluded when the Republic of Poland was not a member of the European Union. Of course, the question arises as to whether insufficient access to independent judiciary in Poland will give foreign investors a guarantee of protecting investment with the possibility to enforce their rights on a judicial basis. Such guarantees are provided by Polish investors in other markets, in other Member States of the European Union. The Ministry of Development noted only three cases of Polish investors taking advantage of the protection provided for by these agreements against international arbitration tribunals. The conclusion of an agreement on the termination of intra-EU BIT agreements or the extended validity clauses of contracts already terminated will not violate the Polish legal order and will lead to the elimination of the non-compliance of these agreements and the extended validity clauses with European Union law. I therefore request that this agreement and the proposal of the Committee on Foreign Affairs be accepted on behalf of the Left Club. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u110	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to say that we will support this project because it meets the expectations, it is a positive solution, we are taking a step forward. It's already working. We shouldn't... In addition, 23 European countries supported this solution. But I'm going somewhere else. The formulas and statements contained in the justification for this and today's discussion show the importance of the functioning of the legal system in a given country, the recognition of judgments. Because it's important. If businesses are to assert their rights on our domestic market, on the European market, and there are certainly such situations, it should be the recognition of the law. And what rule of law means. Because at this stage of the discussion everyone says: what is this rule of law? This is an example of the rule of law. That is to say, the judgments that occur in a given country are recognised in all other European countries. This guarantees the safety of our entrepreneurs. The project is clear, clear, simple, which is why on behalf of the club I declare his support. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u112	Thank you very much, sir. Since I see that you care about this, I would like to say that the Member represents the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. We're getting used to the new name. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we're coming in... The name is wide. There you go, we're in the area of questioning. The question is a minute. Here we go. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. There you go. There isn't. In that case, the person who is definitely Mrs Marta Wcisło. One last time. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An extremely important bill, a project on ratification of bilateral agreements, important for Poland, important for investors. But a project important in the context of what is today and what will be in the future, which gives the opportunity to shorten the legal path in case of disputes the state-investor. Unfortunately not in Poland. We have known for a long time and from various directions signals that the rule of law in Poland does not look good. The European Commission, citizens, issued a devastating opinion related to the so-called. reform of the justice system, which is de facto a deformity. My question is, aren't these double standards? Because I am afraid that until the end of the PiS government, there will be no investors on the horizon of our country who will (the bell) freely invest in our country, bearing in mind that politicians are at the forefront of justice. Thank you. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u114	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Andrzej Shejna, the Left Club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to ask you a question that wasn't part of my club speech, that is. Observing what is happening today, i.e. these wretched negotiations and threats of veto, it is a reduction in trust in Poland as a rule of law, it is a decrease in confidence in the Polish justice system, I am glad that you are basing the state - and it is right - on the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but why do you not respect other judgments of the Court of Justice, such as those concerning the Chamber of Disciplinary Supreme Court? Do you not realize that today foreign investors, who will be devoted to disputes and will not be able to transfer this dispute to the level of international arbitration, but only to the level of the Polish judiciary, will have doubts as to whether they will invest in Poland and whether they will feel safe in Poland? Do you realize that everything that you are doing today, what is happening in front of our eyes, is harmful to foreign investments (the bell) in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u116	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Mr Piotr Wawrzyk to refer to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say first of all that we have no indication that foreign investors have limited confidence in the Polish judiciary and therefore have reservations about the need to refer their cases to Polish courts, first of all. Secondly, I would like to point out that this agreement serves precisely to ensure that, regardless of national procedures, any investment dispute can be brought under the case law of the EU courts, possibly the Court of Justice of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u118	Thank you very much. Does Minister Tchórzewski want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! With regard to the agreement under discussion today, it should be stressed that the Court of Justice of the European Union has found arbitration clauses resulting from bilateral agreements between countries to be incompatible with European Union law with retroactive effect. In the case of the new Member States, i.e. Poland, the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union has resulted since Poland joined the European Union. This judgment results in an investor, a State previously conducted on the basis of bilateral agreements, i.e. intra-EU BIT agreements, whose validity ends the agreement resulting from the Act. This agreement also results in all post-trial proceedings, i.e. of the complaints for the cancellation of earlier arbitration judgments by the investor - the State, therefore this cannot be applied after the date of our accession to the European Union. We are therefore looking forward to quite a great deal of order in this area, and this agreement is therefore very important, as it ends the existing bilateral agreements without having to - which is very important - expressing them. The agreement is terminated and it is therefore important to ratify this agreement as soon as possible. I therefore very much thank all Members of the Government and the Government for their smooth conduct over the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u120	I thank the rapporteur very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the declaration of the provisional agreement in trade and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofja on 29 April 1925 (prints No 688 and 726). I ask Mr Arthur Łącki to present a report to the committee. The Member will be able to communicate with us in remote mode. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u121	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can hear me, okay? Yes. High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the declaration of the provisional agreement in trade and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofja on 29 April 1925, print No 688. The international agreement, which is the provisional agreement on trade and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria, was concluded on 29 April 1925 and entered into force on 12 February 1927, following the exchange of instruments of ratification by the parties to the agreement. The purpose of the agreement, like other similar international agreements, was to create a framework for the development and strengthening of trade cooperation between its signatories. In accordance with the protocol signed on 31 May 2007 between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the review of bilateral agreements, Journal of the Laws of 2014 item. 1044 and item. 1045, the Agreement has remained in force with the exception of Article. 1.10 and Article. 16 and 17. Consequently, only Article shall remain in force. 11.15 dealing with trade and fisheries issues and Article. 18 regulating e.g. the validity and termination of the agreement. However, the remaining provisions are largely historical in nature and are governed by other legal acts. The article may serve as an example in this respect. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 arrangements for the issue of measurement certificates according to the Moors method derived from the British regulations of the mid-19th century. This method for determining the tonnage of ships is currently not used, and its application was abandoned on 18 July 1982, i.e. on the date of entry into force of the International Convention on the Measurement of Ships' Capacity of 1969 Let me also quote in full Article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 agreements: The agreement is concluded for one year. However, unless pronounced after the expiry of that period, it shall be extended by silent consent for an unlimited period and may be pronounced at any time. In the event of termination, it shall remain in force for a further three months from the date on which one of the High Contracting Parties informs the other of its intention to repeal its action. Today, after 100 years, as one of the High Contracting Parties, we are taking another step towards the termination of this agreement signed on behalf of the Polish party by His Excellency Dr. Tadeusz Stanisław Grabowski, Member of the Extraordinary and Minister of Plenipotentiary in Sofia. For me, the work on this law has been an opportunity to realise the importance and sustainability of Parliament's law, the reliability and diligence that we, Members, should work on the laws we have taken and the responsibility we bear before history. Although we do not know whether many of the laws adopted in the Sprinter process by the 9th Sejm will remain current for almost 100 years, or whether the 59th-term Members will have an opportunity to... [[Disruption of reception]] High Izbo! The termination of the agreement will allow to remove from the Polish legal system an act of international law which is incompatible with European Union law and which has not been applied for a long time. Issues covered by the Agreement after its termination will be governed by European Union law and other international agreements to which the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Bulgaria are parties. This will not result in negative social, economic, financial or political impacts. For the reasons set out above, the termination of the agreement should be considered to be fully justified. The Agreement does not currently pursue the purpose of its conclusion, is not applied in relations between the parties and is incompatible with European Union law. In view of the above, on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, I recommend the adoption of a law to the High House. The joint committees adopted a government bill by acclamation. If the marshal will allow me, I would like to say the last sentence: not for the veto, for the Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u122	Thank you very much, sir. We now proceed to the club appearances. I'm opening a discussion. Jerzy Materna, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the government's draft law on the declaration of the provisional agreement in commercial and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofji on 29 April 1925, prints No 688 and 726. The Joint Committees on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and Foreign Affairs considered the bill on 3 November and adopted a draft law without objection. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! In accordance with the protocol signed on 31 May 2007 between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the revision of bilateral agreements, the Agreement has maintained its validity, with the exception of Article. 1.10 and Article. 16. and Article 16 17. Consequently, only Article shall remain in force. 11.15, dealing with matters relating to trade and fisheries, and Article. 18, which regulates e.g. the validity and termination of the agreement. Other articles that I have mentioned are largely historical and are governed by other international law acts, such as: the law of the European Union or the International Maritime Organisation. The termination of the agreement will have no negative social, economic, financial or political impact. Its termination will allow for the removal from the Polish legal system of an act of international law which is incompatible with European Union law. In accordance with the aforementioned Article. 18 agreements may be terminated at any time. If the agreement is terminated, it shall remain in force for 3 months from the date on which one of the parties to the agreement informs the other of its intention to terminate. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and will vote in favour of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u124	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Arkadiusz Carrot. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u125	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This bill is a reference to Polish history. It has to be admitted that it is a document that is almost 100 years old, and when you look at his records, the 1925 contract, there will be great names here. And also judging even after it was approved a year later - here you can find names such as Mościcki, Piłsudski or Zaleski, so it is a piece of Polish history. This international agreement, which is the provisional agreement on commercial and navigational matters, was signed in 1925. Of course, its aim was to create a framework for the development and strengthening of trade cooperation between the countries that signed the agreement. It introduced the so-called rule. the highest preference for natural and legal persons who come from the country of the agreement and conduct commercial, industrial or shipping activities in the territory of the other country. Many years later, in 2007, a protocol was signed between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the review of bilateral agreements. This agreement has remained in force only in the part regulating trade and fisheries issues. The remaining provisions are largely historic and are now governed by other acts of international law, both by European Union law and by international agreements, which concern maritime issues and are concluded under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation. Some of these assumptions, some of the provisions of these agreements are now incompatible with European Union law, so the termination of this agreement is fully justified. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I present an opinion on the support of this bill. I recommend to all of you interested in history to read these records, because it is a very interesting, almost 100-year-old document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u126	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Szejna will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The international agreement, which is the provisional agreement on trade and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria, is without a shadow of doubt valuable, but already a relic of international law and the art of diplomacy. This Agreement was concluded on 29 April 1925. To remind you in the context of curiosity, especially for Members of the Right: on 26 March 1925 the Sejm also ratified the concordat with the Holy See and, of course, the Left, the Polish Socialist Party, voted against. Pursuant to the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the revision of bilateral agreements, signed on 31 May 2007. The agreements have ceased to apply. The agreement therefore applies in a small part, because it concerns Article. 11 and 15 and Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing The existing provisions of the Agreement are to a large extent historic in nature and the issues contained therein are governed by other acts of international law - by European Union law and by international agreements on maritime matters concluded within the framework of the activities of the International Maritime Organisation. This does not change the fact that some of the rules in force are incompatible with European Union law, inter alia. Article 2 Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 fisheries agreements. As we know, the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union includes fisheries in areas of shared competence between the European Union and the Member States, and the conservation of marine biological resources under the Common Fisheries Policy falls within the exclusive competence of the European Union. The Member States of the European Union cannot therefore reserve for themselves the rights to use fisheries resources which are common ownership. Furthermore, this Article infringes the freedom to provide services in maritime transport laid down in European Union law. The termination of the agreement will allow to remove from the Polish legal system an act of international law which is incompatible with European Union law and which has not been applied for a long time. The legal situation after the termination of the agreement will not change because, as I have already mentioned, matters covered by the Agreement will be governed by European Union law and other international agreements to which the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Bulgaria are parties. The Left Parliamentary Club will, of course, support the bill on the declaration of the provisional agreement in trade and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofia on 29 April 1925. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u128	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The famous English Foreign Minister and Prime Minister Lord Palmerston once said: Britain has no eternal enemies and unchanging friends, but it has eternal and unchanging interests and we will follow these interests. Poland was not as happy as the United Kingdom, because for 200 years of history we did not have an independent foreign policy in connection with the period of partitions, the period of World War II and the Soviet domination for several decades in Poland. We were only 20 years happy when our foreign policy was sovereign. It is with great pleasure that I have learned that we have so far been bound by the Makeshift Agreement on trade matters signed between the President of the Republic of Poland and the King of the Bulgarians. It is a unique document because it has almost 100 years of history. It is a thing, for Polish conditions, that we have six articles of this agreement, which so far is important. This is the reason for the history of Polish diplomacy very interesting. I was very moved to see that this document was ratified by President Mościcki, Prime Minister Piłsudski and Foreign Minister August Zaleski. It is clear that the Polish People's Party, the Coalition of Poland, agrees that this is a provisional agreement to express, because it is a document of a purely historical nature at the moment and should therefore no longer apply. It is contrary to EU law. Nevertheless, I am very pleased that we had the opportunity to lean on this in the combined committees of foreign affairs and maritime affairs. To be honest, no member of any group has raised any objections or asked questions about this. Therefore, the unity in the room where the two committees were sitting was complete. I assume that's the way it's gonna be in the Parliament now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u130	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three things worth paying attention to in the case of this document. The first is a historical remark. Of course, Mr Bartoszewski is right about who has ratified, but who has negotiated this treaty is an agreement? First of all, the government of Władysław Grabski, but earlier government, including others. for 7 months in office of Minister of Foreign Affairs, Count Maurica Zamoyski. So the politicians of National Democracy negotiated this document. On the other hand, in the case of Polish-Bulgarian relations or in general Polish relations with the Balkans of that period, the role of Dr. Tadeusz Grabowski, then Polish Member of Sofia, in Bulgaria is unforgettable. It is worth paying attention to this historical aspect, ladies and gentlemen, because the Polish press office in Bulgaria started operating already in 1915, 3 years before regaining independence, 4 years before the formation of Polish diplomacy in its crystallized form, 4 years before the Congress in Versailles. It was an amazing activity, affecting not only Bulgaria, but also the entire Balkans. This Balkan direction was not neglected at that time, and very well, and this penetrating activity of a prominent professor and diplomat is especially unforgettable here. Ladies and gentlemen! Two more aspects that are worth paying attention to on this occasion. The first aspect is the southern direction, the Balkan direction, quite on the stepmother's side treated after 1989 by subsequent Polish governments and teams. The fact that Polish politics takes place mainly on the East-West power line. Yeah, that's right. It was true in the Second Republic and it is true today that our nodal interests take place on this line. But we must not neglect this region where we can pursue our interests and have a lot of kindness and a lot of friends who can potentially cooperate with us. Here I see a lot of catching up to do when it comes to Polish diplomacy. Finally, the last aspect. Ladies and gentlemen, this agreement, which is already in history today after nearly 100 years - but also fresher examples, such as the example of the UK - shows us how important it is that the sovereign state does not neglect having diplomatic personnel capable of negotiating economic agreements, highly competent staff who will be able to take care of the economic interests of the state on the international stage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u132	Thank you very much, sir. Two Members joined the questions. If there are no more calls, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to ask a question. Absent. So, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u133	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are many historical digressions here. Of course, I mentioned the ratification of the concordat with the Holy See against the Left in 1925. I will also remind you that at that time the government of Prime Minister Grabski also fell. Then you were Prime Minister Skrzyński, then you were Prime Minister Witos. Of course, this is also very important in the history of the Republic of Poland summer, which later showed that Poland's place is in Europe. This is where we belong. That's where we're supposed to be. We have also defended Europe in a sense against the Soviet storm, we have defended our place, our roots, our history, our fresh independence. My question is this: aren't you drawing conclusions about your policy today, which consists in the isolation of Poland in Europe, in isolation? And second question: Why have we waited so long to bring Polish law and this agreement into line with European law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u134	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to speak, to refer to the subject and to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the Members' questions, first of all, I would like to point out that we have no sense of isolation. Therefore, I do not see any reason to further develop this subject. We have very close cooperation with many European and non-European countries. Transatlantic relationships are very good, too. But why have we waited so long for ratification? Well, earlier they ruled various political options, ruled the Civic Platform, ruled the Polish People's Party, ruled the Left. And we in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have launched a programme to review international agreements, which is precisely, for example, for these reasons, they should be cancelled, they should be terminated. This project we're talking about today is part of this program. I would therefore like to inform you that if there are such new agreements, which, for precisely these reasons, should not be in force or should take place in the Polish legal order, we will gradually present to the High House the relevant laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask Mr. Mark Grybarczyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, to refer, if necessary. Well, in that case, did the draftsman of the committee... We know it's not. I therefore close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws (print No 808). I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the main geologist of the country, the representative of the government for the the raw material policy of Mr Piotr Grandpa to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u137	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! I would like to present to you a draft law amending the Energy Law and some other laws, which culminates several years of work on smart metering in energy and improving the functioning of national energy markets. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act is an essential starting point for the transformation of the energy sector based, among others. on its digitalization, smart grids, smart remote reading meters. The Act will enable the safe integration of renewable energy sources into the system and the use of energy in the sector, including increased flexibility of the energy system, as well as the exploitation of the potential of active consumers. The aim of the project is to provide a framework for the operation of the smart metering system in energy by installing smart meters in at least 80% of customers by 2028, establishing an energy market information operator responsible for the operation of the collecting and processing system and measuring data from these installed meters, so-called. a central energy market information system. PSE SA will operate as an operator and the system will operate in three years' time. The project also includes comprehensive solutions for removing the legal barrier to the development of energy storage, enabling further development of distributed energy, so-called. Prosumer energy, and RES, increasing consumer protection in the energy and gas markets, including by prohibiting the conclusion of contracts through energy and gas sellers in the form of acquisitions, so-called. door-to-door, facilities for the activities of energy companies, e.g. the introduction of closed distribution systems and solutions for traction vehicles, and the improvement of control of the energy market, gas fuels, liquid fuels by a broad reinforcement of URE surveillance. The adoption of this law by the Sejm will be a milestone for the development of the Polish energy future. I'm gonna motion and I'm gonna ask you very kindly to join me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. We now begin to present the positions of the parliamentary clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Witold Czarnecki will be the first to speak and will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law amending the Energy Law and some other laws, Parliamentary Printing No. 808. In the explanatory memorandum of the bill we read that the amendments cover 20 areas covered by the current act of the law. The bill discussed adapts the Polish law to the law in force in the European Union. In the current Polish law there is no provisions that would allow correctly and effectively to benefit from Regulation No 2015/1222 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 July 2015 laying down guidelines on allocation, capacity and congestion management. In addition, according to this draft law, the President of the Energy Regulatory Office will be the competent authority to recognise the qualifications of persons working in equipment, installations and energy networks. All certificates shall expire 5 years after issue. The Act introduces provisions on the basis of which the President of the Energy Regulatory Office will be able to withdraw the concession in the event that the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection has issued a decision to the energy trader to recognise the practice of the undertaking's activities as affecting the collective interests of consumers. The draft law leads to the implementation of the costs incurred by the owners of vehicles giving electricity to the overhead contact line following their braking, which reflects the actual energy consumption. The bill introduces comprehensive solutions for the operation and development of energy storage, and improves the functioning of smart metering systems, as the Minister said, in the electricity grid by introducing household billing so that they are accounted for for by electricity actually used and not forecasted. The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the Government's draft law on amending the Energy Law and recommends that further work be directed to the version which has been handed to ladies and gentlemen in Parliament's printing No 808. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u140	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's been a very rough night. Yesterday at an hour. 21 We have learned that we are to study 1429 pages so that we can present the report today. Such laws are being developed at least six months in parliaments which respect the legislative process. The bill was completed, the consultation was completed in July 2018, and I do not understand why a year and a half was waiting for the bill to be sent to the Sejm and to be discussed here. In this law we are dealing with interesting, directionally correct solutions. Just once more: you can only be surprised at this pace, because in a moment we will probably proceed on the committee and it will soon turn out that we will miss a comma or we will not see anything, or some famous journals will appear and no one will notice it. You can't do that. But what's not in the bill? We've been waiting for the Energy Law for a long time. There is no repeal of the 10H rule in front of the windmills. There is no transfer of responsibility for security of supply to OSD and e.g. to local markets or local balancing. There's no clustering. There is no collective and virtual prosumer. That's what we're waiting for. I hope it shows up in a minute. The controversy brought about by this law is the requirements of large safeguards for trading companies hindering the competitive development of subsequent trading companies, because the blockade will be insurance-free. The central system of data processing by the energy market information operator is controversial - about this in a moment. It is also a matter of too much detailing some of the provisions, the law is of the heavy type, not of light type. Interesting is the definition e.g. a hybrid RES installation that will start in auctions in its category, but energy stores within this definition should be owned by those who start and could be contracted. They're little things, but they're very important. And there can be many, many, many things like that. There are 18 changes, among others. There are those that... These are interesting issues of closed distribution systems or the organisation of the operation of energy warehouses, from definition by exemption from storage tariffs, etc. This is a comprehensive regulation and we agree with this direction. With regard to making the rules governing energy policy more flexible, preventing fraud, we agree, of course, only need to debate. Basically, the cloud of this law is smart metering, a smart meter - a component of an intelligent power grid. As far as two-way real-time communication is concerned, consumption information is being sent and the question arises as to the time of this transmission to the central energy market information system, whether it's seconds or minutes. Data processing will be the responsibility of the operator of energy market information with PSE. Such systems shall be centralised or decentralised. I do not know - and it is a pity that there is no debate - it seems to me that decentralised systems and the emergence of competitive operators can rather contribute to making it more user-friendly. Meanwhile, here data aggregation will be huge and will be in one hand. It is all the more surprising at this point that the Act was not consulted with the President of the Office of Personal Data. After all, on the basis of aggregated data you will be able to create a map of our behaviors, rhythms of the day, etc. How will this data be secured? Why didn't the president of the office take the position here? Perhaps in the debate, in the age of big date, we are less sensitive to it, but we cannot leave it like this. The issue of meters with 80% of customers in 2028 The question arises as to what the awareness-raising action will be like. Will this matter be our right or our duty? What about poor audiences who can't afford this meter? Will they get it? The point is to counteract energy poverty, because whoever doesn't have that counter will necessarily have more expensive energy. And an awareness-raising action is needed because, as a society, we can't even read energy accounts, let alone do it in the case of a counter that will give us some data, but will not suggest it, but will require an active attitude from us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is necessary in order to achieve the essential objectives of this law, namely to reduce the peak burden so that we consume this energy not at the summit, but at other time intervals to reduce this peak. You could talk a lot about this bill because it's worth it. Of course, we are in favour of this bill, and we will be happy to work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u142	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Dariusz Wieczorek to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, yesterday's document came in, which has 1500 pages, and today we are already debating it. But of course, there's nothing to complain about and complain about, because energy is the nucleus. Polish economy and without energy none of us can function. It is only a question of how it happened that for 10 years we have not implemented the EU directives that have appeared since 2009, and we are only doing it today, as it is happening, that this law waited 2 years before it was at the meeting of the Polish Parliament. Probably this is all about the fact that the rulers have absolutely no vision for the development of Polish energy. I think that we have slept through these historic changes that are taking place in Europe and in the world, we have slept through the moment when we had to decide to go away from coal, we have slept through the moment of energy restructuring, and today our energy companies have huge financial problems, and because in their structure they have inefficient mines, inefficient plants, are actually experiencing financial problems. In addition, we are introducing a power market law that will result in a 15% increase in energy prices in 2021. No energy policy plan until 2040 - another document somewhere in the freezer. There is indeed a big problem with that. And at this point, the Energy and Energy Law Act comes into force. The question is whether this law was really dealt with from the beginning to the end in such a way that there is agreement and consensus, above all, of those in the energy sector concerning the records that appear there. Of course, there are some good provisions on really going into new technologies, so it is about launching energy storage, measuring medium-voltage stations and, of course, measuring customers. The question is whether all of this has been calculated from start to finish. Because the truth is that as far as the whole process is concerned, all the studies that have been carried out since 2012 are talking about a cost of PLN 10 billion. If we're talking about these days, and we're talking about those costs that are bigger, it's probably more cost. Just so we're clear, the energy industry won't pay for it because the energy industry doesn't have any money. Therefore, let us also be clear that the final recipient will pay for this, i.e. for the introduction of these smart meters, the final customer will pay for it. There is also a question of how this information will be used, how it will be used for the benefit of the energy market, because this is the most important issue. The following question comes to mind. Already today energy companies have introduced such pilot solutions in some places, several tens of thousands of such counters are established. The question is: Does this law take into account these experiences? Because we're not just talking about the numerator itself, which has some functionality, but we're also talking about the entire IT system that's gonna support all this information. The question arises: Is it true that these measures that have already been spent have not been thrown into the mud? Will this bill allow these expenditures to be used as well? The question arises: What will be the cost of the central information system for the energy market? The question is: How and when can this be created, what will the cost be? Because it's gonna have to happen again in the distribution companies' or transmission companies' tariffs. The law is, of course, absolutely good in terms of direction, but it really requires a very serious discussion and debate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] However, I would like to ask that we, as Members, have more time to discuss this law with the energy industry at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mieczysław Kasprzak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives - a long name, but as I said before, it will be even longer - I would like to say and confirm that it is indeed a law from a group of heavy laws, maybe not because it is extensive, but the issue is important, difficult, complicated, requiring many solutions that bring this innovation. You should be glad - because some complain that the bill did not come into effect until last night - that the bill had come into effect because it might not affect it. Knowing energy behaviour, for many years we observe that good solutions are blocked. Speaking of energy, we are still talking about the transition to modern energy sources, green energy, renewable energy, future energy. This is what the Polish People's Party has been talking about for many years and we are demanding good solutions here. Unfortunately, we have delays in this regard. This law is an expected law, because smart metering solutions, which should already be introduced, are needed. This gives us the opportunity to save energy, because we can also - and that is the goal - reduce emissions, respect the environment, respect the atmosphere. But it has to be clear, transparent. So far, it's gone. I don't think any of the Poles feel that the state is moving towards saving energy by its citizens. This billing system we have right now, and the availability of this information is so complicated that no one is able to assess how much energy it consumes. It's got to be some professional, somebody who's going into it, but the average Pole can't figure it out. There are no mechanisms to either turn off the device at a given time or increase energy consumption. There is no system that would show the Pole how to save on energy, even at the price of energy, because this energy can be valued differently at different hours at different times of the day. This is very important, this is very important, and it is precisely through this intelligent instrumentation that we should aim to do so. But it can't be like right now in the counters that there are dozens of data. And now a horse with a row of those who can analyze it all. Today, in the age of smartphones, when we have a number of possibilities to access different knowledge, control devices in different places, we cannot read what is happening in our home in terms of electricity. This should be available and in this direction we should go so that at any time citizens can see how to control their devices. Modern technologies, in terms of energy collection, are also a huge step forward in this area. We should be heading in this direction to get into these modern technologies and not be afraid of it. Because we often fear it, the world escapes us. As I said before, it is a difficult law and these solutions are difficult, because modernity, innovation always brings some resistance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But today, with these changes that come, especially young generations, I think they expect that in terms of climate, in terms of energy saving, this possibility to have a direct impact, because this is the direct impact of the citizen on what he can do in terms of electricity. Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, and more broadly: The Polish Coalition will want to work actively in this area, because these are important solutions, important proposals, expected by the energy system, but also by Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u146	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Presented regulation of course has its advantages, in many areas simplifies access, simplifies the rules on which it will take place For example, a reading without a physical inkasenta presence simplifies the issue of consumers who will be accounted for with electricity according to actual consumption and not according to forecasts. A lot of the advantages of this law could be mentioned here. Indeed, the way she's treated is as bad as ever. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, there are more important things at present. Tomorrow at the EU summit, one of the themes will be the fight against climate warming once again. The proposal to reduce CO2 by 55% by 2030 is being discussed. Ladies and gentlemen! Current regulations, currently adopted, current capitulation of 40% is a very dangerous phenomenon for the Polish economy. It hits our energy industry directly, it hits our energy-intensive industry. These are proposals which should never be accepted by Poland. The European Green Character is a hit to the core itself Polish energy and Polish energy-intensive industry. You have to be aware of that. In our energy environment, it's just a utopia. It is a harmful utopia driven primarily by French and German lobbies. And there is no other way out of this mat, which is still to be tightened up by Brussels decision-makers and Commissioners, than to be excluded from the EU, and de facto Brussels, Berlin, Brussels-Berlin climate policy. There's no other way. We just have to buy a veto because it's going to destroy our industry and our energy. And also because of the cost of this process that we already bear, it will not allow us to make a meaningful energy transformation. And this sensible energy transformation, ladies and gentlemen, is a gradual, not as it is today, through mass extinction of mines, but a gradual reduction in the share of coal energy. Point one. Point two. The rapid construction of nuclear power. It's just how to build quickly, since it's been five years of this government, it's been 25 years of previous governments, and it's been no matter what. I mean, you're still talking, you're still running, you're deliberating. It's been five years, that's the facts. It's been five years, that's the facts, and today there's no alternative to fossil fuels, coal, gas, oil, other than nuclear energy. Moreover, even worse, the most advanced talks are with the United States. We should not base our cooperation on nuclear energy with any major power with different interests in different parts of the world. We should discuss with South Korea, discuss with France, which is not a superpower about such interests and influences as the United States. We can't get addicted. We can't be gas-independent from the Russian Federation, which is right... It is necessary to diversify the supply of gas from the northern direction, from Norway, from the United States, from Russia, from the Persian Gulf. Yeah, it should be diversified, and that's where we're going, thank God. But you can't in nuclear power now translate a vajcha into another superpower and become so deeply addicted to the military already, we already have a very deep military dependence. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also about the sensible development of renewable energy sources, but this development is also to be gradual; it is not about some utopia that the Left says it will be 2030. These are ridiculous things, ridiculous amounts. It is not only the EU that aims to raise electricity prices. From 1 January the power charge shall enter into force, which means a higher monthly electricity bill for each household by around 10%. Do Poles realize this? We, as the Confederation, demand a clear, firm state energy policy, a state energy policy plan based on these three pillars: firstly, a gradual reduction in the share of coal, but rational, secondly, also rational, an increase in the share of renewable energy, thirdly, a radical and rapid transition to a meaningful nuclear programme and, above all, a declaration of the European Union's climate package, because with it our energy-intensive industry will not go far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u148	Thank you very much, sir. Thirteen Members joined the questions. Would anyone else like to join the list? If not, I close it and set the time to ask questions for one minute. Ms Anita Sowińska, Lewińska, will ask you as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u149	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Mr Winnicki, it is harmful to you and to the climateists, and to the flats, that is that. This is a long-awaited bill that completely changes the energy system... Anything on the subject, my fellow Member? ...and allows the system to be based on renewable energy sources. Smart meters are a key element of this system. If a well-thought-out system of dynamic energy prices is put in place, it will allow us to store energy when it is too much, we will be able to store energy when it is very cheap. And therefore, I have questions for the Minister. The Minister said he was planning on replacing 80%. meters by 2026 if I understand correctly. My first question is this: How many smart meters are already installed, percentage of households, and how many numbers are you going to list? And what are the sources of funding, whether these costs will be borne by operators, will there be funds from the European Union, or are the funds from the state budget also in this? And my last question is: What is the procedure for selecting the President of the URE? Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, the corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u150	Yes, sir, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! I don't think you understand reality. The situation is this: climate change, some of which are certainly also a consequence of human action. Think about what you're saying. As far as carbon dioxide is concerned, we as issuers, we in Poland, are less than 1% on a global scale. The European Union as a whole, Europe as a whole, is 10%. on a global scale. The biggest growth in carbon dioxide is not in Europe, here we have stability or reduction, the biggest growth is in developing countries. Even if the entire European Union to zero eliminates carbon dioxide emissions, which is, of course, a utopia, this will not change the situation at all when it comes to climate in the world. The only systemic solution for global climate is the massive spread of nuclear technologies. This is the only thing that is in the state of developing countries, having huge leaps of demand (the bell) on energy to give this energy, while without causing emissions. And the state lives in some kind of utopia, and since 1917 the state has lived and implemented this, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u152	The question will now be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u153	Yes, thank you. We actually got the act late at night, actually 1429 pages, but to the point. I would like to join the comments and inquiries made by the ClientEarth Foundation to this law and ask why the legislator merely selectively refers in the explanatory memorandum to the new energy package... Can we ask you, Mrs... Yes? There you go. Can I... Do you want me to start over or... Proceed. Why the legislator merely makes a selective reference in the explanatory memorandum to the new energy package of the European Union, so-called. Winter package, it's called. clean energy for all Europeans, going essentially against the main trends in this package of changes, and these main trends are the consumer's location at the heart of the energy market and the transition to a zero-carbon energy system? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There we refer to Directive 2009/72/EC, which is the basis for both the European Union's common energy market and our Energy Law. Why, then, are there no changes in the pricing rules in this project taken into account in order to allow the introduction of demand management mechanisms by energy consumers? Why is there no clear indication that energy policy is being pursued for and in the interests of this energy consumer? It is good that we rely on the justification for reducing CO emissions One last question. Why not use the full potential of these smart meters, because the timetable proposed in this law assumes a 7-year delay in relation to the requirements of this directive, which I mentioned at the beginning? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u154	Thank you, Member. The question will now be asked by Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u155	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Speaking on behalf of the Polish Coalition, I wanted to make a declaration here. However, we will be in favour of green energy, renewable energy. I have questions, though. We're talking about big things here, modern technologies, but today the problem is elsewhere. The problem is in the power grids. Today, many power grids are no longer able to transmit electricity, it's blocking itself. As many prosumers installed their own photovoltaic devices on their roofs, today the networks are blocking. So my question is, will these 40-, 50-year-old networks be renovated? What funds will the State Treasury, state Treasury companies allocate to the renovation of energy networks? Because it's not gonna go on like this, it's not gonna go on. Where are they renovated (The Bell) which companies renovate, introduce modernizations of energy networks? And the other thing, Mr. Marshal, is for you. Will there be a proceded project that has been waiting for a long time to be considered as regards the power market? The coalition of Poland applied for a year to postpone the entry into force of this law on charges, because today, in a pandemic era, we cannot raise the price of electricity by 15%. Will this project be processed in the near future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir. I promise I will ask that at the next meeting of the Sejm Bureau. And I would like to ask my fellow Members, as one of our fellow Members asks a question, just to quiet these conversations a little bit. I now ask Mr Darius Kurzawa. Unless remotely. No. Then the question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition. And we will all listen carefully to the question that you are asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u157	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the expected law in many records is somewhat difficult and controversial, while many of the obligations under this law, the actions you present, rest on the URE President of URE. I would like to ask: Have you consulted the opinion of the President of the URE concerning his tasks as enshrined in this draft law and how much resources must be allocated to this office so that the entire machine involved in the implementation of this law will work effectively? Of course, many of the data we collect under this law also concerns the President of the Office for Personal Data Protection. After all, the central data processing system is a powerful machine that will collect the data of all who will participate in this system. And basic question: How does the President of the Data Protection Office also say about this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Personal? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u158	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question. There isn't. It is now Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak who will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! 49 entities were consulted - the fact that 1,5 years ago. But please say: Have all the comments of these entities been taken into account and if not, what was the disparate protocol? What was the subject of the dispute between the Ministry and, for example, individual companies, energy companies? Next case. What knowledge does the Ministry have about fraud that has been done by signing agreements with trading companies that have been pretending to be publicly known companies, such as Energa, Enea, etc.? Because you're introducing into the bill the fact that we're going to have to sign contracts at the company's premises now. I know we really have a problem with that. And a very important thing, please also say: What has she been like so far? the scale of this estimate (the bell) to enter electricity consumption accounts? For they were predicted, and later many people faced such a situation that suddenly there came an equalization bill and it was often about several thousand zlotys, and when a man - I had such cases and people came to me with intervention - he addressed the company of the operator, it was referred to the so-called. A tree, or tree, was not explained to him what it was all about, that he suddenly used so much energy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u160	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Wojciech Saluga to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u161	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is an expected change in the Energy Law, a very extensive, many issues raised. But we also need to tell each other what kind of environment it is happening - we have one of the higher electricity rates in Europe, energy-intensive companies do not simply produce with this price of electricity and cut production, we have imports of coal from abroad, energy networks are unable to transmit the electricity that we produce, we have imports of energy also record, and finally mining is closed because of the non-profitability of production, but also the insolvent production of electricity from coal. So there are a lot of questions. I just wanted to ask you one thing now. It is about delaying the verification of the measuring connections in relation to COVID. Is this the law, and it's just that these connections will be legal from then on, they'll work legally (the bell) or will the courts be able to prosecute if someone doesn't agree? Because by law alone, we are not going to make the measuring device work smoothly and show real results. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u162	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u163	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With great appreciation and great joy I welcome in energy law such new technologies as Smart Grid, Smart Metering or even enabling the implementation of the concept of car-to-grid, i.e. energy recovery from electric cars. That's very good. It is known that smart meters are beneficial to everyone because they allow more rational energy management. They are, of course, also more comfortable for customers. There is only one problem: the EU Directive 2009/72/EC, which the State is calling for, is 11 years old today. EU legislation appeared in the legal system in 2012. Your art. 2c determines the time of implementation of the counters for 2028. And my question is, why have you wasted the last five years in this regard? During that time, you threw 2 billion PLN in the mud for the construction of the Ostrołęka plant. [[♪ The bell ♪]] During that time, energy companies ceased to make profits. At this time, we have probably the most expensive energy in Europe. By the way, yes - for the European Union, no - for the veto. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u164	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Stanisław Żuk, a non-associated Member, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe at first the question, because there's not much time. Minister, when will the government present Poland's new energy policy? The current solutions are due to be in force by 2030. I know that you are working on a project of solutions in force until 2040. Now one sentence to you who are a little bit - I wouldn't want to offend anyone - too much soaked in the idea of green order. As regards the energy price at the consumer's home in Denmark, this is PLN 1257 for 1 MWh, in Germany - PLN 1236, in the Czech Republic - PLN 760 and in Poland - PLN 590. Why are you telling such nonsense that Poland has the most expensive energy? On the wholesale market - okay, 1 MWh is 3 euro more expensive, but not retailly, at the customer. After all, the Germans taxed themselves in green, and they paid powerful money for it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The subsidised energy is a natural way pushed into us. Last sentence. All that comes from imports is a source of losses for the Polish state, for energy companies and does not lower the energy price of the recipient. Question: "When will there be politics?" Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u166	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mr Dariusz Evening to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're talking about a big project for energy, which is the introduction of smart meters. If today we have 17 million customers in Poland, it is to be expected that this number of meters will have to be produced. My question is this. We have Polish factories, Polish meters manufacturers. Was the bill draft and the whole process consulted with Polish entrepreneurs who deal with this industry? Did they have the opportunity to submit their comments to this bill? Second question. The draft law also addresses issues related to gas transmission. There are records saying that if the transmission operator changes the owner, it may terminate certain contracts. I simply ask: Is this the preparation for the acquisition of PGNiG by Orlen? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u168	Thank you. The question will be asked by Artur Dziambor, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland was ranked 34th in 36 OECD countries in the ranking of the competitiveness of tax systems. It's about how complicated the tax system is, what is the multitude of taxes, taxes, fees, danin, contributions, excise duties, etc. We're in 34th place in 36 countries. It's a shame. It's just some kind of disgrace. What's gonna happen on January 1st? From 1 January comes the power charge, which is one of 36 or 34 taxes and various charges, the danin that your government has introduced since the beginning of this term, one of over thirty. Let me remind you that you have introduced, for example. the sugar tax, which was due to start in July but was postponed and will also apply from 1 January. You have the power. Why don't you use this power and remove the need to pay a tax that you call a power charge (the bell), at least for the time of the Coronavirus pandemic, and preferably forever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Slugocki, the Civic Coalition, will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u171	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to ask you a very prosaic question. It's a question that, I think, bothers every one of us, electricity consumers. Namely, you are announcing, and here I would like to congratulate you, on the electronic system of consumer management of electricity consumption. You estimate that by the year 2028 you will install 11.4 million smart meters on a national scale, giving around 1 million 425 meters a year. I wanted to ask you, Minister, about the costs. What will be the cost of replacing these meters? Who will de facto bear these costs? Will they not be passed on to consumers? Secondly, you are talking about the fact that this will stimulate the market for manufacturers of these devices and IT professionals who will find attractive places in the labour market. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But the question is, what about those who read the counters today? How will these people be developed? Will they lose their jobs or not? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u172	Thank you very much, sir. The answer will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the country's chief geologist, the government's representative. Minister Piotr Dziadzio, Minister for Raw Materials Policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u173	Ladies and gentlemen! Many accusations, many information, but also many positive words we heard here from the state. First of all, we agree that we need the bill to make a civilization leap in the power grid. It's undisputed, and we're all perfectly aware of it. There were a number of questions that it is difficult at first glance to arrange and systematize because they concerned different areas. I will try to make it more or less the way you presented it. I'll start with a consultation first. The bill, first of all... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me. May I continue? 'Cause I don't really know if that meant anything to me. Any questions? No. I'm so sorry, okay. I've asked several times, Minister. No, if the minister said it was against the veto, that would be wrong. Don't pay any attention. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Okay, I'm not returning it. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill was long-term, it is true, but it has passed all possible levels of consultation. She was consulted with all committees, consulted with KWRIST, consulted with all committees and headed the permanent committee of the Council of Ministers in September 2020. This long process shows how complex problems are included in the bill and how complex problems the law solves. This long process period has shown that she is prepared to implement it to introduce it. This is such a holistic response to the allegations that it's too short, too fast that we don't have enough time to discuss. Of course, she will be consulted, she will be discussed in committees. Ambitious time of entry of counters. This is another very important element. From 2023 onwards, we should start introducing these smart meters. It's about doing it in a system way, and it's about doing it within 36 months. It's such a key element. I'm going through all your comments one by one. Oh, has she been consulted with the Personal Data Protection Office? Yes, of course, it was, I confirm. We have a position. It's a protocol of discrepancies. I don't have any data at the moment on the protocol of discrepancies, but we can generally make this protocol available to you, and that's not a problem. We'll have it in writing. Okay, we'll deliver it to you. How many meters are installed right now? At the moment, smart meters are installed about 1.5 million. We've got about 12.8... We need to bring this in very quickly so that this bill and these smart meters can work very quickly. Smart meters are supported by our manufacturers. This is a very important element. This is also agreed with the producers. They're able to produce it, they're able to bring it in. This law also places, as we were accused, the recipient at the centre of interest. It's not an entrepreneur, it's a bill that guarantees the safety of the recipient. It has been alleged here and repeatedly presented by you that there is a certain threat, a lack of understanding for the accounting of electricity consumption. All of this will allow us right now to control and put the recipient at the centre of interest, at the centre of our attention. Of course, all the intelligent solutions that we are dealing with today, which we can already use via smartphones, are available to us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's not something we're not available to. It was mentioned here, stressed very strongly that we have young people who want to use and use these IT solutions. So that there are no restrictions in this area, and smart metering will allow us to use these modern, intelligent solutions. What else about these very important issues? It's a power charge. If we gave up the power charge - there was also this charge - today we would have to exclude the power plants that will be financed from this power charge. You must be aware of that. Has the Act been consulted with the President of the URE? Yes, of course, she was consulted. Of course, the URE's commitments will be implemented under the measures and opportunities it still has. This will be financed from these funds. The law, as I mentioned to you at the beginning, is very important in nature and is very important for the individual. We need to remove speculative possibilities. It is precisely about all those people who are trying to introduce, so to speak, changes in our tariffs or changes in our contracts, and also about removing the possibility of concluding contracts through the so-called. door-to-door service. This is very important, and I think you all realize that. It is recommended by URE, UOKiK etc. That's enough. I think these are probably the most important things I should answer to you right now. I'm still looking for any of those comments... No, they were generally of a general nature. I think that the detailed answers you would like to receive can be made available in writing to all of these possible questions. Mr. Marshal, energy policy. Mr Stanisław Żuk in the last sequence of his question asked when there would be an energy policy. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Yeah, yeah. Energy policy is in the process of consultation, so we hope to see it very quickly. He's already in the final phase of the arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u174	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm submit a draft law amending the Act - Energy Law and some other laws contained in print No. 808 to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 19 January 2021. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on an urgent government bill amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, stay and exit from this territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and some other laws (prints Nos 798 and 810). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of the Commission for Administration and Home Affairs on the urgent draft law amending the Act on entry into, stay and exit from the territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and certain other laws, Parliamentary printing No 798. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 73. On 3 December this year, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, following its first reading and consideration of the above draft law at its meeting yesterday, namely 8 December, asks the High Sejm to adopt this draft law. A few words of additional information: a long, several-hour meeting of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs, a very thorough analysis with the Legislative Office, many questions, many doubts. As rapporteur, I was also asked to draw attention to the fact that this is a very extensive material and, therefore, the expectation is that such projects should be made available in advance so that they can be better acquainted with this material. But let us not hide that this is an urgent government submission which, according to the Minister's interpellation, has been examined thoroughly within the government, so the committee, after yesterday's meeting, accepted this proposal and asks that the Sejm adopt this draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. And now we're gonna proceed with the presentation of club positions and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kalet, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u177	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Law and Justice respects judgments or directives of the European Union, and undoubtedly the law we are talking about today is the best example of this, because the draft law amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, residence and exit from that territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families is in such a good way to bring Polish legislation into line with the judgments or judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the field of application of the Directive on the number 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004. In the last few years, the Court of Justice of the European Union has repeatedly ruled on the application of the provisions of that Directive. In addition, the draft law adapts the Polish law to the Regulation of the European Parliament of 20 June 2019 on improving the security of personal evidence of Union citizens and residence permits issued to citizens of the European Union. In addition, the draft law provides for the introduction of regulations allowing for the inclusion on residence cards and permanent residence cards of relevant annotations and the image of fingerprint lines. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, because we also have a meeting of another important committee, I would not like to extend. Since this project is as if it is obvious, it must also be applied in other countries, it mainly adapts Polish legislation and is treated as an urgent project, the Law and Justice Club will fully support it. That is why we are asking the High House to support this project as well. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u178	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Michał Grammar.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Traditionally, the Act is being held at the last moment and traditionally the Sejm has not given Members and Members time to get a thorough knowledge of its draft. If we just wanted to read all of this material, we wouldn't be able to do it for 3.5 hours, which is the time that the Board of Administration and Home Affairs was debating yesterday. However, after reading the presentation, this does not raise much substantive doubts, and we will therefore support them. The use of general clauses is somewhat unclear, e.g.: you can expel a citizen of the Union from the Republic of Poland on grounds of defence and state security. These general clauses are not defined and in our assessment they should be defined. In fact, there is no doubt about the new powers for border guards, although checking by officers whether the marriage is fictional, admitting you, has a somewhat humorous aspect. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! One of the reasons for its adoption is the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. My previous speaker was also talking about this topic. Two of the many judgments cited concern Poles: Mrs Shei and Mr Ziółkowski. I give names because in the case law of the TSEU the names are the case numbers, so they are public. They both applied for the right to stay in Germany, both proving their right on the basis of an innovative condition for those times, which assumes that the right of permanent residence is granted to every citizen of the European Union who has legally spent five years in a given country. In both cases, the local courts refused to recognise them, claiming that the five-year periods they indicated had started at a time when Poland had not yet been a member of the Community. In both cases, the argument was also used that the aim of Poles was humanitarian. In the EU's newcomer, this simply means that they were clients of German social services. Imagine that in both of these cases the Court of Justice of the European Union was right for Poles. In his explanatory statement, he argued, among other things, that European Union citizens cannot be divided into better and worse just because the new countries The Union has been granted membership later than the countries of the old Union that it is impossible to distinguish between citizens of the Union and those who are more or less wealthy, that we are all equal in the Union. This is how the values of the European Community work, this is how the rule of law works in the Union. The French judge in defense of Polish citizens reported against the position of German courts. For a lawyer, some of these reasons are simply impressive. The degree of entitlement of a Union citizen is not due to the time that his country is a member of the Community. Nor does the degree of these powers have anything to do with the material situation of this citizen. Why am I talking about this today? Because I have the impression that these are the values that the state -- I direct these words to government representatives -- are questioning. You threaten to veto the EU budget, you want to push Poland onto the road leading to leaving the Community. You put your hand on the script for our country written in Cyrillic. This is not a discussion about the EU budget, about the National plan to rebuild and strengthen resilience. It is not just a question of billions that we can lose, it is not even about our other powers, the common market, students who take education from European universities under Erasmus. This is a matter of principles that underpin the functioning of the European Community, that is, the fight for ideas developed by Schuman, Adenauer, Spaak or Gasperi. This is a fight for the legacy of our politicians: Władysław Bartoszewski, Jan Kułakowski or President Lech Kaczyński at the head. Travesting the thought of Fr. Jan Twardowski, who was recently quoted by Professor Michał Romanowski in one of his columnists: let us hurry to love Poland in the European Union. It's so fragile, and we can lose it so quickly because of your irresponsible actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u180	Thank you very much. Two Members will speak on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left: first Mr Rafał Adamczyk and then Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Mr. Director! Mr. Vice Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, we had an incredible pleasure once again to hurrah over several hundred pages of the bill amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, stay and exit from this territory citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and some other laws. Unfortunately, we have been given guidelines to proceed on this bill, to terminate the procedure on it in the committee within one day, so we had time from hour. 15 to 15 hours 24 - a whole nine hours. Ladies and gentlemen! We have managed in less than 4 hours, but we believe that the multitude of amendments made by the Legislative Office and the speed of the procedure do not allow for a good and in-depth analysis of this document. The left, which we represent here with a colleague, will not be against the bill, but we will refrain from the final decision until any amendments from the Senate are received and we will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u182	Thank you. I now ask Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Council of Ministers considered this project urgent in view of the need to regulate the rules of entry and residence of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and their family members. And that's what I understand. On the other hand, I ask you to explain why Members have received 2 days to read this work, which has no small 500 pages - first of all. Secondly, have the UK regulations been given so late and therefore the pace of work is given? What is the reason that for the second time the High House is forced to work on the document at an express rate? I should announce a competition with a question, which of the parliamentarians read this project in the last few dozen hours. Another point - that's the question. In order to improve the quality of administrative proceedings, you introduced this law, which was intended to concern the entry and residence of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain, many other regulations, as always, because this is done by the way. That's what I'm asking you. In order to improve the quality of administrative proceedings carried out, the draft law introduces a provision which allows the Border Guard to conduct an environmental interview and to check the whereabouts of a citizen of the European Union in case of suspicion of a fictitious marriage. For the Border Guard, specific regulations shall be introduced, which shall be referred to as: probability. In this connection, I have a question on the basis of which the officer's doubts may arise, whether the marriage is fictional, who finds such doubt and how it is justified, what legal force it has. Second, how is such doubt verified? Isn't it caused, among others. racial prejudice, nationality of a border guard, personal injury or dislike of a person? Will there not be duplication of tasks of the Police and Border Guard in the field of foreign residence control in Poland after the changes have been made? Does the extension of the Border Guard's competence mean that the police have so far failed to carry out the tasks of verifying the marriages of foreigners? That's another line. I already talked about it at the committee meeting. We have legal dualism, because I will remind the High House that the High Chamber voted on a proposal from the PiS to allow doctors to be employed in Poland on the one hand, on the other hand, on the basis of a diploma obtained in countries outside the European Union and a written statement that this person knows the Polish language. Therefore, I have a question: are these regulations which were described in this way and against which (The Bell) the General Medical Council and the union of nurses and midwives were also included in the printing regulation No 798? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u184	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives will speak by Mrs Urszula Nowogórska in remote mode. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u185	Good morning, Marshal, I hope you can hear me. Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Coalition Poland - PSL club, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives with regard to the government draft law amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, residence and exit from this territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and certain other laws which were included in the Seym printing No 798. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday, the first reading of this project took place at the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, one can say, at an express rate. In view of the extensive nature of the document, this did not allow for an in-depth examination of the content and the proposed changes. Besides, my previous speakers have already mentioned this. The draft law took the form of an urgent project in view of the need to regulate the rules of entry and residence of citizens of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and members of their families after a transitional period resulting from the Act on the occurrence of the abovementioned. States from the European Union and the European Atomic Energy Community, which shall end on 31 December 2020. The entry into force of the Act on which we are proceeding today will take place on 1 January 2021, the first day following the transitional period laid down in Article. 126 withdrawal contracts. This deadline is, of course, inextricably linked to the end of the transitional period for citizens of the United Kingdom and members of their families. The current legislative process is intended to ensure that citizens of the United Kingdom, members of their families and other persons exercising their powers under Directive 2004/38/EC can continue to reside legally in the territory of the Republic of Poland after the United Kingdom has resigned from the European Union. I would also like to say that on 2 August 2021 the rules for issuing certificates for the registration of a European Union citizen's stay, residence cards, documents confirming the right of permanent residence and residence cards will enter into force. Ladies and gentlemen! It can be said that the draft law on which we are proceeding today aims to bring the Polish legal order into line with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union on the adaptation of Directive 2004/38/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the right of citizens of the Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States. This proposal also adapts the Polish right to Regulation 2019/1157 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on improving the security of personal evidence of Union citizens and residence permits issued to Union citizens. This means that the format of documents issued to citizens will be harmonised and that constant residence notes and a fingerprint image will be included. In view of the short time of analysis and the period of adjustment to the entry into force of the bill, many questions arise regarding the costs of implementation, implementation of this law, as well as the new powers of the Border Guard in terms of the suspicion of a fictitious marriage with a citizen of the European Union, as also mentioned by my previous speaker a moment ago. The Border Guard shall, on the basis of new powers, conduct an environmental interview and verify at the place of residence of a European Union citizen whether there has been a suspicion and whether this suspicion is justified. The draft law also proposes to amend the authority responsible for issuing decisions on expulsion of European Union citizens and members of their families not European Union nationals. The decision to expel these citizens of the European Union and members of their families will be issued, either ex officio or on request, by the commandant of the Border Guard or the commandant of the Border Guard and not by the voivode so far. Ladies and gentlemen! To sum up (the bell), the need for this law is understandable, but in the interests of the work of Border Guard officers and the duties they carry out reliably, I would like to ask whether the actual implementation of this law is sufficiently advanced that these officers will have all the instruments to carry out their tasks efficiently, and whether all these mechanisms, resources and costs will indeed be provided for them. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u186	Thank you very much, Member. I am now asking Mr Krzysztof Tuduja, who will present his position on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Print number 798. We are talking about a government bill amending the Act on entry into the territory of the Republic of Poland, residence and exit from this territory of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and members of their families and some other laws. It concerns the adaptation of the Polish law to the rules in force in the European Union as regards the rights of citizens of the European Union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the Member States, the introduction of an institution for the withdrawal and cancellation of a visa issued to a family member of a European Union citizen and the regulation of the new legal basis for refusal of residence and permanent residence, as well as the application by Poland of an agreement on the withdrawal of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland from the European Union in the case of residence rights of British citizens and members of their families. The name and specification of the subject matter of the Act itself are very extensive, as are the project itself, which, together with the justifications, has almost 700 pages, as has already been mentioned here. This regulation is a form of adaptation of Polish regulations in the following areas: movement and residence in the European Union, solutions concerning the rights of the Border Guard. The adjustment also takes place in the area of the UK exit agreement from the European Union. Applies to e.g. rules on the entry and residence of British citizens, members of their families and other persons falling within the scope of this agreement in Poland after a transitional period ending on 31 December 2020. Most of these arrangements are due to enter into force on 1 January 2021, hence the rush to proceed over this law. On this occasion, I would like to mention to those who believe that there is no salvation outside the European Union, that this regulation in the context of the United Kingdom should remind them that it is possible to shape their international relations not only in group but also bilaterally. The UK pursues its own policy on the basis of its assessment of benefits and costs in international relations, based on the best possible concept of its own interest. This is what every respectable state should do. You can and must fight for Polish interests, being inside the European Union, but as the British example shows, you can also pursue your own policy in a different way. We as a Polish country should have thoughtful and prepared different strategic scenarios, different options of conduct, without eliminating the option of preparing a safe exit, precisely for security reasons, in case there is a risk that we will be suffocating in the European Union when such a political and legal climate creates for us left-wing governing circles of the European Union. The future can look different, you have to be ready for any variant. Finally, such a scenario should also be prepared as a negotiating argument in various ongoing discussions in the framework of the monitoring of Polish cases when you are in the European Union. Well, you need imagination for that. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u188	Thank you very much. Would any of your fellow Members like to add to the list of people willing to ask a question? If not, I close this list by setting the time to ask a question - 1 minute. Ms Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! There are many general wordings in the bill that can lead to far-reaching freedom in decision-making. I will give you an example of this: the citizen of the European Union has sufficient financial resources. No clarification on what that means. Next: according to what criteria should it be examined whether family life with a citizen of the Republic of Poland has been developed or strengthened? The next case concerns a decision on expulsion from the Republic of Poland. Here too, decisions will be made individually. My concern is: Will there not be a problem with the application of this law? Will there not be a blocking of voivodship offices, as is currently the case, when dealing with foreign cases from countries not members of the European Union? What's going on in the offices [[♪ The bell ♪]] Voivodship, it's just a tragedy, it's been expected for so long. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u190	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project is of course very extensive, including regulations relating to, among others. to the powers of the Border Guard or to the application of the UK withdrawal agreement from the Union, but it does not contain one, it seems to me, important - or maybe for the government not important - regulation. This is a regulation on which I have already referred to the Ministry of Home Affairs, namely the regulation on informal partnerships between multinational couples. The problem is that if such a couple has not married, the current pandemic regulations do not allow them to continue to live together because they are nationals of other countries, of course, when one of them is a citizen from outside the European Union. Provisions allowing such a joint stay have already been introduced, among others. Czech Republic, Denmark, Norway, the Netherlands, Austria or Switzerland. The Commission of the European Union also asks for such rules to be introduced. It is also worth noting here that Poles are definitely behind the Union and say: yes to the Union, not for veto. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But remember, love is not tourism. I would like to ask from this speaker: Will the government commit itself to such legislation as to allow the two couples to live together in times of pandemic? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u192	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions. First. In my reports and statements I have heard mostly about relations with Great Britain, which is natural, because since January this situation will change. I would like to ask for a different direction, namely Ukraine. Many Polish citizens who acquired citizenship through the Polish Charter come to Poland. I am thinking here mainly of women who are very much needed, these are ladies who are often with older people, taking care of older people. It is natural and common that their spouses are not in the European Union, for example. Ukrainians. I would like to ask for an answer and a written reply. It seems to me that these regulations can make relations between Poles and Poles who work here very difficult, with their spouses and families very difficult. As far as I know (The Bell), these families come and want to come very often, and they want these relationships to be mutual. Meanwhile, the Border Guard will now assess whether this is a marriage, whether they can come, etc. And one last question, Mr. Marshal. I didn't receive... It is a very large law, amendment of the law, implementation of European law, but there is no regulation. And what is this order? Is it ready? Please answer today: Is there a regulation ready to clarify these unclear issues? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u194	Thank you, Member. I do not see Mr Mirosław Suchon. Then I ask you to ask Wojciech Saluga a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u195	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! Another bill being proceded in a scandalous way. This is where the tail turns the dog. The Sejm is to work and work on laws, and we are forced to process 500 pages in two days. This cannot be read or understood, and I am not saying any more amendments. Finally, this applies to thousands of our citizens and members of their families. This is the life of people. And we're playing people's lives so much that we're making laws on our knees in such a way that we can't read them. I wanted to ask about these general clauses, about expulsion from the territory of the Republic of Poland for reasons of defence, security, public order, public security. It all sounds fun. But at the end of the day, someone has to say it. I wanted to ask who would decide this, because it would be very discretionary, and how discretionary it is, it is absolutely arbitrary. Isn't there a chance of that just [[♪ The bell ♪]] narrow it down, name it, catalogue it, so people know what they're standing on, and what they can hold on to? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u196	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u197	Chairman of the Kaczyński Committee! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are debating free movement within the Union, but we may not be affected soon. Your Marshal Witek wonders how the Dutch can reprimand us. And I would like to express my gratitude to the Dutch Parliament for addressing the question of breaking the rule of law in Poland. I would like to remind you that he called on his government to bring Poland before the Court of Justice of the European Union for failing to execute the judgment of the TSUE in the case of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. For 5 years, this House has been allowing the destruction of the law, first in Poland and now all over the European Union. Marshal Witek, there's nothing to be surprised about. Here we must apologize for the fact that in the face of such a disaster Poland now blocks help for sick and suffering sisters and brothers throughout the European Union. What is Satan's idea of punishing defenseless nations in this way? You don't have human feelings. You don't know empathy and compassion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Human life doesn't mean anything to you. I am ashamed of this Sejm today, I am ashamed of this government, and today I am ashamed of being Polish because of you. For the European Union, not for the veto. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u198	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Jan Szopiński to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you know, since 1 January 2021, the United Kingdom has introduced a point system for citizens of Poland and other countries of the European Union who intend to stay in it for more than 6 months. So de facto, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland will block the stay of a large group of Poles and carry out a typical brain drain and specialised personnel. I have a question for government representatives: Did the Polish government consider introducing on a reciprocal basis the same rules for obtaining the right of residence of citizens of Great Britain in Poland as the Government of Great Britain introduced to citizens of Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u200	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u201	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Taking advantage of the opportunity of free movement of members of the European Union's citizens, I would like to make very clear what is happening in Poland. Well, you've virtually shut down the entire tourism industry. Today in the south of Poland from the Krkonoše to Zakopane 80% entities, mainly family, private, Polish, are closed by the fact that since 14 October you do not allow people to function normally. If you're shutting down the industry, you don't give any compensation. These people are on the verge of bankruptcy today. That is why we call, firstly, for help to be found for the tourism industry, for the catering industry, for all those people who spend years investing so that we can spend their holidays in a normal way. It is necessary to extend this season of spring break (the bell) to allow them to spend safe time, and to allow thousands of Poles and Poles to survive in COVID until the summer season. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. The previous questions will be answered by the head of the Office for Foreigners, Mr Jarosław Szajner.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! As you have pointed out, gentlemen, this law is essential for us to be able to ensure that the citizens of the United Kingdom can live and function as properly as possible and to improve the security of the documents held by the citizens of the European Union. I'd like to answer the questions briefly. Maybe I should start with Mr Shopiński's questions. In a nutshell. You're asking if we've considered different options. Yeah, we've considered a lot of options. The best option has been chosen, the option which is as suitable as possible due to the number of UK citizens residing in Poland, as well as the most beneficial for our country. With regard to whether the police in this area do not fulfil their tasks and therefore we want the Border Guard to carry them out, I inform you that these tasks have always been carried out by the Border Guard and not by the police. Nothing's gonna change here. As regards the situation with regard to environmental intelligence... This concerns whether the Border Guard is prepared - Mrs Nowogórska asked this question - to conduct environmental interviews. Yeah, she's ready. Border Guard officers are currently undergoing training. Such interviews shall also be conducted in situations involving third-country nationals. With regard to the situation of doctors and nurses, this situation has nothing to do with this law because they acquire the right of residence in connection with taking up a job and not in connection with marriage. Mrs Nowogórska asked about the costs of this law. The costs are given in the impact assessment. The planned adjustment costs are PLN 10 million over the next 10 years. This is the cost of adjusting systems and the cost of blanks for issuing cards. With regard to the question of Mr Saługi on the general terms, general terms and on who decides to expel a citizen of the European Union, it is clear. These decisions are taken by the Border Guard authorities, the Head of the Office for Foreigners. It must also be borne in mind that this decision is subject to appeal to administrative courts. I will answer the other questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u204	Thank you very much, Minister. Is there a rapporteur in the Chamber who might want to speak? There isn't. Then I will close the discussion. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions Supporting the Implementation of Operational Programmes due to the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 and some other laws (prints Nos 799 and 820). I would very much like to ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At yesterday's meeting, the Public Finance Commission examined the Government's draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions to Support the Implementation of Operational Programmes due to the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 and some other laws, print No 799. There was a first reading of this law. The first version of the fund-specific scheme introduced regulations aimed at smooth implementation and settlement of projects co-financed under operational programmes in the context of the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. However, due to the prolonged pandemic situation, it was necessary to ensure that the rules laid down in the fund-specific scheme can be applied until the end of the financial perspective of 2014.2020, i.e. until 31 December 2023. During the committee meeting, the various amendments contained in the draft law were discussed in detail and two amendments were tabled. The Committee on Public Finances voted negatively on both amendments. On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I ask the High House to adopt the bill in question and, at the request of the applicants, the committee shall present a minority proposal to delete in the article. Point 1 (3). Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u206	Thank you very much, sir. We now proceed to present the positions of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Teresa Pamuła will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I took part in the honour of presenting a position on behalf of the Law and Justice Club concerning a government draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions supporting the implementation of operational programmes due to the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 and certain other laws, print No 799. Ladies and gentlemen! As the rapporteur has already mentioned, the proposed law introduces new regulations to improve measures to overcome the economic and social consequences caused by the pandemic. The Fund Spec has introduced regulations aimed at smooth implementation and settlement of projects co-financed under operational programmes in the context of a pandemic crisis. In view of the prolonged state of the COVID epidemic and the specific situation in which the entities implementing the projects financed by these measures are located, the draft law extends the deadline until the final conclusion of the financial perspective of 2014.2020, i.e. 31 December 2023. The draft law also extends the funds of the fund law using the European Neighbourhood Instrument. The inclusion of these programmes under this instrument will provide a legal basis for the less impact of COVID on the law. The draft law also provides for the amendment of the Act of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration, introducing development plans into the provisions of the case. In turn, the amendment of the Act of 6 December 2006 on the principles of development policy enables the implementation of the European Union's policy on mitigating the social and economic consequences of the pandemic crisis. The project provides for the strengthening of the competence of the Minister responsible for regional development as responsible for preparing the development plan as the basis for applying for measures to mitigate the effects of the crisis and to avoid any deterioration of inequalities in the European Union. It is very important that regulations provide public support under the development plan in accordance with EU substantive and procedural law in this area. The project also envisages not taking into account the average monthly cost of living at home for social assistance expenditure and costs which have been covered by funding from programmes financed or co-financed by European funds, national programmes or subsidies from the state budget. The wider the socio-economic impact can increase the risk of poverty occurring or worsening, so the quicker provisions are put in place to develop a programme funded by the European Social Fund Plus, which will be in the framework of cohesion policy between 2021 and 2027 to combat material deprivation in the next perspective, i.e. in the new financial perspective. The proposed rules will enable the Minister responsible for social security to prepare a programme financed from the European Social Fund Plus. The draft law, which is very important, is not contrary to European Union law, as well as will have a positive impact on the labour market, and increases stability among entrepreneurs and will give employment opportunities at the current level. The draft law amending the Law on Specific Solutions supporting the implementation of operational programmes in connection with the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 and some other laws is very important because it is expected to receive beneficiaries of programmes implementing projects from EU funds, employers, employees, institutions participating in the implementation of European measures, bodies leading to social houses, and such entities are more than 800 people paying for social aid homes, i.e. almost 80 thousand. persons. The Law and Justice Club calls for the adoption by the High House of a draft law submitted by the Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u208	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club on a law supporting the implementation of operational programmes in connection with the presentation of COVID-19 in 2020, which is an extension of the law adopted by us in the spring of this year and introduces a loosening of the rules for spending and clearing European funds in Poland. It so happens that this amendment concerns European measures both in the present and in the future. It is a government document under which he signed, I understand, also Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Therefore, yesterday at the committee meeting, our greatest attention was drawn to the fact that in the explanatory memorandum of the law it is clearly stated that Poland, Polish citizens, our economy, but also to society, so that we can all quickly combat the effects of the crisis caused by the lockdown and epidemic, is important, among others. to make rapid use of readily available European funds. And I wanted to ask on this occasion: Which position of Prime Minister Morawiecki's government is true? Is it that we do not need European funds, and especially that we urgently need to do without them, that we will get out of the crisis alive, and at all, that we have the same at the same price, or that we have cheaper resources available within our own capabilities, or that these European funds are needed to fight the poverty of society, which could be the result of the current epidemiological crisis that the whole world is experiencing? Yes, Minister, Poles know that we need European funds and that these are lies, that those words that you said yesterday at the committee meeting have nothing to do with the truth. The first lie of Prime Minister Morawiecki, repeated by the Minister yesterday on the committee: we do not need the funds, they are on loan, we will have to give them all back. That's not what I said. No, the truth is that Poland is still not a net payer in the European Union and it draws more from this Union as part of annual advances than it pays to the EU's cash register, because we still belong to developing countries chasing the average of GDP in the European Union. Therefore, the funds that may be allocated to us are 750 billion under the reconstruction fund for which Polish entrepreneurs and citizens are waiting, and from the budgetary part of the European Union. They are urgently needed and will be a great addition to those opportunities which Poland uses on a daily basis. The second lie, among which. Mr. Minister tried to feed us yesterday: in fact, our bonds are cheaper than European Union bonds. Minister, I checked specifically for you: the cost of 10-year bonds for the individual buyer you want to sell most is 1.7%. in the first year, and in each subsequent year, 1 percentage point to inflation. I'm sorry, but the European Union has the same bonds much cheaper, Minister. It is estimated, among other things, that those that will be issued will be about 2 percentage points cheaper than what we can get. But already 12-year-old bonds - in the European Union we are also talking about 20-year bonds - issued now, in December, in the case of the sale of bonds to individual customers by the Treasury, that is, Minister, already 1.5 percentage points to inflation, or 4.5%. Believe me, the European Union has much cheaper money available and there is no need for us to pay even more billions every year because of interest, pay out of our pockets, taxpayers' pockets, because you like it so much, because you have internal conflicts, because Morawiecki is fighting Ziobra, because you put politics of your own party and your own government over national interest, the interests of citizens and the Polish economy. It's not our agreement, and it never will be. We call on Prime Minister Morawiecki not to deprive the Polish economy or Polish citizens of additional resources that can make a significant contribution to the [[♪ The bell ♪]] faster exit from the COVID crisis and so that Polish society will not be poor As a result, we have faced this crisis. The law, of course, as I said, loosens the spending of European funds, which, from our point of view, is very important and important, as well as clearing up these funds and introducing new funds. We will, of course, support her. No - for the veto, yes - for the Union. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u210	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Anita Sowińska will speak on behalf of the Left Club. She's not here. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, the Conservatives will speak to Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to start by declaring that, of course, the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will support this project, because it is at our heart that all procedures related to the settlement of European funds, with their destination, will be realized without obstacles. On the other hand, Minister, while observing you, I am not surprised - on this occasion maybe such malicious digression - that you keep your head quite low, because from this draft bill there are two facts quite compromising for you, also for the Ministry that you represent. First of all, in the spring of last year, we looked at similar solutions. You could then hear that the COVID pandemic will not end by December 2020 that these procedures that we have developed can be successfully extended over time. There were many amendments that we tried to make you do that. With the stubbornness of the maniac, absolutely, on an exclusive basis of your knowledge, the dogma of your perfection and knowledge you did not want to hear about these solutions. That's the first thing I'd be ashamed of in your place. The second thing I would be somewhat ashamed of in your place, too, is what Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska mentioned. The question arises as to whether, according to the PiS government, these European measures are necessary for Poland, whether they are more important than internal policy and pushing radicals from Zbigniew Ziobra, risking the vital interests of the nearest financial perspective or not. You are sending such divergent signals in this area that sometimes you can doubt what is really in your head, I hope, not you, your colleagues are present. European funds are extremely needed not only for Polish governments, Polish entrepreneurs, Polish farmers, but also for our economy. The funds from the recovery fund are necessary, and we need to stabilise the extremely unstable health care today, and reorganize it. This cannot be done without European funds and it is worth taking advantage of this opportunity, this debate that we are having today, to make it clear. I will conclude my speech with a club appeal and ask for a uniform position of the government towards European funds, European policy, the predictability of Poland as an important country of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u212	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Michael Urbaniak, who will present the position of the Female Confederation Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project under investigation concerns the extension by 2023 of the provisions of the fund-specific scheme, which are in principle intended to offset the effects of the crisis related to COVID-19 on the Union's operational programmes. All right, I understand this extension in principle, this is justified, because the crisis we have now is a crisis that is difficult to predict in many respects. Do you, on the other hand? as a governing state, the so-called government. good change, are you going to continue to keep Poles almost against the wall in economic matters, in matters of education or in cultural matters? You have caused closure, you have significantly reduced the activity of thousands, but not hundreds of thousands of Poles. You've closed gastronomy, hotels, movies, museums, discotheques, theaters. Trip pilots or carriers who can't work because of you, they're gonna take you out on the wheelbarrows in a minute. And what, you're gonna keep saying you're saving the economy? Will Prime Minister Morawiecki continue to talk about the importance of every place of work for him? Then closes the Gryfia shipyard. Poles are not as naive as you think, and Poland won't last that long. Plus, you just want to experiment on Poles. I am very much in favour of a high inoculation for various diseases in Poland, but at a time when we have products that are not yet well tested, which should still be tested, you in practice - because in theory it will not be so, but in practice it will be so - you will try to force Poles to accept such substances. And who's really gonna take responsibility for that? Who's gonna take responsibility for this? Because I think you're gonna wash your hands. Besides, given the efficiency of our health system, it may take more than 3 years to inoculate even half of the population in Poland. Maybe Minister Niedzielski is a magician, maybe he can do it faster, but the magic doesn't really exist. If this is supposed to involve further training of Poles, it is increasing, it is simply reducing the sharpening, stating from polls that now it is better to push the screw a little bit and then let it go, then you will not find a good change in the future parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u214	Thank you very much, sir. Have you come from the Left to present your position? No. I would therefore like to inform you that the list of Members of the task of the question has been closed. The time for questioning is 1 minute. And the first question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I wanted to ask what is the risk of unused EU funds from the current financial perspective when the so-called regulation. The rule of law will enter into force in January next year. Will these measures, which are so much needed by the Polish economy, entrepreneurs, local governments, not be blocked? Poles need EU funds very much. Just for the Union, not for the veto. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u216	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thanks to its membership in the European Union, Poland has gained huge financial resources to support the development of the country, which have helped to bridge the differences in the level of life in Poland and in the countries of western Europe. In this draft law, you loosen the financial formula for the use of these funds - and very well - claiming that they will contribute to a faster elimination of the effects of the crisis caused by COVID-19. What it's like, after all, is European measures helping or not helping? The government has, ladies and gentlemen, a split personality, but this split personality does not have Poles who say: yes to the Union, not to the veto. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u218	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that we've been fighting the coronavirus since March is obvious to everyone. And it was also obvious to all of us that there would be problems, that part of these projects would not be able to be accounted for by the European Union's operational programmes. And every Pole knew that. On the other hand, you are in charge of writing such a bill on 30 November, one month before the expiry of the current specialty. With the maximum working time of the Senate and the President, this law will not enter into force before 1 January 2021. And it's not really your quality, and it's not your indecency in legislation that's the biggest problem here. The biggest problem is that you are referring to the EU's perspective, the new EU's budgetary perspective. In this regard, first of all, we should ask: have you decided to veto the European budget and deprive Poland of billions of zlotys? In the case of a crazy budget commission veto, will it be possible to implement the design assumptions? We speak clearly: yes to the Union (the bell), not to the veto. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition, parliamentary club. Are you Mr Suchoń? There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. It is good that you are Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 33 The State extends the scope of this fund-specific scheme to the so-called programmes. the European Neighbourhood Instrument. You're doing it now. I wanted to ask: Why are you doing this now, and why didn't you do it at the beginning when we first introduced this resolution? What is the reason for these programmes under this Neighbourhood Instrument? And there's an extra question. Of course, this law extends its activities to what is, of course, and will enter. Next question: Do you provide for similar mechanisms to be used in the event of the adoption of the Fund for Reconstruction and the adoption of the draft budget of the European Union? Will it also be possible to use these funds efficiently and efficiently to invest in the funds that we will receive? Well, yes, it is important (the bell) today to emphasize: yes to the Union, not to the veto, and let's stick to it. I hope that the government will also hear this and that the Prime Minister will behave accordingly in Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. If nothing's changed...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u223	Nothing's changed, Marshal. Hello, Mr. Marshal. Hello, Minister, gentlemen. High Izbo! The biggest hypocrisy, the most hypocritical statement I've heard lately, was that the budget commission would be better than the budget. And that is what the Members of the PiS have said with full conviction. Well, to me, it was shocking and really basically taunting intelligence. Minister! Therefore, please tell me whether, if a budget commission had been introduced, programmes such as Horizon Europe, the European Union for health, the European Defence Fund, the Fair Transformation Fund, the Border Management Fund, Erasmus, Creative Europe, LIFE+, etc., etc. had been abolished.? You can't go so far in your narratives that you just treat people like a dark mass. There's a limit to propaganda. It seems that everyone - research shows this - we are Euro-enthusiasts, but rational Euro-enthusiasts (The Bell) and we know very well that tomorrow we must say: yes to the European Union, not to the veto. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak. Finally, she is, because I have called you out three times today, and you have not been and I have started to worry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u225	I'm sorry, Marshal, for the trouble. But no, it's a pleasure to see you. There you go, Member. Nice to meet you, too. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First question. We're here to extend the bill that expires next month, so I have a question. This is a special act. As far as specifics are concerned, there are special conditions that must be met, and only then should such laws apply. Meanwhile, we are now saying that there are vaccinations, that it is likely that the situation will improve in the summer. That's the prediction. What is the relevance of using a specialty? Can't we, shouldn't we, use these measures with normal, natural laws, where Parliament's role will be much greater? Each special act gives the government special powers that are not necessarily well used. What my colleagues have just said - for the Union, not for the veto - involves (the bell) as if the whole situation. The more specialty, the less Parliament's role. This is not good and this should be otherwise resolved even in the current situation, which is not entirely predictable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u226	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u227	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Most of the major road investments were mainly financed by EU funds. That's what happened in every region, including mine. I wanted to ask you about the initiative to build 100 bypasses. Are you guys... Unfortunately, I have not yet received an answer to my interpellation, and you are here today. Was the construction of these roads planned using EU funds? What will happen to Mr Morawiecki's promise next year if the budget is vetoed and next year we will work on the basis of a commission? How do you want to continue building 100 bypasses? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, First of all, yes to the Union, not to the veto. Veto is a loss of funds that will allow us to get out of the crisis quickly - faster than without them - both economic and social. It is expected that society will, unfortunately, be poorer as a result of the crisis and we must combat it. Is it true, Minister, that a veto doesn't protect us from anything if you don't want the rule of law, and she'll still be in charge of the commission. We'll lose resources, or they'll be available to us later. Unfortunately, that's a fact. About eight important European funds will not be distributed at all. On this occasion, I wanted to ask the marshal why he's blocking us from working in the subcommittee. the clearance of European funds. Marshal, I'm going to ask you once again to sign off on this subcommittee's work. This is a very important time when it comes to European measures. We negotiate new measures (the bell) and the subcommittee must work. Don't block the work of this subcommittee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the emotional discussion of this important bill, some Members have inversioned subjectively with regard to the bill. It could be felt that the debate concerned a new programming period, i.e. 2021 and 2027... It does. ...while we were concentrating on the draft law that was intended to enable the expenditure of the 2014-2020 programming period to be implemented. That is why I ask the Minister: Is this discussion - addressed in a completely different direction - really about the provisions of the future financial law, which is not yet in place, or is it about this programming period? Why were there still veto threads involved when this case wasn't about veto at all? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. The European Plus Fund is a new perspective...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u232	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Waldemar Buda to respond. Will the rapporteur still want to speak? Yes? You're gonna answer that question, by the way. This is gonna be nice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! A large part of the questions were indeed about the new financial perspective. Mr Noblet is right, of course, this law concerns the continuation of... That's not true. ...can be said to have completed the current perspective. There is indeed a new perspective in one element, but only when it comes to identifying the Minister responsible for regional development in the construction and planning of development plans. In this context, of course, I am referring to a potential national recovery plan, which would be such a development programme. On the other hand, all these technical solutions, which concern the spending of European funds in connection with COVID-19 and simplifying the spending of these funds, relate to the completion of this perspective. Let me remind you that we have until 31 December 2023 to settle the funds. Hence the proposal that the COVID financial law should apply to this period. Why - because here such accusations were made - in the original version of the law in April there was a proposal that this law should apply only until the end of the year? Ladies and gentlemen! I remember these voices, which indicated that you would have doubts about why you took so long. There were voices which showed that some exclusion, e.g. the provision of Public Procurement Law should not apply for so long. One of your amendments was indeed about extending this deadline, but only until the end of next year. We, on the other hand, are proposing - and there was no amendment or vote to say that this deadline could be even longer - the maximum possible deadline until 31 December 2023, also because such an approach is also presented by the European Commission. The first anti-COVID arrangements for funds were also cumulative in 2020. It was only later that the working arrangements showed that we could expand these solutions to the end of the perspective and hence our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, it's about responding to the situation. If on the market, among the beneficiaries of European funds, we see the need to make it possible, easier and more flexible to settle European funds, then we are simply doing so. There should be full agreement here. I would certainly not mix this case and this law with a new perspective, because in fact most of the questions were about this. Perhaps this should be addressed briefly, because you do not understand that European funds can be liked on the one hand and that they can be negotiated hard on the other. I don't see any contradiction here, because it's the opposite. Reconciling today's proposal from the European Parliament and the Council is to agree that these measures are simply at risk, would be threatened in the next perspective. We want these funds in the budget to be certain, i.e. so that no discretion at the official level can cause them to be lost. Therefore, yes, we like European funds, we are behind them and we want to guarantee their certainty, stability, the possibility of spending throughout the programming period 2021 to 2027. So the Prime Minister's view that we care about resources is true, as is true, and that if regulations such as this mechanism of the rule of law are applied to the budget, we will also apply veto law in this respect so that these measures are sure and impossible to be blocked in one year from the perspective of 20212027. Of course, money has value. We value this and spend Europe's resources well. In the rankings, when it comes to the absorption of European funds, we are at the forefront. As regards irregularities in the spending of European funds, including those that are monitored by OLAF, the body that deals with irregularities, we are also below the European average in statistics. Therefore, we have nothing to be ashamed of. If the mechanisms are really about spending European budgetary resources, then we have no greater doubt here, because really our results are great or at least good. On the other hand, it is certainly not that every decision and every consent can be converted into money. Let us consider that it is undeniable that the 750 billion negotiated by the Prime Minister is indeed a gigantic sum, this is a gigantic success from the July European Council. However, not everything can be converted into money and the loss of some independence, sovereignty and freedom in decision-making in many segments that today are not covered by treaties, is not worth it and not always in private life, in ordinary life we are able to count everything into money (the bell) and say that they always win. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the debate on this law. I hope that Parliament will accept it and, of course, that my opinion in the committee will be that these are amendments that do not deserve to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u234	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u235	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to thank all the clubs very briefly after all. Despite this intense discussion, which, however, focused on the new perspective, on veto discussions and not on the subject of this project, I would like to thank you for the fact that all the clubs supported this project, i.e. the country's instinct to use those funds that are still to be used to help those affected by the pandemic. So this layer of very loud non-essential speeches did not, however, cover the basic objective of the Polish parliament to adopt this important bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u236	Thank you, sir. Maybe the bill was just good. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure (Print No 732). I wanted to thank you very much for your work. I wanted to tell you that I've been watching you all morning, [[Applause]] and I wanted to say it this morning - I'm sorry that it's just now - thank you very much. So it doesn't matter that only Members in this building are working. We're joining you. I ask the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Justice of Mr Marcin Warchoł to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u237	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The aim of the project is to implement two Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of victims' rights, in particular children, offences of sexual exploitation. Most of these powers are already in our Code of Criminal Procedure today, and we are merely clarifying the set of powers in terms of proper information for such a victim. But that's the second point. In the first point, however, I would like to address the presumption of the age of the victim. We have dozens of cases a year in the field of trafficking in human beings and often victims, minors, go to our country without documents as victims of trafficking in human beings or other cross-border crimes. It is very difficult to determine their age: they have no documents, there is no evidence of how old they are in fact. At this point, we're introducing a presumption of minority. If the judicial authority or another official - Border Service or Customs Service - is unable to determine the age of such a minor victim, the provision will help them. It is presumed that he who looks like a minor is indeed a minor and exercises all the rights of the minor victim in the criminal proceedings in question. So if doubts about the age of the victim cannot be removed, he is supposed to be a child. So it's a very important first recipe. And the second provision concerning all victims: namely, today it is not enough, very often in practice, to provide only a sheet of paper with information for the victim about his rights. In this instruction we have written specific paragraphs, information, what can he submit, the right to which applications he is entitled. On the other hand, the provision that we are introducing involves entering into dialogue by a judicial authority, whether it is a prosecutor or a judge, with the victim and receiving information from him, whether he has actually been familiar with these powers, whether he knows what he can do in the proceedings, whether he understands the information given to him and finally whether he wants to benefit from it. Thus, the standard of guarantee for the victim is absolutely greater in terms of what we propose than in the current legal situation. The Authority shall take a statement from the victim whether it wishes to apply the protection and support measures referred to therein. What are the measures? Among other things, there is one thing that goes on here. to question the victim only once. It is very common that minors who are victims or victims of an adult are not able to properly distinguish between their rights. So the protection measures will be guaranteed, presented, you can say, in the human language - the prosecutor, the judge will show him what is good for him in his actions, what powers he has. Interrogation of the defendant, witness, expert, distance curator, fixation of the actions by image and sound, secrecy of the witness's data, removal from the accused's hearing room, so that his presence does not interfere with the witness's embarrassing presence, exclusion of the publicity of the proceedings, hearing of the witness and the accused at a distance - a number of such powers called protection measures will be guaranteed to the victim in a realistic way, not only by handing over a piece of paper. I ask the High House to support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u238	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the club and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I am the first to invite Mrs Anna Milczanowska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure, print No 732. The purpose of the Act is to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure aimed at clarifying and clarifying the rules governing the procedural rights of victims. The proposed amendment aims at including in the European Commission's proposals for incomplete implementation of the 2012 European Parliament and Council Directive laying down minimum standards on the rights of support and protection of victims of crime and replacing the Council Framework Decision, as well as the December 2011 Directive of the Parliament and Council on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography replacing the 2004 Council Framework Decision. The content of the article under consideration. 49b The Code of Criminal Procedure is intended to lay down the rules of procedure when there are doubts as to the age of the victim under conditions where there is a reasonable presumption that he is a minor. In accordance with this amendment, the rules on minors and victims will apply in the circumstances indicated above. The second proposed amendment requires the criminal investigation authority to examine the circumstances of the case in order to determine the characteristics of the personal conditions of the victim. This is intended to protect the victims' procedural guarantees. In principle, the investigating authority will be obliged to refer to the victim to receive a statement from him on his willingness to benefit from the institutions indicated in the proposed provision aimed at improving the situation of the victim. The aim of this provision is to emphasise the obligation of an individual approach to the victim of violence by the criminal investigation authority. Since the proposed provisions aim to improve the position of victims in criminal proceedings and the adoption of the provisions in the form presented is intended to fully and unambiguously implement the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u240	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Mr President, I cordially invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present its position on the draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, contained in print No 732. As the Minister has explained well and in detail, this amendment is dictated by the desire to implement EU rules aimed at guaranteeing the widest possible protection for the victim, in particular to a person under the age of 18. It is clear that the primary responsibility of each State is to ensure clear rules of procedure for each party to the proceedings - whether pre-trial or later judicial - especially in circumstances as sensitive as those in the case of criminal offences where the victim is a minor. And there is a certain gap in the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure, and it is not clear how the authority should proceed in such cases. The proposed amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure therefore appears to be a good and worthy proposal. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club requests that this project be submitted to the committees for further work. We will, of course, be actively involved in them. If there are no adverse changes to this bill, the Civic Coalition Club declares its support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u242	Thank you, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left. And Mr Krzysztof Paszyk is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting the position of the club on behalf of the club on the draft law amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure. As we read in the submission, the project aims to implement European Union law. The draft submitted introduces amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure which clarify and clarify the provisions already in force relating to procedural guarantees for victims. The need for these changes is linked to the fulfilment of obligations under the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council: establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. These amendments aim to take into account the European Commission's proposals in the framework of infringement procedures for the incomplete implementation of the Directives so far. In Polish law, the provisions currently contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure already apply most of the provisions of the directives mentioned above. These are among others. provisions concerning the right of the victim to information about his rights and to information on proceedings, the right to translation, including the notification of the offence in the language of the victim, the right to be heard, to legal assistance, to reimbursement of expenses incurred, to compensation, to protection measures, and, moreover, the Code of Criminal Enforcement on the Fund for Victims and Post-Penitentiary Assistance, intended to provide assistance to the victims, including material and intangible assistance, in the form of legal or psychological advice. The same is true of the next directive, which is reflected in a number of laws, including the abovementioned Criminal Code on Sexual Crime or the Code of Criminal Procedure on the Rights of Victims of Children, including the special mode of interrogation, the recording of such hearings, and the Act of 29 July 2005 on the Prevention of Family Violence, which also implements the provisions of the Anti-violence Convention. Many of the current laws in our country, including those necessary from the perspective of the victims, those rights guaranteed today by law, which may seem obvious and fundamental, have gained thanks to our presence in the European Union so far, by adapting the Polish right to EU law. Thanks to our presence in the European Union, not only our road infrastructure is improving, the municipalities are receiving funding, farmers are receiving subsidies, and schools are being warmed up and expanded. These are not just financial issues with which we probably associate the European Union so much at the moment in the context of a veto towards the budget or such an important reconstruction fund. The European Union is not only money, but it is also important European values for us. It is the rule of law, it is human rights, and, as in this case, the rights of the victims. The proposed law introduces a point-by-point amendment of the current legislation. And yes, it is proposed to introduce a new article. 49b and Art. 52a in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The proposed provisions aim to improve the situation of victims, including the establishment of a presumption of age for victims, in order to extend the application of specific standards to victims under 18 to persons whose age cannot be established - e.g. foreigners whose identity is unknown - and their physical and mental characteristics may indicate that they are minors. Another of these provisions provides for the receipt of a statement from the victim as to whether he wishes to apply the measures provided for in the provisions, unless the application of a measure is mandatory or the investigating authority is acting on a request from the victim. As these are positive changes in favour of victims, including the youngest ones in particular, up to the age of 18, the Left Club supports this submission and will vote in favour of referring this project to work in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u244	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. I did it brilliantly, you'll admit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u245	Thank you very much, marshal, for giving me the full name of the parliamentary club, which I have the honour of representing. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like to present the position of the Coalition Poland club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure, contained in the sejm print no. 732. This proposal clarifies and clarifies the existing provisions relating to procedural guarantees for victims. It introduces regulations to protect minors victims of crime in accordance with the principle that the hearing authority should always be guided by the welfare of the child. The draft provides for the addition to the Code of Criminal Procedure of Article. 49b containing a presumption of age for the victim and Article. 52a, which would directly oblige the Authority to carry out an assessment of the individual and special treatment of the victim in criminal proceedings. Following changes in case of doubt as to the age of the victim, procedural rights such as those of minors will have to be applied to him. The project's solutions sanction the existing practice of individual assessment for the victim and indicate the need for special treatment of the victim in criminal proceedings. The individual assessment is to take into account e.g.: personal characteristics of the victim, the nature, nature and circumstances of the crime, the extent of the damage suffered, and the relationship between the victim and the perpetrator. This evaluation should also take into account the views, concerns and needs of the victim. The very important element of this submission, which is the implementation of European Union legislation, should also be added. And here, Minister, such a digression. Excuse me, sir, but lately, your fellow Members from the political environment that you represent have fallen into public space many different untruths, critical opinions towards the European Union. So it is also worth to appreciate that there are also sensible, sensible and right solutions from this poor Union that come into our legislation, do no harm, force no one to do anything, and serve, I think, those to whom this regulation will apply. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The proposed revision of the Code of Criminal Procedure is the implementation of two directives of the European Union, inspired by the concern to protect children from sexual abuse, in particular the directive on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. The Polish legal system already presents a fairly high standard of dealing with victims of this type of crime, but the rules proposed by the European Union do not look bad. There is a presumption in the case of people whose age cannot be determined to treat them as minors and therefore to apply higher standards of protection, greater sensitivity to victims of this type of crime, especially as regards victims whose identity is difficult to identify, and so this may apply to the situation of children kidnapped - children or young people, because when we talk about the problem of determining the age of victims, this applies to younger people or young people on the border of adulthood and just young people under special legal protection - then these may be situations of international trafficking in human beings and it is worthwhile to raise the standard of protection as much as possible. This is a minor technical change in the Code of Criminal Procedure, and on this occasion it is worth looking at the implementation of the announcements of the ruling party in the area of protection of people who are victims of paedophile crimes. Let me quote here. At the electoral convention before the European Parliament elections in Szczecin on 12 May 2019, PiS leader Jarosław Kaczyński, unfortunately absent from the Chamber at the moment, said: We want to be really harsh on these issues, mercilessly harsh. Not a high rank in any organization, including the church, nor even the Nobel Prize, nor anything else. does not release responsibility in such cases. As a result, in June 2019 the ruling party submitted a draft amendment to the Penal Code in the Sejm, which assumes, inter alia, that for the rape of a child, a paedophile will go to prison for up to 30 years. The most disturbed perpetrators will be facing a life sentence, and the most serious paedophile crimes will never be statute-barred. And then what happened, ladies and gentlemen? Let's remind you of what happened. In the legislative chaos, the project was carried out by the Sejm in an incorrect, extremely hasty way, which makes it incorrect. President Andrzej Duda raised serious doubts as to whether the draft had been adopted correctly in the Sejm and referred the matter to the Constitutional Tribunal. Constitutional Tribunal 14 July this year in its judgment signed by KP 1/19, it considered that the law was incompatible with the Constitution not because of its content, but because of the legislative mess that has taken place here in the House, and this project has gone to the legislative dumpster, it has never entered into force. The ruling party did not re-submit those provisions in order to be adopted in the Sejm, and the public forgot about the matter. Let me also remind you that we have waited just as many months for the appointment of members of the National Commission for the explanation of cases of pedophilia and the work of this committee is actually just beginning, after such a long discussion on this subject, a body whose appointment should be commended, but which starts working a year after the provisions on its creation were adopted in the House. In addition to prevention and the ruthless prosecution of paedophile crimes against minors, it is also worth to lean on the problems of caring for the victims. The general state of child psychiatry in Poland, as we all know as a result of the ongoing debate, is grieved. Children with trauma resulting from sexual abuse, crimes and paedophile crimes then have no access to good care, good therapy that would allow them to get out of this trauma. This is also a problem which here in the Seym should be raised and should sound. In addition to such cosmetic legal changes resulting from the implementation of EU legislation as today, we also need to touch on the subject of too fast, too easy statute of paedophile offences and too easy a way to avoid punishment for hiding such crimes. We'll get back to these things. Much more comprehensive legislative changes are needed here. The ruling party announced such changes, unfortunately they are gone, no one (the bell) remembers it at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u248	Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. The first question is asked by Mrs Joanna Fabisiak from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. I'll set 1 minute to ask questions, but if you drag it out, it won't be a problem. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill is designed to improve the situation of the victim. This bill is needed and good. However, my doubts are raised by the fact of the hearing and I ask you to answer specifically the question whether the prosecutors... So far, prosecutors are not specialized, so it is possible that in the morning the prosecutor will investigate the crime, at noon on the economic case, and in the afternoon he will question the injured child. The extreme sensitivity of such a hearing certainly requires the preparation of the person who will carry it out. So the question is, will the prosecutors be prepared? At present, they are not, and they tell me, mothers who are struggling with such a problem. So will they, or will this bill be merely theoretical? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u250	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Buj, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law amending the law The Code of Criminal Procedure is intended to implement the law of the European Union. The aim is to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure to clarify and clarify the existing provisions relating to the procedural guarantees available to the victim. Everything is okay, as the Minister said here, when he mentioned the justification for the bill. Just two questions. The Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the subject is from 2012. Why, then, do we make these changes 8 years after the adoption of the directive? How many minors have been exposed in this way to defective conduct at this time? I would be very pleased to hear from the Minister a few words of explanation on this matter, Minister, and homie. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u252	Mr President, as you will be pleased to hear the answer, the Minister will be pleased to give it. We have the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Minister Marcin Warchoł. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u253	Thank you very much. I'll begin, Marshal, High Izbo, with the second question. These directives were implemented by the government of the Civic Platform, so this question is for today's opposition. Why incomplete implementation? And since there is incomplete implementation, we know today from the information obtained from the bodies of the European Union. Indeed, the legal situation in our country is that we have very high standards of protection of the rights of the victims, but they are not yet sufficient. These additional provisions, which we propose, are to raise this standard even more. Okay, let's get to the first question. After all, the court is interrogating a minor victim in a case for certain categories of crime. This is to be done only once during the preparatory procedure unless specific new circumstances arise or the defendant has not been present during the hearing of his defender. Then you can re-interrogate it. This is to protect against secondary victimisation, so that such a child does not drag again before the justice system, later to court, often after several years, as this child is traumatized, and this trauma often for years. Crimes of abuse, pedophilia. These are traumatic events that stay for the rest of your life. That is why we are absolutely consistently in favour of combating paedophile crimes - here I am addressing Mr Bosak - of course, yes, and the expression of this is the Penal Code, which we spoke about here a year ago. In this Penal Code, we will absolutely propose that the limitation of paedophile offences or a number of other tightenings in this respect be re-established. The victim, I say, stays traumatized for life. The perpetrator will often be punished for several years of imprisonment, while the victim has a life sentence, and he must suffer this pain for the rest of his life. I answer the question directly to the honourable Member: that is indeed what the court does, but where the prosecutor is hearing it, we already have training at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office for Psychology of the hearing and a number of other activities in this area, which are aimed at protecting such an interrogated child from secondary victimisation. So that it is realized. A number of trainings are taking place in the D.A.'s office, but when it comes to specialization, we introduced it. Let me remind you that economic crimes, VAT, today are being prosecuted by regional prosecutors. These prosecutors are the most qualified prosecutors, so we're so successful, the National Attorney's Office is so successful. There is no longer a situation today that the District Attorney's Office is investigating driving by a drunk driver, and in a moment, an organized criminal group, e.g. VAT. These crimes are being dealt with in other prosecutors' offices today. Similarly, a number of other crimes have been taken out of the D.A.'s office. Weed cases, drug mob cases, drug cases -- these are specializations today. We have introduced these specializations thanks to the reform of Minister Zbigniew Ziebra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u254	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer a draft law amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure, contained in print No 732, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm, based on the article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the report by the committee by 14 December 2020. High Seym! I'm declaring a time-out. 17. After the break, we'll start with the votes. Therefore, I wanted to say goodbye to you by the hour. 17. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 49 hours 17 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. Your Marshal, I'd like to make a formal motion, and the gentlemen of the Marshal's Guard won't let me in because I have a limit. I have no way of exercising my mandate. And what formal conclusion do you wish to make? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 429 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. We proceed to item 10 of the agenda... Formal motion, if you don't mind, Marshal. It's about calling a committee. Mr President, we have discussed this. I'm not announcing a break. You want to file a request for a recess. I'm not announcing a break. We're at the polls. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Half a minute, sir, half a minute. Well, talk fast. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u255	Dear Marshal! I wanted to make a formal request to convene three joint committees. The tourism, gastronomic industry was omitted by the state in providing financial assistance. That's not true. The owners of guesthouses, hotels, private accommodations, mostly family businesses do not have the opportunity to benefit from the aid. This is the tragedy of thousands of Polish families today. I call for three joint committees to be convened to grant financial assistance to the industry that is dying today and asking for help. I would therefore ask that this request be taken into account, also in order to extend [[♪ The bell ♪]] the term of the spring break. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u256	Thank you, sir. Mr President, this is not a legislative proposal: to convene a committee. You know that very well. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (prints No 789 and 807). I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in print No 807 on the resolution of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws, printing No 789. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the Marshal of the Sejm sent on 30 November 2020 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering 451 amendments at its meeting on 3 December 2020, recommends adopting 71 amendments and rejecting 380 amendments in accordance with print No 807. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u258	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 441. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 the amending act, including amendments to the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes to add an article. 8g. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 229 - for, 164 - against, 47 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to Article. 11i paragraph. Point 4 (3) and paragraph 4. 6. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 3, 4, 68, 70, 72, 74, 223, 227, 293, 432, 435, 440 and 441. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against these amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 2 for, against -441, 1 abstained. The Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of the votes in favour, accepted the amendment. In the 5th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. Amendments to Article 15gga lips. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 227 - for, against - 214, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 77, 155, 230, 297 and 370. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 6, 77, 155, 230, 297 and 370, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 230 for, 216 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 78, 156, 231, 298 and 371. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 7, 78, 156, 231, 298 and 371 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 230 for, 216 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 8th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 79, 157, 232, 299 and 372. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 8, 79, 157, 232, 299 and 372, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 231 - for, 213 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 80, 158, 233, 300 and 373. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 9, 80, 158, 233, 300 and 373 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 215, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 10th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 81, 159, 234, 301 and 374. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 10, 81, 159, 234, 301 and 374 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 229 - for, 217 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 11, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 82, 160, 235, 302 and 375. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 11, 82, 160, 235, 302 and 375, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 219 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In Amendment 12, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 83, 161, 236, 303 and 376. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 12, 83, 161, 236, 303 and 376 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 238 for, 207 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 84, 162, 237, 304 and 377. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 13, 84, 162, 237, 304 and 377, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 240 for, 210 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 14th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 90, 163, 238, 305 and 378. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 14, 90, 163, 238, 305 and 378, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 230 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 15th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 85., 164., 239., 306. and 379. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 15, 85, 164, 239, 306 and 379 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 228 for, 216 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 16th Amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 86, 165, 240, 307 and 380. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 16, 86, 165, 240, 307 and 380 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 230 for, 220 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 17th Amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 87., 166., 241., 308. and 381. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 17, 87, 166, 241, 308 and 381, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 228 - for, against - 220, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 18th Amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 88, 167, 242, 309 and 382. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 18, 88, 167, 242, 309 and 382, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 230 for, 219 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 19th Amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 89, 168, 243, 310 and 383. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 19, 89, 168, 243, 310 and 383, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 228 - for, 218 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 20th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 91, 169, 244, 311 and 384. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 20, 91, 169, 244, 311 and 384 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 21st Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 92, 170, 245, 312 and 385. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 21, 92, 170, 245, 312, 385, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 218 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 22nd Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 93, 171, 246, 313 and 386. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 22, 93, 171, 246, 313 and 386 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 229 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 23rd amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 94, 172, 247, 314 and 387. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 23, 94, 172, 247, 314 and 387 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 229 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 24th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 95, 173, 248, 315 and 388. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 24, 95, 173, 248, 315 and 388 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 230 for, 219 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 25th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 96, 174, 249, 316 and 389. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 25, 96, 174, 249, 316 and 389, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 26th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 97., 175., 250., 317. and 390. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 26, 97, 175, 250, 317 and 390 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 232 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 27th amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 176, 251 and 391. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 27, 176, 251 and 391, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 3 for, 446 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 28th Amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 100, 177, 252, 320 and 392. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 28, 100, 177, 252, 320 and 392 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 230 for, 221 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 29th amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 101, 178, 253, 321, 393. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 29, 101, 178, 253, 321 and 393 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 228 - for, against - 222, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 30th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 102, 179, 254, 322 and 394. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 30, 102, 179, 254, 322 and 394, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 31st amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 103, 180, 255, 323 and 395. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 31, 103, 180, 255, 323 and 395, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 230 for, 223 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 32nd amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 104, 181, 256, 324 and 396. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 32, 104, 181, 256, 324 and 396, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 230 for, 223 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 33rd amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 105, 182, 257, 325 and 397. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 33, 105, 182, 257, 325 and 397 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 232 - for, 222 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 34th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 109, 183, 258, 329 and 398. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 34, 109, 183, 258, 329 and 398 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 233 for, 215 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 35th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 110, 184, 259, 330 and 399. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 35, 110, 184, 259, 330 and 399, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 232 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 36th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 111, 185, 260 and 331. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 36, 111, 185, 260 and 331 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 229 - for, 223 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 37th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 186, 261 and 401. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 37, 186, 261 and 401, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 5 for, 446 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 38th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 112., 187., 262., 332. and 402. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 38, 112, 187, 262, 332 and 402, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 232 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 39th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 188., 263. and 403. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 39, 188, 263 and 403 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 230 for, 222 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 40th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 113, 189, 264, 333, and 404. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 40, 113, 189, 264, 333, and 404 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 228 - for, against - 221, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 41st Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 190, 265 and 405. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. [[Game in the O.R.]] May I see your fellow Members, please? Just keep it down, 'cause I can't hear myself reading, really, it's bothering me. A little bit, at least. Okay? A Member without a mask entered the room. From every side of the room. From every side of the room. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 41, 190, 265 and 405, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 2 for, 447 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 42nd Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 118, 191, 266, 338 and 406. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 42, 118, 191, 266, 338 and 406 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 228 - for, 223 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 43rd amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 119, 192, 267, 339 and 407. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 43, 119, 192, 267, 339 and 407, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 234 for, 219 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 44th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 193, 268 and 408. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 44, 193, 268 and 408, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 8 for, against -443, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 45th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 194, 269 and 409. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 45, 194, 269 and 409 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 1, 446 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 46th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 195, 270 and 410. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 46, 195, 270 and 410, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 3 - for, against - 446, 1 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 47th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 122, 196, 271, 340 and 411. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 47, 122, 196, 271, 340 and 411, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 231 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 48th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 123, 197, 272, 341 and 412. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 48, 123, 197, 272, 341 and 412, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 220, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 49th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 124, 198, 273, 342 and 413. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 49, 124, 198, 273, 342 and 413, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 234 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 50th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 125, 199, 274, 343, and 414. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 50, 125, 199, 274, 343, and 414, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 51st amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 128, 200, 275, 345, and 415. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 51, 128, 200, 275, 345 and 415, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 230 for, 221 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 52nd amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 201, 276 and 416. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 52, 201, 276 and 416, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 231 - for, 223 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 53rd amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 202, 277 and 417. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 53, 202, 277 and 417 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 232 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 54th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 129, 203, 278, 346 and 418. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 54, 129, 203, 278, 346 and 418 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 232 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 55th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 204, 279 and 419. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 55, 204, 279 and 419 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 56th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 205, 280 and 420. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 56, 205, 280 and 420 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 5 for, against - 449, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 57th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 131, 206, 281, 347 and 421. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 57, 131, 206, 281, 347 and 421, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 227 for, 222 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 58th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 132, 282 and 348. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 58, 132, 282 and 348 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 230 for, against - 222, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 59th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 133, 207, 283, 349 and 422. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 59, 133, 207, 283, 349 and 422 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 230 for, 220 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 60th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 135, 208, 284, 350 and 423. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 60, 135, 208, 284, 350 and 423 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 230 for, 220 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 61st amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 143, 209, 285, 358 and 424. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 61, 143, 209, 285, 358 and 424 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 230 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 62nd Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 144, 210, 286, 359 and 425. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 62, 144, 210, 286, 359 and 425, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 63rd amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 145, 213, 287 and 426. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 63, 145, 213, 287 and 426 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 229 - for, 217 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 64th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 146, 214, 288, 360 and 427. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 64, 146, 214, 288, 360 and 427 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 229 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 65th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 148, 215, 289, 362 and 428. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 65, 148, 215, 289, 362 and 428 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 226 - for, 216 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 66th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 219, 290 and 429. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 66, 219, 290 and 429 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Six for, 440 against, one abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 67th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15gga lips. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 153., 220., 291., 367. and 430. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 67, 153, 220, 291, 367 and 430, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 229 - for, 217 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. 69. amendment to Article. 15gga Senate proposes adding paragraph. 1a and amendments to paragraph 1. 2 and paragraph 2. 6 point 2. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendments 221 and 292. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 69, 221 and 292, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 71st amendment to Article. 15gga The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. Point 6 (7) and the addition of paragraph 6. 11a and the deletion of paragraph 11a. 24. Together with this amendment, we will vote on amendments 73 and 294. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 71, 73 and 294 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 6 for, 442 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 75th amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 15p paragraph. 1 and Article 1 Article 15q (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall apply. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 75th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 2 for, 445 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 76th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 15zoaa. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 76th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, 447 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 98th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs (1). Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 318th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 98 and 318 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 99th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs (1). Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 319th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 99 and 319 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 228 - for, 217 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 106th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs (1). Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendment 326. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 106th and 326th will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 229 - for, 217 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 107th Amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of Article. 15zs (1). Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 327th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 107 and 327 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 230 for, 222 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 108th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs (1). Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendment 328. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 108 and 328 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 230 for, 220 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 114th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendment 334. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 114 and 334 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 231 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 115th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendment 335. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 115 and 335, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 116th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on Amendment 336. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 116th and 336th will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 231 - for, 222 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 117th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 337th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 117 and 337 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 229 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 120th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 120th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 216 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 121st amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 121st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 232 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 126th Amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of Article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 344th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 126 and 344 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 233 for, 215 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 127th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 127th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 233 - for, 217 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 130th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 130th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 134th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 134th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 220 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 136th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 351st amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 136 and 351, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 137th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 352th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 137 and 352 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 138th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 355th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 138 and 355 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 231 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 139th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 353th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 139 and 353 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 230 for, 221 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 140th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 354th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 140 and 354 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 230 for, 220 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 141st Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 356th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 141 and 356 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 232 for, 215 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 142nd amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 357th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 142 and 357 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 229 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 147th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 361st amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 147 and 361, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 222 - for, 225 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 149th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 363th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 149 and 363 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 232 - for, against - 219, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 150th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 364th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 150 and 364 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 230 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 151st amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 365th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 151 and 365 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 232 for, 215 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 152nd amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of Article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 366th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 152 and 366 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 - for, 218 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In 154th Amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of the article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 368th amendment. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 154 and 368, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 227 for, 219 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where we stop this part of the vote. I'll announce a recess by the hour. 20. About an hour. There will be a point on the vote and a follow-up vote at 20 o'clock. 21. I'm declaring a time-out. 20. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 52 hrs. 20 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński (prints Nos 797 and 811). I would ask the representative of Boris Budka's applicants to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 47,000. 47,000. people who will never see their children, their grandchildren, their parents again. By the end of November, 47 thousand died in Poland. more people than in the same period of the previous year. By the end of this year, it'll be over 60,000. More deaths. It's like suddenly Ełk, Bełchatów or Pruszków disappeared from the map of Poland. And this is personally a burden on you, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Kaczyński, because you are responsible for the safety of Poles. [[Applause]] Hypocritical. Who took people out on the streets? Scandal! I wish you'd dream these numbers at night. I want you to finally understand that playing the security of Poles is treason. You guys have experience. Don't take people out on the streets. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You had time to prepare Poland for the second wave of pandemic. Instead, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you chose party games... It wasn't supposed to be... ...you chose to push, to fight for stools, instead of to equip hospitals instead of to reward the medics, rather than to deal with what the responsible politicians are called to do. Your conscience is also affected by thousands of Polish workers being fired, thousands of closed companies, because instead of helping entrepreneurs, you took care of yourselves. [[Applause]] And finally, Mr. Vice Prime Minister responsible for security, since 6 October this year, the only person whose safety has improved is yourself. [[Applause]] Bravo! These are dozens of police cars guarding your place of residence, thousands of police officers pulled from all over Poland just to provide you with mental comfort. Yes, sir. Shame. This is your personal shame. [[Applause]] Shame! And a vest. In order to distract the public from all these negligence, you started the hell of women in Poland. An addicted pseudo-Tribal of yours has issued an inhuman judgment, a ruling that is against the dignity and fundamental rights of women... Constitution. ...a judgment that dictates heroism over human measure. But why did you do it? Well, you only did it because you couldn't handle the pandemic and the crisis. You wanted to cover your own incompetence and incompetence of your own camp. And then what? The grotesque speech in which you called for hatred? Smacking women? Using gas for messengers? When? Don't lie to me. Disgraceful! You arranged for a reconstruction of martial law in the streets of Poland. Oh... Bravo! I don't want to remind you who slept till noon 39 years ago. [[Applause]] Bravo! Yes. But that wasn't enough for you, which is why you started a war with the European Union. You have also decided to argue Poles with our partners in the European Community. But today we know that even this conflict was made public, only to hide your helplessness. We know that weeks of charging the image of Poland in the European Union, destroying the positive achievements of generations were needed for what? To justify the compromise which will be presented by the German Presidency and was brought here, to Poland, by your envoy, who might as well be the envoy of Putin, the Prime Minister of Hungary. Shame, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] I hope that tomorrow, in spite of all these bad suggestions, Prime Minister Morawiecki will sign up for a good European budget, but unfortunately the damage to Poland's opinion will continue for years, because once the ruined trust cannot be restored so quickly. You achieved all this at the expense of the fact that the public and our partners in the European Union consider the Polish government to be an adventurer, even a Russian agent in the European Union. Something like that. I would like to inform you that this opinion is not entirely different from what millions of Poles have about you. You'll be settled for all this, but your time is up. [[Applause]] It's over. You know this very well and you also know the politicians of the United Right, who are sitting next to you today in Parliament's benches. But they often rebel against you, not just in private conversations with us, but openly. Why? Because your time is up. Prime Minister Morawiecki knows that, the Minister of Justice knows that, which is why they are fighting so hard to get after you. But citizens also understand that. 70% The Poles and Poles want you to resign. [[Applause]] That's a number that should be a shame to you. But this is the end of the divisions you create, the end of the Enemies Age. You end this political career as a grotesque figure. Because you turned out to be everything you promised to fight. You created the real deal, you became the symbol of the elites separated from reality, you made Poland weak and isolated, you led Poland to ruin. You have long been in conflict not only with common sense, but also with the interests of Poland... Go for a walk. ...as well as the ideals you once proclaimed. You trampled on the values on which you and your brother built a political law and justice project 20 years ago. And with that consciousness, I'm leaving you. [[Applause]] But enough about you. It is time to talk about Poland, which will no longer be organized by the president of PiS. The Poles are awake. You can see that every step of the way. You can see it on the streets, you can see it on the net. Millions of citizens and citizens who want to live in a different country, a country created by them and for them, for everyone have come to the floor. They want Poland based on cooperation, Poland clear procedures and strong institutions, a government that does not multiply problems, but solves them. And to those of you who are protesting on the streets right now, fighting for your rights, I want to be clear: thank you, but we're sorry too. We're not without guilt either. For too long, we have allowed Jarosław Kaczyński to lead us by the nose so that all politics will be centered around the fights he has directed. We gave ourselves the face of total opposition and anti-PiS. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's time to stop. It is time to gather Poles around positive ideas. After more than five years of destroying social ties, destroying relations from family level to Europe... Cabaret. ...we all deserve a new project, a project that will restore Poles hope. [[Applause]] Bravo! We have to work together. The Civic Coalition, the Left, the people, the non-committal movements, but also some of you, the politicians of the United Right, because for many of you the good of Poland is also the most important. Impossible, impossible. Now you feel lost and powerless in this festival of accusations, negligence and fanaticism. Ladies and gentlemen! This vote of distrust is not against you. On the contrary, because just as we need a new opening, dialogue and cooperation today, because we can only save Poland together. Remember the values for which you went for politics. Do you want the good of the Polish family in the city and in the countryside, strong Poland in Europe, a functioning state, fighting corruption? Yes. Today at the head of your coalition is the man who cynically tramples on these values, the man who betrayed your ideals. [[Applause]] I want to assure you from this place that even if you have the majority here today, you do not have the majority in the streets of Polish cities and in the hearts of this majority. Bravo! Poland needs new elections and we will do our best to settle Poles as soon as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u260	I now ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński to present the opinion of the committee. Oh, the first chairman of the BOR committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Your Marshal of the Sejm based on Art. 116... Up the hood, up the hood, up the hood, up the hood, up ...pt. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the motion of the Members of the Civic Coalition and the Left, on a vote of distrust towards the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, addressed to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which has been sitting all day, for more than 8 hours, at two meetings connected with each other thematically, intentionally and emotionally. I mention this because this action was first prepared during this first committee meeting... It's confetti. ...to judge from the honor and faith of a person... This is not a report. ...who are responsible for security in Poland... I don't think he's talking about this committee at all. Chief of Police, Minister of Interior and Administration, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. The way in which this committee meeting was conducted led to the fact that it was difficult to find the time to refer to the absurd allegations which appeared in very numerous speeches. Get to the point. And then, at this second committee meeting just now, a proposal was presented by Mr Adam Szłapka on the vote of distrust towards Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, which was later published for the votes of many Members of the opposition. The majority of the members of the committee considered that the proposal was unfounded, unfounded in substance, [[Applause]] Missed formally and politically and voted against it. And this is the rapporteur. 20 votes in favour of a negative opinion, 14 votes in favour of a positive opinion of the proposal. Mr Adam Szłapka with no less political hatred than you have now done to the club president... I didn't call anybody a cheating face. ...he presented this motion. He was, he was... Take the telescopic baton. He was full of insulting statements, lies, invectives. Confetti. And this way of presenting the proposal was distinguished by the fact that Mr Szłapka was still threatening. Oh... I had to protest against it, there was some controversy, but that's how it is, ladies and gentlemen. We had the impression that with this motion, the motion for a vote of distrust for Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, you want to react to your frustrations... This is not a report. ...your lost choices, that you can't go back to power because society doesn't want you. So you want to do everything (Gwar in the Chamber) with this extended proposal, assigning to the Prime Minister (Dawn) Jarosław Kaczyński everything that is possible, the whole evil of this world, of course, interpreted in a manner that is right for you. And this was supposed to be the committee's report, not... There it is. It was at the committee meeting. You could also say that you attributed him 10 Egyptian plagues. But, ladies and gentlemen, you can't settle for a motion of distrust that Law and Justice have won parliamentary elections, not you. Who are you? The public thanked you a long time ago. And unfortunately there is no, there was no, among the Members of the Civic Coalition - here to the highest degree, similarly, but maybe to a lesser extent, as far as the Left is concerned - no reflection. This discussion didn't work, it was very emotional. You stayed with your invectives, your insulting statements, your lies, your unfounded accusations... But what do you mean? ...and we just now have a climax in the form of what the club president said. You're supposed to be opening the yard, and you're closing it. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, I repeat: the committee has given a negative opinion on the proposal and could not have done otherwise, because the proposal is unfounded, meaningless, appalling and misguided. [[Applause]] Lie! It's just a lie.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u262	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the And you gave yourself this report to the committee. ...and Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Shut up. I'll advise you. Mr. Marshal... On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Mr Sylvester Tułaev will now speak. Mr Marshal, Mr Zieliński has not really spoken many times. Well, Mr. Budka lied, too, and nothing came of it. [[Joy in the Chamber]] He accused me of things that didn't happen at the committee meeting. Liar!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u263	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! The COVID-19 Pandemic changed our whole lives, changed the whole world. Everything is different, the only thing that hasn't changed is... PiS mess. ...action of the opposition in Poland. The request submitted by you is completely unfounded, non-essential and frivolous. This conclusion makes absolutely no sense. Once again, you have nothing to offer. You have nothing to offer but an attack. When President Jarosław Kaczyński was to become Deputy Prime Minister, even before he officially received the nomination, you already wanted to cancel him, in principle, no matter what the political upheaval for. This is the best way to show what this proposal really is. You haven't changed a bit, you're still a total opposition without an idea, without the will to support the state... Someone wrote it. ...with the only program to remove the PiS from power. In your application, Kaczyński's name falls nearly 50 times... Whose rain is it supposed to be? What do you want us to write? Bierut? ... Poland or Poles - much, much less. This is the best summary of what this is all about. We deal with matters of Poles, solve their problems. You are constantly dealing with the President of Jarosław Kaczyński and Law and Justice. There is no doubt, High Izbo, that matters of the security of Poland, the security of citizens are extremely important to our leader, especially at this particular time of pandemic. 40,000 deaths. The burden of individual ministries lies with specific ministers, and the role of President Kaczyński in the government is needed for coordination and cooperation to be due. The honeymoon's here. This coherent and efficient operation is very necessary today, it is needed as never before and gives concrete results. Today, all services cooperate, cooperate and support in activities, especially at this specific time, a pandemic time. Speaking of safety, it is worth recalling what happened in 2015 and mentioning the actions of President Jarosław Kaczyński at that time. It was then that President Jarosław Kaczyński was the first to have the courage to oppose the forced relocation of migrants, to which the Civic Platform agreed. [[Applause]] We all remember that. Yeah, yeah. Let's hear it! He was talking about the protozoans. We remember these words, these assurances of the leaders of the Civic Platform: we will accept every amount. It was President Jarosław Kaczyński in this Chamber who warned against the negative effects of such action. Today we see who was right. But how many attacks there were then, how much hatred there was then. Ladies and gentlemen, it was Mr Jarosław Kaczyński who protected Poland from such events as we saw in France, as we saw in Germany, in other countries of Western Europe. Only us, Poland and Russia are safe. If you had any honor, you'd apologize for those attacks today. [[Applause]] Come out on the street, man. Yes, sir. More than 20,000 have been involved in pandemic activities since March 2020. Those are the soldiers of the Territorial Defense Army. Today it's over 6,000. volunteers who are, who are, who work with the police, the health services, the fire department, the gendarmes, support these services. Today it is difficult to imagine the existence and such activities without the Territorial Defence Army. Stop scaring us. What was the Civic Platform doing? You mocked the soldiers of the volunteers and the whole formation. You called them the weekend army. You said it was impossible for these soldiers to trust anything serious. Apologize now. They count patients in hospitals. If you have any honor, today you should apologize for those vile attacks on the entire formation of the Territorial Defence Army. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. The security plan for Poland, which is implemented by the President Jarosław Kaczyński and the Government of the United Right, are measurable figures and real actions. 40,000. More deaths. I watched it during my work as Deputy Minister of Interior and Administration. I admire the work of Polish policemen - heroes of times of peace. [[Applause]] Thanks to their hard and professional work Poland is safe, citizens are safe. It is thanks to this policy of our leader Jarosław Kaczyński that the vast majority of citizens feel safe. The trust in the police was equally high until recently, but unfortunately today this trust is being destroyed by you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, because of you guys. By Kaczynski. I would like to make it clear that the hand raised to the police officer is the hand raised to the Polish state and you were involved in this vile attack. [[Applause]] I'm ashamed of you. Everyone has the right to express discontent. Over the past few years, the police have protected every such manifestation, no matter what the views expressed during such manifestations have been. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who wrote this to you? But not during the pandemic, because it's a threat. Time. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that you must learn that the execution of a Member's mandate is not about stopping traffic on the street... Mr... ...on a run-in with the police. No I.D. is exempt from law enforcement. [[Applause]] Unless it's a PiS card. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to appeal to the opposition and make it clear that we will not support this proposal. Mr... This conclusion is completely unfounded, unfounded. Time's up. And my advice: less about the President of Jarosław Kaczyński and about Law and Justice, and more about Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u264	On behalf of... Let me answer what the Member said... On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Monika Wielichowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u265	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Security is a state of certainty and a guarantee of its behaviour. So much for theory. Because practice shows that Jarosław Kaczyński sees them backwards. This is the first vice-president in the history of civilized states on security issues, who is involved in the sowing of hatred, who wants citizens to live in an atmosphere of martial law, which during the pandemic arouses protests and, heating up emotions, makes police operations brute. [[Applause]] Lie! The police, who have suffered a huge crisis of social trust. We've all seen undercover guys hit with telescopic sticks and treat women with gas. We all see the police intimidating women and organizing bribes for protesters. [[Applause]] We saw women lying on the street. The stick in the hand of a policeman is an incriminating symbol, an expression of retaliation on a nation that he does not understand and respect. Bravo. Such behavior brings to mind the crazyness of power known from history: the power that carried out psychopathic orders, destroying the country, society and democracy, the power that the failing regime raised hands on the citizens, raising hands on women. This is Kaczyński's fear, the fear of women, the fear of citizens, the fear of society as a whole. Safety is also health safety. Without a strategy to fight the pandemic, health care is now in chaos, without human resources and needed funding. When county hospitals fight for survival, power melts millions at the National Hospital, which is filled with propaganda instead of patients. [[Applause]] The security of entrepreneurs who suffered in the pandemic, also Jarosław Kaczyński did not build . Many industries will not survive, many sectors will fall. Safe Poland is Poland in the European Union. Jarosław Kaczyński is the author of Poland's conflicting policy with Europe. With the Hungarian Prime Minister sympathetic to Putin, they are implementing the Russian strategy of breaking up the European Union. It's all a denial of security. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Kukiz, too. In less than two months, you've done as much bad as other bad politicians have done for years. It's a scary record. In 2 months you finally conflicted with Poles, led Poles to the street and buried the remains of Poland's relations with the European Union. Amazing. From this Jarosław Kaczyński will be settled. This will be remembered by Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! It is a disgrace to Poland that someone who hates Poles and Poles is in government. It is a disgrace to Poland that such someone is responsible for the safety of Poles. What are you talking about, woman? Quiet. Jarosław Kaczyński has lost control of everything. He doesn't even control his own emotions. These furies, it's crazy to call them. This behavior must be assessed not only politically. We issue this assessment by applying for a vote of distrust towards the Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński - a man who is squandering Poles against himself on a large scale. Fear is given to the Deputy Prime Minister who screams that we're going to be in jail because he's afraid of prison. He's screaming that we have blood on our hands to deny our own guilt against the nation. We apply for a vote of distrust in order to defend Poland against Jarosław Kaczyński and his behaviour. [[Applause]] Through the vote we address the Members of the PIS: courage, let your leader know that he no longer controls absolutely nothing, and this threatens the life and health of Poles and Poles. And you can't let that happen. Heal yourself, woman. Remember, your agreement is your responsibility. Enough with the scare. And at the end - Mr.Jarosławie Kaczyński, trampling on the rule of law, you built full of divisions, hatred, ideologies and propaganda of Poland. You're gonna answer for everything. Now formally as Deputy Prime Minister. Prime Minister. Get down from there. Probably not today, but soon. [[Applause]] Why aren't you responding?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u266	Member Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Prime Minister Kaczyński once said he would like to be a retired savior of the nation. Today, reality has verified your words. Since you became Deputy Prime Minister, since October, there have been over 3.5,000. protests against your governments. Nearly 1.5 million people participated. [[Applause]] Then, 26 years ago, did you want Poland divided into better and worse sort? Did you want Poland where politicians in hand with the Church want to torture women? Oh, my gosh. Did you want a country where residents are deprived of an independent court, judges are harassed, and the superprocurator is covering for criminals? [[Applause]] Did you want Poland, in which the Sejm is a dummy, a voting machine? Did you want Poland with smog and burnt fire? Because only you in Europe, Prime Minister, only you in Europe vetoes the climate today. Did you want Poland, in which law is lawlessness and justice - injustice? Yes, today we know that's what you wanted. A veto for you, Prime Minister. Just for Poland, Prime Minister. [[The joy, the excitement in the room.]] [[Mr Urszula Zielińska develops the flag of the European Union]] Oh... Bravo! Just for the Union, Prime Minister. It's for the Union. [[Applause, ringtone]] Don't turn it off. We want as much time as the PiS had. Get some air, you'll get smarter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u268	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, club of the Left. Are you with some poster too?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u269	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A brave politician faces a committee in which an appeal is pending. And today, the Prime Minister lacked that courage. I remember a few months ago President Kaczyński entered the government to be his stabilizer during the crisis and pandemic. But the truth is, you became Deputy Prime Minister to fight the deal, but in your own government. You were supposed to settle disputes, only between your own ministers. You wanted to oversee the Attorney General, but so he wouldn't put your colleagues in jail. And in the end, the Prime Minister is to take care of the interests of his own people who do this business on masks, ventilators or vaccines. You were supposed to be in charge of security, and you were responsible, only for the peace of your party friends and colleagues. If things are different than I say, Prime Minister, what have you fixed in the last few months? Is there no more manual control of the D.A.'s office, sending out letters with instructions on who to put in jail, who not, avoiding the investigation of paedophiles' priests, surveillance of opposition and priests, politicalizing the media, or finally giving up investigations against their own? You think you're close to people, but you're just saying that because today you're an elite who doesn't care about ordinary people. The prime minister of security, instead of organizing the service or the prosecution, dealing with the pandemic, supporting the medics or creating a rescue plan for the economy, manages from his center of the PiS universe in Nowogrodzka and urges his colleagues to veto the EU budget. Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński was supposed to be like the sheriff, like the terror of movies about the Wild West. But you turned out to be a lousy lawman, and you gave the Wild West to the Poles fighting for their rights. On 22 October, Mr Kaczyński gives an order to his personal Constitutional Court to carry out a barbaric attack on women's rights. 5 days later, on October 27th, Mr Kaczyński, irritated by protests, gives his message, calls for violence. It doesn't take long to get the results. A few hours later, a 64-year-old man in Gdynia attacks a group of young people, challenges and shouts political slogans, finally cutting the face of a 23-year-old with a knife. In the following days, groups of masked perpetrators attack protesters in Wrocław, Bialystok and Warsaw. It's your fault. They attack, beat with sticks (the glow in the hall, the bell) and gas the defenseless. Yeah, they're... they're gasping. When protests against women's rights get worse, the Prime Minister closes up at home and surrounds thousands of policemen with cordon. Instead of stepping backwards, you decide to tighten the screw. To suppress protests, you send armed police troops to their teeth, which are often anti-terrorist. The D.A.'s orders are to pursue and harass protest organizers. In the Seym you shout out that the opposition has blood on its hands... It does. ...while cops gas and fuck innocent people here before entering the Sejm at the same time. When we are alarmed that the police have apprehended Mr Kopec, a messenger of Falej, Kucharska-Dziedzic, Vice Marshal of Charzasty, you smile. What were they doing there? When they spray gas in the faces of Beyat and Nowacka's messengers, you say, "They deserved it." You found an enemy in a new generation. That's the board that's gonna show it. [[Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski puts the board on the speaker]] We saw it. That's what you see in him. Young. 17-year-old Małgorzata from Limanowa arrested for organizing a protest, 17-year-old Jacek from Warsaw, 14-year-old from Olsztyn, 14-year-old Maciek from Krapkowice and 16-year-old Ola from Świdnica detained... What have you led to? Kids on the streets. ... 24-year-old Adam. Kids on the street! At your request, the festival of beastly violence continues in the best (Gwar in the hall, bell) and no one is held responsible for it. And it's the Marshal of the Seym so... You don't have empathy. But you have a full backpack of hate. The symbol of your government and your second term of office is the telescopic baton. Truth in the eyes of the circle. Those who do not know how to take responsibility should not perform their national functions. Jarosław Kaczyński today is a bundle of nerves. It's all about anger and revenge. Jarosław Kaczyński, instead of building security, is today an architect of violence. It's time to stop this crazy dance. That is why the Left will vote for you to complete your mission and stop being Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u270	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland - PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Listen to Poles, change Poland - it used to be your password. As you listen to Poles, we know - after the number of protests and social groups that participate in these protests, from farmers to entrepreneurs, from women to people with disabilities. Men. There has been a great deal about how you are changing Poland today. You have demanded that there should be more about Poland in this debate today, and you will now hear the truth about how this Poland has changed in recent years - according to the principle: to divide and own. Divide and patronize. Divide into a better and worse sort. The division of medics, true heroes of modern Poland, among those who belong to additives, and those to whom money was collected a week ago. [[Applause]] You have divided employers and entrepreneurs according to PKD, not according to the size of the losses that COVID is suffering, and you have not given them support. Yesterday you divided the local government into those who had the PiS card and got the money from the local investment fund, and those who do not have this card - and the citizens of this civic community deserve nothing. [[Applause]] Lies! You've divided the press and the media. You have divided journalists into those who answer questions and those who are fucked up at press conferences. [[Applause]] You've divided the media into those that are patriotic, and the ones that are, you know, from the hidden option. You've even divided the Circles of Rural Housewives - into the ones that belong to the grants, and the ones that didn't register in the Arimr and whose grants didn't date. [[Applause]] But that's a lie. But, worst of all, you have divided Poland, you have divided our beloved country. You have divided in such a way that there is no guarantee of security, because it is not the number of F-35 that guarantees security, but the community of Poles, the national community, aware of their rights and obligations of the nation. And you, this nation, have broken this community. [[Applause]] You own the state institutions from which you made the PiS farm, the courts from which justice is a fugitive, the media, which is your propaganda tube. You've now added an oil company that's supposed to be a propaganda company. The election campaign is over. You have divided and owned the Treasury companies and all the places that are there. You're taking over history because you think it's starting in 2015. But, the worst thing for believers, for the Christian community, you take over, you try to take over the Church every day. The easiest way to dechristianize Poland is through the PiS. [[Applause]] Bravo! In addition to division and depropriation, there is still exploitation and rejection. The exploitation of those who voted for you and who you rejected after the election. The exploitation of the farmers who trusted you and whom you funded the liquidation and ploughing of Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! The exploitation of the franchise you didn't help. The exploitation of victims by the authorities of the country to which you promised an emergency complaint, which has been waiting for almost 1000 days. The exploitation of businesses on which you apply new taxes every day, even in recent weeks, tax on limited companies, sugar taxes or taxes that will hit them next year. Listen to Poles, change Poland. And who are you listening to today in your government? You are listening to radicals who want to get Poland out of the European Union. It is important to reject this voice of radicals, to put them aside and listen to Poles who want to be in the European Union, who want to be a strong nation in the European Union. [[Applause]] We have a huge challenge ahead of us: defeat the COVID. This is a challenge for the whole national community, for all Poles, for all citizens. Beat the COVID and restore normality. Our task, responsible political formations, all responsible Poles, is to restore normality after your governments. Therefore, we propose a new social agreement based on the values of truth, justice, goodness and beauty. These values, regardless of whether they are derived from faith or from other sources, are to be the basis of a new social agreement, a social agreement that appreciates people's hard work, a social agreement that guarantees that in our country you will want to live everyone, that there will be a possibility of normality, decency, respect for every person regardless of the views and worldview, in a country where there is predictability and truth. [[Applause]] We can lead to this, only by restoring normality, removing radicals from the government, who are not and will never be a good solution for Poland. That's why the Polish Coalition... There's no coalition anymore. ...with always the best interests and prosperity of the citizens, she will vote in favour of this proposal. And don't be outraged. In politics and in mechanics it is necessary to ease and tolerance. We know that. More slack and a little tolerance. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u272	Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Kaczynski to resign, I was the first one to talk about it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Pan! Prime Minister! Yes, yes, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński to resign, yes, ladies and gentlemen. Not only that this is a position artificially created within the government administration for political games. Of course, not because of the justification that came here from Mr Boris Budka's mouth or from the mouth of the representative of the Left. Today they have a really vulgar, rude, unstable face, Marta Lempart's face, which is violent, full of the worst insults. No, that's not why Kaczyński resigned. Kaczynski to resign... Prime Minister! A woman's boxer. Give it up with your foreheads, really. Give it up with your foreheads. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This is culture. Or she's missing. Culture. Learn the culture. Kaczynski resigned not only because he started his office... Winnicki, you're an envoy. Winnicki, be cultural. ...from attacking farmers, from attacking a pointless project, from replacing the Minister of Agriculture with passive, mediocre, but faithful. Someone who doesn't know agriculture, doesn't feel it and attacks it. But you're not gonna change us. Not only because at the moment when the left-wing manifestations appeared, Jarosław Kaczyński was responsible for the police's passiveness against attacks on churches, on places of worship, on monuments. Not only because Jarosław Kaczyński is responsible for the brutal actions of the police, precisely, the roll in a roll, as from the days of Donald Tusk during the March of Independence on 11 November this year. Same behavior, identical procedures. Not just because, as you say, he's not responsible. That's what you say. You just don't know what's worse. You don't know what's worse. Is it a political plan - just heating up emotions, let the churches attack, will it happen, will we turn our attention away from the economic crisis, from the crisis of the health system? Let it happen, let it be hot on the March of Independence, because people will not see what a crisis the state is in. Is it, as you say, that Jarosław Kaczyński is not responsible for this? If he doesn't answer, it's worse that he doesn't control the state and the system he created. The state and system, which - unfortunately - in terms of scandals, guysity, nepotism, corruption, manual management is simply a continuation of the worst pathologies of the Third Republic of Poland. It is a continuation of the SLD, it is a continuation of the Civic Platform. If today Jarosław Kaczyński is weak, it is precisely because there is no change that he is a great successor, also in the field of foreign policy. Also in the fact that today a compromise is being negotiated, just as 11 years ago during the negotiations of the Treaty of Lisbon, a compromise which is in fact to be another step towards centralising the European Union... You're full of shit, Winnicki, you're full of shit. ...to federalize the European Union, and you know it. Another step that will destroy Polish sovereignty. For all these reasons Jarosław Kaczyński - to resign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u274	Mr Arthur Dziambor, near the Confederation. Veto! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u275	Mr. Marshal, I'd like to start by asking you to shut up the club sometime. [[Game in the O.R.]] Now they're making noise on this side. Those, too. Those, too. Let's be honest. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! As I listened to Mr Tulayev, I was surprised that this was a debate on a vote of distrust for Prime Minister Kaczyński, not a debate about awarding him the Nobel Peace Prize. The National Nobel Prize. Really, there's a tear. When we talked here today about substantive points, we discussed e.g. The issue of excise duty on cars or we talked about the shipyard in Świnoujście, which you just killed, firing several hundred people from work, was in the room of two representatives of Law and Justice. Maybe TVP... Now there's a whole elite. Priorities. Beautiful. Dear Vice Prime Minister for Security, How does it feel to have the most fictional position in this government? Because we know very well that this is a fictional position. We know perfectly well that the so-called event took place. reconstruction of the government. This reconstruction of the government was based on the fact that several ministers became vice-ministers. Several other vice-ministers became directors of the new offices you created. You've eliminated several ministries, but in exchange, you've set up offices and you're making more money there because there's no law that limits your income to politicians. We can see it. We know exactly what it looks like. You're in this government, in this position just to keep Matthew Morawiecki safe, who wasn't doing well in the war with Zbigniew Ziobro, and you're here to keep an eye on what's going on inside, and you're not even doing it, because there's a lot of voice in the international arena. Minister Gowin will say something, Minister Ziobro will say something, Prime Minister Morawiecki will say something outside, bringing shame to us. Prime Minister! You can't even keep up your government. It's time to resign. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u276	Thank you. I have this remark to the honourable Member: as if you could turn off the headlight, because you can film yourself, but do not blind other people. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday. We're not auditioning. The Member wants to enlighten you. It's a kagan... Without that flashlight, as you can. Unfortunately, you can't turn it off.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u277	I don't mind, Marshal. But it's bothering us. How about somebody help you? You're welcome, my fellow Member. I'll wait. Tell me when it's done. I mean, this is a seym... Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! His Excellency! Your private empire, which under the cover of the so-called. You've been building a good change over the past few years, squirming at the seams. And you're still supposed to rule and divide, and you're mostly assigned to yours. It was your people who made the business cutting of Poland. They set new boundaries on the map of political corruption so that no one gets in the way. There are no ideas behind you anymore. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are no more committed democratic opposition activists in your ranks. The other Miesiewicz, Szumowski, who hates women orthodoxes from Ordo Iuris, the mouthy boys of Mr.Zbigniew Ziobra, fans of the series, e.g. Minister Czarnek, daughter of foresters, businessmen importing Russian coal, respirator merchants and by the way arms, judges of doubles, secret co-workers of the Polish People's Republic services and conformist nuns of the Centre Agreement. The political prosecutor, the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, which is a mockery of the law and is compromised by the Constitutional Tribunal of Julia Przyłębska, is taking care of the security of your closed party. Notifications of crimes sent to the prosecution by citizens and opposition end up in archives because they are entitled to the status of waste paper on your orders. The countless officials, the judges, the uniformed officers of your pretorians are breaking your spine. The great harm caused by your politics frightens and overwhelms you. These are hundreds of thousands of human dramas: police officers who were deprived of pensions and a good name only because they finished education or started serving in the times of the Polish People's Republic. Out-of-work officials who had to give up their place to your party protégé. Women and children, treated with gas on demonstrations, dragged around the police stations at night or intruding on houses. But I'll tell you with the words of our Nobel Prize winner's poem: "Acts and conversations will be written. Remember this embezzlement of the state will be Poles of your generation, for which you have become a symbol of corrupting ideals of Solidarity. They'll remember today's 20th - and 30-year-olds. These new generations don't believe in TVP stripes. They see what you're doing: spitting on the constitution, spitting on civil rights, hateful sharing of families at a common table. That's the kind of world you want to leave them. The perspective of the opinion of the authorities and the accounts raises fear in you. It's wrong. The revolution of Solidarity has shown that Poles know how to restore their country's freedom in a bloodless and just way. Do you remember any of this? 'Cause I don't think so anymore. That's why, Mr. President, it's time to retire. 80% of Poles want this. You're retiring from big cities, small towns and villages. Even in the judgment of your recent supporters, you've become an unbearable uncle who doesn't know when to leave the party. Mr. President! When two years ago the Poles were outraged by the nude awards for ministers in the government of Beata Szydło, you said: Vox populi, vox Dei, the voice of the people with the voice of God, and ordered the allocation of prizes for charity. That's when you listened to people. Today on behalf of 80% Poles and Poles, please step off the stage. How did you calculate that? While you still can. It's with dignity. You have no right to drag us to hell, Poles and Poles. Poland does not deserve the fate you want us to have. He deserves a better government and a better parliament. The only chance to save Poland is now the adoption of a resolution on shortening the term of the Sejm and issuing new elections as soon as possible. Your time is up and you know it. Only in three years, our country will be much weaker and much more wounded than it is now. Have that decency and put us out of our misery. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You may have heard this phrase once: Only those worthy to exercise authority who have the strength of the spirit to give it up. Do you have enough spirit? With yourself and Poland to choose from, what will you choose?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u278	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Can I correct what Mr Zieliński said? I now ask the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, to speak. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] But a corrigendum. Sit still there. You can't just sit there like the president says. He said it wasn't true. Dismissed. Dismissed. Some Members chant: Jarosław! Jarosław! Jarosław! Dismissed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u279	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much. I hope that this good side, which has now spoken in such a decisive way, in the name of its widely known and practiced democratic beliefs here for years - although a little questioned by the definition of the street and abroad, total opposition - will nevertheless allow me to say a few words. We just don't know if Terlecki's gonna let you. You think it's goodbye, I don't think so. And those who sit here will decide, and hundreds, thousands of others of the Law and Justice, but also of the voters. And when will the election be? Well, you guys do. Or did you like it, because you didn't at the moment, you liked to appeal to the constitution. That's what the constitution decides. In 2023. [[Applause]] The speeches I heard here were different. Some of them contained a political proposal, anything premature and pointing to some inexperience of the one who spoke in a slightly more civilized way here. Patience, Mr President, patience. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! That's first of all. But the vast majority of what has been said here is a confusion of absurdity, lies, but very often also something that could be described as a projection of your own personality, your own mentality for someone else. Well, that's how it happened that I became that man. Indeed, if you consider your mentality, your behavior, your, let's say, a very deep lack of culture, then perhaps a man who would somehow personalize... You're gonna talk about your culture. ...your qualities would be the one you attacked. But, ladies and gentlemen, we're from a completely different world. It's completely different. [[Applause]] The baton and the gas. I'm sure. From a completely different world, and you obviously can't understand it. You cannot understand that someone can really be guided by the interests of Poland, [[Joy in the Chamber]] not the interests of their groups. [[Applause]] That's bullshit. Come on, man. Here one word really came true, although in an aggressive speech. Art. 18 Penal Code. At least one real word. In fact, justice has escaped from Polish courts. That's all your courts are. It was Mr. Neumann who told us what the courts were like. Because I, however, and I would like to teach a young man here, use this Polish form of Pan. Perhaps you're already in another country, the one in the east. It's not really used there. Neumann. It's not for Mr. Neumann, it's for another young man who spoke here, too. You didn't apply it. Also a sociotechnic that has been known for centuries since ancient times. Change the meaning of words and change the character of values. Law and Justice. Let's get to the nearest story. Not distant, of course, in the historical dimension, not in the human dimension of life. The Polish Patriots' Union was, in fact, an NKVD agent aimed at total vassal, subjugation and trampling of Poland. And so is Law and Justice. Then the democratic front or the democratic camp... United Right. ...that is, those who wanted in Poland by means of fraudulent elections - unfortunately they managed to do so - introduce pure totalitarianism in the worst Stalinist edition. Duda, Trzaskowski. Mr Nitras, I warn you. One more time and... Relax, don't be nervous. You don't pay attention. But I'm returning it to you. You always pay me back. You're obsessed with something. Mr... We had a Polish-Soviet friendship, which for many years was a total colonial - perhaps only a protector - subject of Poland to the Soviet Union. Did you tell Peterovich that? And that kind of change (the bell) was very, very much. You're history, too. No, no. But they were also applied here. Time. Don't bother me, asshole. Shut up. They were also applied by you. Although these historical examples I could mention very much here. Time's up. It turns out that the defence of your constitution, which was brutally broken at the end of the seventh term, is the dismantling of the state. It turns out that demonstrations that are completely illegal, extremely harmful to humans, subject to the article. 165 § 3, which you are so afraid of - from 2 to 12 years, I will inform you of this so that you know... And you're subject to an article. 231. ...calling for a homicide with a name on it... This is bullshit. ...to refer to the fact that those who are summoned have weapons... Art. 255, three years too. ...it's all right. It's okay. This is bullshit. You've been calling us names here since the murderers. It's just a crime to oppose it. Attacking churches is part of a peaceful demonstration, but calling for their defence is in fact a division of the nation and even a crime. Calling for hate. Yes, of course, calling for hatred - defending churches against various acts of desecration [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's a call to hate. Well, maybe, given the certain, you can say the specific elements of the resume or the interests of some... Leave the churches alone. Churches don't need such defenders. ...from among the countries, there is indeed such a conclusion. Perhaps you, too, sir. What does Jacek Kurski do? But when it comes to the truth, the truth is... TVP, on TVP, we're gonna hear the truth. ...that extremely vulgar, destroying Polish public life can be said to bring them down, exceptionally, once again, obscene in every respect of shouts and speeches, this call for dialogue. It's written justification that I'm supposed to have a dialogue with these... and that it was even my duty. Well, ladies and gentlemen... You'd rather hit women. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the dimension of this procedure. You're out of time. These red letters, or actually the numbers I see here, unfortunately force me to shorten this speech, and there would be much more to say in these matters. You shouldn't have changed the rules of the Sejm. But there's one more thing I have to say. The Security Committee is a coordination body. Public. He's a coordinating institution, and he's dealing with the problems of national defense... He doesn't do anything. What are you doing at work? ...in both its external and internal dimensions. Didn't you notice the marshal's time was up? Take some tranquilizers. As far as the future is concerned, what is to be done is the preparation of both legal and practical solutions relating to these areas, we have indeed here, I admit, much to be done after very, very many years of various types of negligence. You won't be able to make it, fortunately. This job will be done. I know you're gonna be very worried about this, because the state is gonna be stronger, because it's not gonna be made of cardboard anymore, it's not gonna be made of cardboard anymore. It will be in the interests of Poland. [[Applause]] But it'll be against the total opposition. It'll be normalization... Yes, sir. ...life in Poland, but not as normal as it was in 1981, after 13 December... Dictatorship. Your speech is the best proof that you're not fit for this. Mr. Nitras, this is the last time I'm warning you. Then you'll cry to stop your punishment. ...or the way she was in Czechoslovakia after 1968. It will just be Poland, where it will be normal - we do not know today what, because people will decide, citizens will decide - the government majority. Punishment, punishment. And there will be normal opposition, not anti-state, not total, not one that uses aliens. This is a parliamentary opposition. This is our quest as a party, this is the desire of the government, this is also the desire of our committee. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Bravo! Dismissed. Don't sit down yet. There are no flowers, what neglect.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u280	I now ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to speak. When's Prime Minister Ziobro?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Opposite! This request of yours, which you directed against Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, is not really a request for his cancellation only, but it is an attempt to dissuade a certain vision of Poland, which the President Jarosław Kaczyński proposes. Exactly. This is the first time I've agreed. And that is why I want to mention a few fundamental differences in my speech to the High House today: the vision proposed by Jarosław Kaczyński and his brother Lech, versus the vision proposed by the so-called. the elite of the Third Republic. This is the elite. Always Poland. Shh... Don't be nervous. It is worth to start with what has been so visible in recent times: so many of your attacks on us, so many questions, so many frustrations, so many slanders, so many lies in the context of COVID-19, but never once did one fundamental question come up: How can we help? Is there anything we can do to help? Where's your fortune? We're helping. Don't lie to me. The people were waiting for the opposition at this very difficult time, in this difficult, one of the greatest crises of the last decades, not to put the sand in the ground so that it behaved civilly, patriotically. Where's his mind? It's already been done. Unfortunately, this has not been seen. Unfortunately, your attitude indicates that you are not only a party - especially the Civic Platform, the opposition - a total opposition, but you are also an external opposition, an external party, an external party towards Polish interests, against the Polish state's right. [[Applause]] Putin's language, that's Putin's language. And this is the basic thing that should start with the sound, the basic thing that the vision of Polish Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński... Orbán tells you what to do. Mr Budka, I warn you. ...is a vision that puts the Polish state's right first. [[Applause]] And your vision is a vision of many mistakes, misrepresentations, pathology and imperfections in the times of the Third Republic. And you said Orbán, not Putin. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth considering the course of the last few decades, because Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński is undoubtedly, I can say, the person who at first recognized the erroneous, pathological nature of the Third Republic and her in very specific, very precise words exposed her. The one who let his wife make a big fortune. What about those guns? And thus it was possible to build a certain offer, a fair offer, a good offer, an offer based on the political path of Lech and Jarosław Kaczyński. Maybe you'll share some of your citizen stuff. And these are indeed fundamental differences, fundamental questions. It can be said that just as in the Second Republic there were some visions of Dmowski and Piłsudski, so in the Third Republic there was a vision of sovereign Poland, fair... Silver. So where were you then? ...strong Lech and Jarosław Kaczyński, Jan Olszewski and vision of Poland free, small, small Michn and Urban. [[Applause]] There's nothing like clapping on your own. These are indeed completely separate visions. But to identify all of this, because, in fact, conceptual confusion, this semantic collapse... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Grupiński, please... ...at the beginning of the Third Republic was huge. You should have asked some basic questions: prudens interrogatio quasi dimidium sapientiae. About the property statement, first. About the plot, the other. Tusk's advisor, third. And such questions were asked by Jarosław Kaczyński. At first, he asked what real democracy was supposed to be about, whether real democracy was just a certain voting ritual... Exactly. ...with the imbalance of the social forces in which the media are on one side, there is power... Bankers. ...is the support of the West, and sometimes the East... West Bank. ...and there is no chance of a real change in power, as it has been for almost a dozen years, or real democracy is supposed to be about giving the vote to the nation in a real way. A woman's strike. The second question was therefore, whether the nation should be a conscious social group, aware of its interests, aware of its separateness from other countries, other nations, and therefore whether the education process should be adapted to make this nation build its pride, its strength, its value, or at the same time (The Bell) be... What happened to you? He's like Tusk's advisor. Mr Snapshot, I warn you. ...a certain magma subject to shame education, paternal education, as Scruton used to say, or micromania, or burdening our consciences with other people's sins? Like a wife's fortune and a plot. The president was better. These questions were crucial, questions asked by Jarosław Kaczyński. Next, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński asked... Come on, come on. The most faithful disciple. ...what a fair economic system is supposed to be: whether there is clientelism, which really is a clever method on the one hand of cooptation, and on the other hand of subjugating certain groups, the corporateism of certain groups - we see it to this day in various professional groups, in this sense I use the word - whether it is supposed to be on the principle of social balance of an economic system giving a possible equal opportunity to everyone. As a bankster... This is millionaire Morawiecki. And Prime Minister Kaczyński answered: yes, this is for us the direction of basic action, equal opportunities for each Pole. [[Applause]] Bravo! That's why he's gonna sign off on his wife. All these questions, basic questions for building a proper vision of Poland, came from Jarosław Kaczyński's lips. It's very fast. How's the silver lot going? But in your motion, ladies and gentlemen, you also refer to recent years and say: we want to settle Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, President of Jarosław Kaczyński for the last 5 years, because he is responsible for this. You too. Well, that's great, right, so let's settle it with basic parameters. Dear fellow countrymen! Dear Prime Minister, Let's start with debt. 47,000. Deaths. Unemployment - the first zmora III of the Republic of Poland, what you are responsible for, is responsible for party III of the Republic. 40,000. Deaths. It's your fault for the deaths. A decrease in unemployment by 33% over 5 years. I provide data from September 2020 versus September 2015. November to November - death... Mr Rutnicki, I warn you. One more speech and I'll punish you. Between these dates there was an increase in wages by 32.5%. And in four years, the first four years of the rule of law and justice, there was an increase in real wages - 19,5%. , surpassed any increase in wages in any earlier four-year-old or previous term of office. It's horrible, it's horrible. [[Applause]] Let's move on. Foreign debt. Foreign debt fell by 20%. And the country's growing. The international net investment position, which is a measure of our independence with regard to foreign financing... We are the leader in Europe. ...falled by about 25 percentage points. This is a true measure of independence in decks like you've never dreamed of before. This is what the Prime Minister needs to be thanked for. [[Applause]] The world is jealous of us. Have you seen the flu shots? Not much, not much. But let's move on. September 2015 to September 2020 - increase in expenditure on disabled people by 78%. [[Applause]] Yet, yes. Polish debt. It's gonna change you anyway... Salaries - 32,5% And for people with disabilities, because we know that they are the weakest - 78%. He's gonna change you anyway. And let me also say that 44% is an increase in exports. Well, it's a scandal, it's a horror movie. Blaszczak seems happy. These are data, ladies and gentlemen, that you wouldn't witness in your previous five-year-olds. And the deaths? And this is all in practice the realization of the vision of Jarosław Kaczyński (Mounting in the room), in practice in hard social realities... Those words will stay. ...because I referred to such data: economic, financial and budgetary. [[Applause]] More Vaseline. Mr. President, when's the change? But the vision of Poland and the strategy for Poland of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński was always based on justice, law and dignity. And I think that this right was understood by the Prime Minister not only as a right from the formal side, a right to be exercised in Poland, but also as a right to be understood positively, a right to something, a right to a decent life, a right to a fair judgment, a right to really free elections, to have citizens vote in real democratic elections. The right to a veto. Yeah. Democratic. And that, too, is something that didn't fit you deeply. This is something that was contrary to your short-sighted vision, a vision that was based on a good case on warm water in the tap actually, [[Applause]] the lack of real benefits for a wide range of people. To a bowl of rice. But let's look at it this way. Ladies and gentlemen, social policy has been fundamentally changed and forever this great deficit of solidarity of the Third Republic by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński... And you invented a hospital without patients. They think you're soft. The Prime Minister threw this password: 500+, as well as many other additional social expenses, which changed the fate of millions of Polish families... You're the Prime Minister. It won't be long now. ...which caused those who were in the Third Republic to regain their dignity [[Applause]] - unemployed, employees, single mothers raising children... One orders, the other pays like a restaurant. ...retired people, older people, entrepreneurs, but these little entrepreneurs. They were groups that were largely either ignored or even handicapped. [[Game in the O.R.]] What about the shipbuilders? It was Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, directing social policy towards these broad crowds of society, who rebuilt their ability to implement economic plans, their individual aspirations and their right to dignity. It's great. Thank you, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] Bravo! Long live us! More Vaseline. Ladies and gentlemen! That's when you said it was impossible. It's impossible because where's the money coming from? They might be buried somewhere. From the printery. Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński was determined to pursue this plan. And it was Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński who was right. [[Applause]] Mr. President, that's what he said to Tusk. Bravo! That's what he said to Tusk. The next element, as Mr Sylvester Tułaev mentioned earlier - refugees. That's what he advised Tusk to do. You said all refugees must be admitted. It is not possible to achieve our goals without giving in to the will of the European Union. Jarosław Kaczyński said that no, we have our policy, we do not accept refugees. And he was right. [[Applause]] It turned out that the European Union was also right today. You're right about everything, and the president is right about everything. So in these basic changes that concern the present, I showed on a few examples (the gamble in the room, the bell), how wrong you were. How much you have been wrong about something that is often called myths even today in the press devoted to you without the rest of the media. You should've rented it... at ING, not Santander. The myth is that capital has no nationality - Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński has long talked about it - the myth that the state is an enemy of people, the state is a bad thing, the state should be a night watchman. It was so that various interest groups within the framework of clientelism could carry out their interests (Gwar in the Chamber) so that privileged interest groups could de facto de facto parasitism to a large extent in the rest of society. Half of Poland is laughing at you, Prime Minister. Mrs Pomaska, I warn you. Mr. Marshal, shut your nose. President Jarosław Kaczyński said that we need to change this policy... Louder. You're a primitive. ...that this is a myth that we must definitely prevent. Similarly, with regard to trade, with regard to capital, free circulation of capital or taxes, which were supposed to be the worst, bad thing. And I would also like to tell you, as former finance minister, that it is thanks to the President and his determination that we today have public finances... The most indebted. ...in a state as good as we have never had public finances in Poland's history. [[Applause]] To the Platforms. It's a fact. That's how we can help. And this is also a huge credit to Jarosław Kaczyński. He laughed himself. Ladies and gentlemen! You can't be surprised how we saved millions of jobs... But it's an estimate. Such a sucker... We're all jealous. ...that we made big investment programs at the same time. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] We've led tens of billions of dollars to invest... Mr. Groupinski! Calm down by your grace. ...for investments in municipalities, districts, roads, and they're 10 times bigger than yours. Mr. Marshal, cover your nose. You're a sejm clown and you're bothering me all the time. And at the same time the deficit at the end of November - that's what I'm going to tell you here, because I don't think you know this number yet - is 13 billion PLN. Time. In your time, when the crisis was much smaller, you said: we are immune to calls from entrepreneurs, to save jobs, to save the economy. We weren't immune to it. We were saving jobs, and that was the basic goal that President Jarosław Kaczyński had before he entered the government... Before she was born. ...at the beginning of the pandemic, he put the government as head of the camp leader. We're here to protect jobs. That's what Beata Szydło said. It's gotta stop. We're here to create a financial shield that protects jobs. And what's the result? Look at today's Eurostat data. Have you seen them? But the deaths... Look at today's Eurostat data. According to them, we are the only country in the European Union that has grown not only by working hours but also by working days alone. Oh! Especially in hotels and slopes. So there is a huge success, which is precisely the result that we have treated work and budget in this way and not in another way. The Polish state's budget is able to... It's gonna collapse. ...very good, in such good condition that during the COVID pandemic we can implement investment programs... Then why was the money held up for the budget? What's the budget staff say about this? ...protect jobs and have one of the lower deficits. This is the determination and long-term effect of the implementation of the strategic plans by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. But I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, about some fundamental... Slots. Plots. Mr Tomczyk, you are the president of the club. Come on. ...the ideas about some of the fundamental problems that President Jarosław Kaczyński addressed... Who chose you? Who chose you? You're a sejm clown. Why are you doing this? Culture. Yeah, a little culture. Well, his CV is a kind of showing, what intelligence could be in Poland after 1989, and what intelligence really was. You know, some of you probably know the pedigrees of the insubordinate. Intelligence has always been to serve the community to be with the weaker. And to think first. It was the role of intelligence, the insubordinate ones, those insubordinate ones described by Cywiński... You're the one about yourself, aren't you? ...of all literary figures, such as Dr. Judy, Szybkaczka or lantern Skawinski, but also of great figures of our history, which were then described there, like Limanowski, like Rodiewiczówna or Przesmycki. And you destroy his son in Oświęcim. And this intelligence at that dramatic time, because the partitions were much more dramatic than today, after 1989, stood at the height of the task. Oh, no, no, no, no, no. Unfortunately, the intelligence that began to evolve, so to speak, in the times of the Third Republic, grew with the living room, created a living room - I don't know how to say it - was in fact part of the elite, pseudoelite... He reached the partitions through the Polish People's Republic, then we have the Jagiellons, then the Piasts. ...which separated the nation and society from the picture of real economic and social life. How are your stats? And one of the few people who approached this completely differently in the 1990s, two thousand, was the president of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] Renovator. You forgot it's on your motion that we're discussing President Kaczyński. And his approach in a fundamental way also changed the fate of politics, and consequently - the fate of society and thus - the strength of Poland. I wonder what Ziobro's gonna say. Coalitioners should defend themselves, too. Today we are dealing with such a situation that you are convinced that you are very joking, that you are making some accusations beautifully, while I will say something that Prime Minister Kaczyński has already said here, it is about changing concepts. Order of a sucker. Call me "Ziobra." It's called word for word. It's characteristic of you. It is enough and it must be said here that during the pandemic, when we are actually dealing with the threat of infection, you support demonstrations during which infections occur. As a result, more deaths occurred. This is your fault. You have to take responsibility for this. But what I'm trying to say is that you've been using this propaganda stick a lot... Telescopic. ...a propaganda bat that the right is fascism. Meanwhile, see what has now been happening in your ranks, as it were coming out of your ranks: vandalism, aggression, insulting people, extreme vulgarity and attacks on the Church again. Exactly. Yes, sir. When will the real Prime Minister, Prime Minister Ziobro speak? It must be said that these behaviours, which are extremely anti-social, anti-Polish behaviours, were girded by you. This is something completely opposite to what a vision the president Jarosław Kaczyński has for Poland. Now Prime Minister Ziobro. How was Owl's? Ladies and gentlemen! In every period, not only in the 1990s or the 2000s, but also today, it is important to name the problem. The word, it's the word that counts, is that the discourse is based on facts, about what is really bothering people. And President Jarosław Kaczyński actually called in the right way the phenomena that you have left behind... There's still an attempt at misrepresentation. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Like kids. Member of the Commission, Minister Błaszczak is also recording. They're phenomena like this. unemployment. You've said very often that they're lazy people, that it's crass, that we're dealing with laziness here, unfortunately. The farmer is also lazy - it rained something like that on your part - that's why he doesn't make much money. What's that man talking about? Or in relation to the nation. A nation is a concept... Oh, look out, because it's rubbing off on nationalism. You can't say that. Why don't you want to help the Prime Minister? Patriotism is a bad thing. Or mirrors or decommunization. Property mirroring, Mr. Morawiecki. Today, indeed, we are still demanding what was first called decommunization after the transformation. Today we should talk about depost-communization. Oh, yeah. It's needed all the time. Yeah, it's needed all the time... Especially in the PiS. ...because you are often the foundation of this system. [[Applause]] So the boundaries of our language are the boundaries of our world. Therefore, the determination of these borders in the right way, the identification of these phenomena by the President was fundamental to the formulation of the political offer and the programme offer. Blaszczak can't hold on anymore. High Izbo! Prime Minister! Now about the Jagiellons. I've heard that our esteemed opposition here has a plan to develop its ideas... I think that's what you heard at Owl's. ...to be presented in the form of a program in the near future, I understand. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Really? I don't know. It's interesting that they've come up with something like this now. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I'm very happy for you, but... Even Marshal Terlecki smiled. Everyone smiled when you had a show. I'm very happy for you, but I'll tell you why this complex is coming out of you... What complex? ...why are you trying to cover everything with screaming, lying, mocking and mocking. Because you must and want to apologize for Poland and for Polishness. Polishness for you is abnormal, and for Jarosław Kaczyński - according to him it is necessary to thank for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] Orbán and Putin. Thank God for Poland, thank past generations and thank every mother... It's a shame someone with that kind of intellect is prime minister. ...and any father who tries to raise their children well. And he doesn't have kids. And that is why, Mr President, I thank you for this path that has led to such a fundamental change in our homeland, a country that has become internal at the same time. Flowers. And that's why your... Boo-boo, boo-boo. ...10 pages won't cover... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Boo-boo, happy birthday... Long live it. Yes, yes, your 10 pages will not cover those years which have been years of fighting for better Poland, fighting for fair Poland, for fair and strong Poland. And that is why it is the way of Jarosław Kaczyński that caused us today to live in a more normal country, in a normal country. [[Applause]] We live in a country that has a chance to be strong, really first-class, and in a broader sense. Look at the hard economic parameters. Santo subito. Canonization. And that's why, Mr. President, I wanted to end by saying thank you. [[Applause]] Oh... Yes, sir. Bravo! Boo-boo, boo-boo. Thank you very much, sir, and your brother, your sleep. Brother, because your brother's memory is sacred. Embarrassing. But his ideas and his actions live among us and are building a better and fairer Poland with us. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Bravo! Lubu-dubu. Some Members chant: Thank you! Thank you! Thank you! Some Members chant: To Poland! To Poland! To Poland! Jarosław!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u282	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. Mr. Marshal, with a formal motion. I'm calling a 10-minute break. We all saw... Sit down, you clown. We all saw Mr. Ziobro checking in. Mr. Ziobro has a chance to fold... Please leave the podium. Go change. Change your medication. But we don't want softies. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 35 hrs. 21 min 46]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with a quorum before the second round of votes. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. 439 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 826. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. We are returning to the review of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We are continuing to vote on the Senate's amendments. In the 211st Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 211st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 447, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 212st amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of the article. 15zs. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 212th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. Two for, against - 448, one abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In 216th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 216th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 217th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 15zs. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 217th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 220 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 218th Amendment, the Senate proposes a revision of Article. 15zs. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 218th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 229 - for, 222 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 222nd amendment to Article. 15zs. 1. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 226th amendment. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 222 and 226 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. Two for, against - 447, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 224th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 15zs. 1. This amendment is accompanied by amendments 228., 436. and 451. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 224, 228, 436 and 451, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 2 for, 445 against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 225th amendment to Article. 15zt The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 3. Together with this amendment, we will vote on the 433rd amendment. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 225 and 433 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 1 for, against - 450, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 229th amendment to Article. 15zzbbb Senat offers among others. the new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 229th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 226, against - 224, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 295th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 15zzzzn1 and art. 15zzzzn2. This is your legislation, Marshal. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 295th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 5 - for, against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 296th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 31zaa. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 296th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 224 - for, against - 228, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In 369th amendment to Article. 31zo. 8 The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 369th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 - for, against - 450, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 400th amendment to the article. 31zo The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 10. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 400th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Two for, against - 448, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 431st amendment to the article. 31zo The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 10 and the addition of paragraph 10. 10a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 431st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 230 for, 220 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 434th amendment to the article. 31z The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 434th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 231 - for, 220 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 437th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 31zy14. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 437th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 229 - for, 222 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 438th amendment, the Senate proposes among others. add Article. 31zzcaa. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 438th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 231 - for, 221 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 439th amendment to the article. 31zzm of the mouth. 1 The Senate proposes to add the words collected at the places designated for trade by the municipality council. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 439th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 232-- for, 221-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. Amendments 442 and 443. The Senate reported it to the article. 2 amending act, which includes amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act. In the 442nd amendment to the article. 52m The Senate proposes to add point 4. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 442nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 1 for, against -454, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 443rd amendment to the article. 52m The Senate proposes amendments to point 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 443rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 233 - for, 221 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 444th amendment to the article. 4 The Act on the Rules of Participation of Foreign Enterprises and Other Foreign Persons in Economic Trade in the territory of the Republic of Poland The Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. 8. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 444th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. Four for, 450 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 445th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 4a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 445th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. Four for, 438 against, nine stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 446th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 4a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 446th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. No one was for, 453 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 447th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 4b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 447th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 233 - for, 222 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 448th amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 4c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 448th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 233 - for, 217 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 449th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 4c. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 449th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. Three, for, against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 450th amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the article. Point 7 (1). The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 450th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. Nobody was for, 455 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. We return to the consideration of item 11 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. Now the flowers, the flowers. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion for a vote of distrust against the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Zbyszek didn't raise his hand. He picked it up, but he wasn't happy. Where are the flowers? But there was a violent awakening. Oh... Oh, dear, it's gonna be hard to sleep. Waldek, look at how they vote from Solidarna Poland. 450 Members voted. 216 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust towards the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński, in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Ooh... Where are the flowers? It's a classic. [[Members of Iwona Arent and Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka present flowers to the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers Jarosław Kaczyński]] We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 826). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? I don't see any calls. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No. 826, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 421 - for, 4 - against, with a hold of 17. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. This concludes the discussion of the agenda items scheduled for 9 December this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward? If not, I'm closing the list. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, the first Member of the Coalition of Poland. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u283	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the Law - Hunting Law in Article. 2 it is written that free-riding animals as a nation-wide good are the property of the State Treasury. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, they are the property of the State Treasury. What's the reality? The reality is that, ladies and gentlemen, as far as farmers holding land ownership under the Constitution are concerned, they are leased land to hunting wheels that run the hunting economy. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, the State Treasury, which should take responsibility for this game in its single state, has transferred all responsibility to the Polish Hunting Union. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we have a situation where there are no foreign exchange hunts, and hunting wheels are threatened by mass decommissioning after the new year. What happens then? We're gonna have national parks, we're not gonna have a hunting economy, farmers are gonna lose more and more. Who will the farmers go to then? The Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that today I will call on the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture, to take very quick action, first of all to secure the compensation that farmers have already calculated, but also the next ones that will be in the spring for these farmers to receive these compensations. Secondly, so that those hunting wheels that are threatened with their operation can be saved. But the most important thing ahead of us is to build a new Hunting Law, where the farmer will not be allowed to hunt, hunter, farmer, and the Treasury will be out. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that it is very important that the State Treasury, which is in this article. 2 written that the game is owned by the State Treasury, finally took full responsibility and shared both in terms of compensation and in terms of the proper hunting economy, but also in terms of proper relations between farmers and hunters, because they have to and want to cooperate with each other, but they have to cooperate on partner terms, and not as it is today in terms of estimation. It tries to estimate itself to pay as little as possible, and farmers often have destroyed fields in 70 And they don't sow to feed this game, but they sow to live, earn and grow. Therefore, Prime Minister, Minister, once again I call for an urgent shield for farmers to compensate (The Bell) and for the urgent start of work on the new Hunting Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u284	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Perhaps the Prime Minister will also listen to my statement because it is very important. Statement on the dramatic situation of the tourism industry. A few minutes ago, the Sejm majority rejected the Senate's amendments on aid to the tourism industry, i.e. hotels, guesthouses, catering and other services. Entrepreneurs in this industry have been out of business for 3 months and therefore do not receive any revenue. How should the ZUS pay, bank loans, employees' salaries, fixed costs of the facility? How are they to comply with the agreements concluded with the Polish Development Fund, which requires them to maintain employment for at least 1 year? The same problems are faced by entrepreneurs connected with tourism, i.e. laundry services, cleaning and others. They're also in danger of bankruptcy. There are over 1 million people working in tourism who earn around 7% a year. GDP. Can this group of entrepreneurs and mountain and mountain communities be ignored? Why is the government not talking to the tourism industry and trying to find a solution to the partial frostbite of business? Self-governments and entrepreneurs know how to ensure the health safety of tourists and residents and at the same time do not tear down everything that works around them, but nobody listens to them. Meanwhile, the Czechs have already announced the opening of hotels, gastronomy and all services in the winter season, with restrictions, of course, but they are open. Don't we care about tourists and want to voluntarily give up the huge profits this industry brings and hand them over to the Czech Republic? What do you call it? There's a name for it in Karpacz, and I'm not gonna repeat it here right now. Only losses in Karpacz amount to about PLN 2 million. Where are the other tourist destinations? What about the winter break decision? Everyone is waiting for spring break: parents, children and the whole tourism industry. Excellent medical specialists in the field of treatment and reduction of diseases, including Professor Simon, clearly say that the extension of holidays is very desirable and safe. Those who have passed the disease can use all tourist services without restrictions. There are hundreds of thousands of people in Poland. Why are these opinions not taken into account? In recent weeks, local authorities, in agreement with entrepreneurs, have presented to the government a number of concrete solutions concerning the hotel, catering and other industries which are ready to implement immediately. They are now awaiting an urgent response. I appeal to the Prime Minister for urgent consideration of the proposals submitted and for talks with credible (Dawn) and equal partners, such as entrepreneurs and mountain local authorities. I would very much ask the government to take a positive view of this. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u286	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A peaceful manifestation took place in Bydgoszcz on 30 November. Also in other cities of Poland and our voivodship such manifestations took place on that day. In Bydgoszcz, as the protesters declared, there was an escalation of tension, physical violence and an attempt to intimidate protesters from the police. Meanwhile, ordinary citizens, men, women and young people, people of different denominations, beliefs and political views, fighting on demonstrations for respect for human rights and respect for women's rights, including your wives, mothers and daughters, ladies and gentlemen policemen, are not sure today whether the Polish Police are still on the side of the vulnerable and the victims, whether they are on the side of those who decide on police personnel matters, i.e. on the side of politicians in the country. Manifested people who go out on the streets in peaceful, unaggressive protests against violations of their rights, violations of the constitution, want to believe that the police protect them, prevent provocations, protect them from the attacks of fanatical militias, and not, as has happened in many cities in recent weeks, attack them, beat them with steel sticks and intimidate the protesters. No one in Poland needs a police force that beats the helpless and the weak instead of defending them. I would like to ask: Why in Bydgoszcz a policeman decided to destroy someone's property by deliberately throwing a phone out of his hand for a young person, and why wouldn't he introduce himself so that a young man could claim compensation or file a complaint? Do the leaders of the Bydgoszcz police know this case and have they explained what this violent policeman was afraid of, and why he was violent with the youth? Please inform me about this. I'm just begging you, sir, not to let one of my attorneys know that there's been an unlawful use of the flash, and that's why the policeman had to use force. Why did ununited police officers during this intervention on 30 November not have the courage to act openly during this intervention and give their names? I'd like to ask, how many uniformed officers did they have a spare camera? And another question about the whole situation: On what legal and factual basis did the police take three protesting ladies in a radio car and search their phones? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Were these ladies threatening public order, and if so, why weren't they handed over to the Homeland Security Agency and released? What kind of records did the cops get from searching those cell phones? Therefore, I hope that the chief of police in Bydgoszcz will publicly explain who ordered police officers to do this kind of brutality. The Bydgoszcz Police Department. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u288	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 2 years ago, on December 8th, our wonderful colleague from the parliamentary bench Jolanta Szczypińska left us. It is impossible to forget about such a good and friendly personality, nor can it be remembered how much Jolant Szczypińska contributed to the reconstruction of democratic Poland. By education, the nurse was a co-founder of the "Solidarity" structures in the voivodship hospital. Strongly involved in opposition activities, she was an underground activist, sold second circulation publications. She was being harassed by the communist authorities. Numerous criminal proceedings have been brought against her. She's been detained and punished multiple times. It is worth noting that she was a public member of the Inter-Business Coordination Commission of the NSZZ She was a member of the Centre's Agreement, and in 2001 she joined the Party of Law and Justice, was vice-president of the region's board of directors, and headed the branch of the Parliamentary Office. Lech Kaczyński. Mandant became a Member of the Commission in 2004. She was a Member of the Sejm IV, V, VI, VII and VIII term as well as vice-president of our club, club Law and Justice. When she got sick, she didn't give up. Even from the hospital, she was in charge of her district. President Andrzej Duda awarded her posthumously with the Commander's Cross with the Star of the Order of Rebirth of Poland for outstanding achievements undertaken for the benefit of the country in public and state activities, for activities for democratic change in Poland. Jola was a gift to all of us. Hello to her memory! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u290	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Piotr Adamowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u291	Dear Marshal! I'm the last one, so thank you very much, thank you for the perseverance of the firm's employees. I did not want to speak here, but unfortunately, in the evening I got very disturbing information from the association of Polish local governments established by several hundred municipalities. Well, quite recently, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced with a bang, even with a slight satisfaction the allocation of PLN 6 billion to the Government Local Investment Fund. More than 100 Pomeranian municipalities will receive some PLN 237 million. But looking at the list of beneficiaries, we see: Gdansk - 0 zł, Sopot - 0 zł, Gdynia - 0 zł, Słupsk - 0 zł. Not even one penny broken for these cities. It would be wise to consider why this happened. The local government wanted to know from a representative of the government in the field, from a representative of Mr Morawiecki, here I am talking about the Drelich voivode, who decided on what terms, according to what criteria. Not much, practically nothing, they were sent back to the Government Information Centre, hopefully not to the Berdychs. As it happens, in these cities, PiS has lost notoriously, never once won in the last dozen years. President Andrzej Duda lost both tours in these cities. I don't want to look forward to it, but it is important to wonder if it is not a great policy to decide that a broken penny has not been granted to these cities as aid to local governments, compensation for the losses incurred under the COVID. And one more thing. However, if the local authorities decide to ask the Supreme Audit Chamber to carry out an ad hoc check in principle to distribute these funds, I will, of course, sign under it and encourage the signature of other parliamentarians' colleagues. Thank you and have a good night, everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-09-sejm-22-1.u292	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 10 December 2020 at 10 a.m. 9. Thank you, everyone. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 23 min 11]]
