ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen! We will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators taking part in the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 63 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. [[Voting No 15]] Dear Senators! I would like to inform you that today's deliberations will be resumed from the examination of item 9. We will then consider further items on the agenda concerning the laws adopted by the Sejm, which are timely, i.e. to the 16th point, and 17th point: second reading of the draft law on amending the law on local taxes and charges. Today we will also consider a point on the information of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration about police actions towards participants and participants in protests after the announcement of the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal. At the end of today's session, voting round will be held on the points that have been discussed so far. Please be sure that this will take some time, because there are a lot of amendments to the various laws. I would also like to inform you that yesterday the Seniors Convention decided to continue its current meeting next week on 2 and 3 December, i.e. Wednesday and Thursday. We will consider the remaining items on the agenda these days. I would also like to inform you that the agenda may be supplemented by other laws adopted by the Sejm at a continued meeting, including urgent ones. The supplement may include, inter alia, an urgent law on works concessions, as well as a law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID-19, relating to trade on Sunday 6 December this year, so we will meet next week. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on State aid proceedings. The text of the Act is contained in print No 250 and the report of the committee In print No 250 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Marshal Senator Maria Koc, to present a report to the committee. [[Mr. Marshal, can I take my mask off while I speak?]] Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u2	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present a report on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to the Act amending the Law on State Aid Procedure. The Act was passed by the Sejm on 28 October 2020. On 29 October the Senate Marshal sent the Act to the committee. The Commission requests the adoption by the High Senate of the attached draft resolution. The Commission adopted two amendments proposed by your legislator, which are of a technical and terminology nature. The committee's report is contained in print No 250 A. The law, ladies and gentlemen, is, as it seems, technical and regulatory, provides for appropriate solutions which will have a positive impact on the ordering of the rules in the event that the Court of Justice of the European Union finds that the European Commission's decisions on aid cases have been annulled. The Act provides for the creation of a separate bank account to which the aid granting would contribute to the beneficiaries of the State aid. The funds would be collected on this account until the Court of Justice of the European Union has decided on the validity or nullity of the decisions imposed by the European Commission in respect of the granting of State aid. If the aid is considered possible, it will be sent to an entity which accepts the aid, otherwise Unless otherwise provided for in the separate provisions, the State budget. This was the question, so I will say that in the law it is precisely so that when the party which grants public aid is not the budget of the State, after the negative judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, these funds return to the entity which granted the aid. The bill to which the funds will be directed will be kept by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The bill didn't raise any controversy. In the Seym it was adopted by 440 votes in favour, two votes against and two abstentions. The Commission of the Economy also abstained by a majority of the Senators, as I said, with amendments proposed by your legislator and approved by the representatives of the Ministry of State Assets and the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. High Izbo, on behalf of the committee, please accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u3	Thank you very much, Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Marshal. The draft law was introduced by Members. Marek Suski was authorized to present the position of the petitioners of the Parliamentary bill, but if my eyesight is correct, I do not see him in the courtroom. Therefore, there will be no round of questions and answers to Mr Suski. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u4	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Please respond positively to this bill. These are transitional provisions that safeguard the functioning of the aid if the decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union would be negative in relation to the decision taken by the European Commission; we are talking about aid measures. We do not expect this kind of situation, but we want to safeguard the stability of the power market. This is extremely important from the point of view of Polish energy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u5	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I didn't introduce the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, Mr. Tomasz Chróstny. Would any of your senators like to ask a question to the representatives of the government? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A brief question to the contents of the bill. That is, do we need some transitional provisions? This is the question of whether such proceedings are taking place before the tribunal at the moment, because if not, such rules are unnecessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u7	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u8	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act amending the Power Market Act fully safeguards the interests of entrepreneurs, in this case no transitional provisions are needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u9	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. For the record, senators Mariusz Gromko, Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of this part of the Senate meeting, which is today. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on the Organisation of Farming and Animal Breeding. The text of the Act is contained in print No 252 and the committee report In print No 252 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Richard Bober, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to submit to the High House a report on the work of the Committee on the Law on the Organisation of Farming and Farming Animals, which actually regulates and adapts national legislation to EU legislation. This law regulates matters relating to the breeding and conservation of genetic resources of livestock, their performance, breeding and genetic evaluation, the keeping of breeding books of different species, breeds, mostly by trade unions. I consulted the trade unions on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture on the draft resolution on this law, and the unions do not raise objections in this area. Amendments were considered at the committee meeting, most of the amendments The Ministry of Agriculture has welcomed the amendments tabled, and I would therefore ask that we adopt the draft law submitted together with the amendments. I would like to point out that I personally participated in the turn of the 1990s and the 2000s in how the Minister of Agriculture entrusted the tasks of keeping breeding books and then assessing the value of breeding, productive. It was a historic event when actually responsibility in this area, as it is all over the world, took over the trade unions of breed breeders of all animal species. Some of them have not been taken over, and on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, these tasks are carried out by the National Animal Breeding Centre. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, please accept the bill along with the amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? [[Yes.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have this question: was the committee meeting talking about how the bill regulates matters related to veterinary control of trade? And the second question is: what penalty will be applied for violation of the rules on horse competition rules? Thank you. [[Some of the questions weren't heard. If there's any way to repeat it...]] [[Can you repeat that, Senator?]] Was there a discussion at the committee's meeting about how the law regulates matters related to veterinary control in trade? And what penalty will be imposed, in accordance with that law, for violating the rules of the horse races? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u13	Indeed, this law deals with various issues and regulates matters relating to zootechnical requirements as well as veterinary requirements. One of the areas it refers to... She's making changes to the Spa Act. That's just one paragraph that changes those rules. Of course, all veterinary requirements, especially with regard to the marketing of genetic material, whether female or male, or egg cells, are under veterinary supervision. If there are any derogations, then on behalf of the Chief Veterinary Officer, and in fact the Minister of Agriculture... Then, of course, the trading entity in this area will be excluded. Those are sanctions. I do not know the specific provisions that would refer to the imposition of fines or other consequences. But if someone does not apply the requirements that apply, they will be deprived of the possibility of trading genetic material in the territory of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u14	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Hello, Mr. Secretary of State Richard Bartosik. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome. You have to press the button with the microphone sign on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I request that this law be adopted. It is a law adapting our provisions to the regulation of the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union, which regulates a lot of matters in this area. Here I would like to thank the Senate's agricultural committee for its cooperation and adoption, along with the amendments that have been welcomed by the Senate's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u16	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Senator rapporteur has partially answered my 2 questions, and partly not, so I will repeat them and redirect them to the Minister. I'll ask them again. How does the Act regulate matters related to veterinary control in trade? That's the first question. And second question. What criminal sanction, under the law, will be applied for violation of the rules on the rules of the horse races? Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u18	I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as the first question is concerned, the bill doesn't regulate this case. This case is governed by a different law. As regards the notification of horse competitions and possible penalties, a fine shall be imposed if the organisation of the horse competition does not report within the time limit of the event. Amendment was tabled in the Sejm It is included in the Law on this year. The point is that the organizers of the horse competition could be punished for not submitting the competition on time, not because of their fault, but because of the change of legislation. This amendment was therefore accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. As I understand it, there was also no obligation to respond in writing to the Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed and Mariusz Gromko have made speeches to the minutes. There were, as I understand it, no legislative proposals. I therefore close the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Feed. The text of the Act is contained in print No 266 and the report of the Commission In print No 266 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. It will be short because there was no big discussion. We met at a meeting where we discussed this issue. The issue concerns feedingstuffs, specifically imports of genetically modified plants. We want to extend the delegation for a further 2 years, because we believe that the protein program we have needs to develop more, we need to give even more opportunity for Polish farmers to produce as many protein crops as possible and we did not need to import genetically modified soybeans. Such programmes are being carried out, further actions are being prepared, and new technologies are growing. So that scientists are trying today to introduce varieties that would produce more in our climate. I hope that we will soon be able to introduce these solutions. We also remember the story that corn used to grow only for fodder, and today it is grown for seeds. I hope that, with the great progress and innovation we are seeing, soy will also produce even better in Poland, because farmers are already beginning to grow it. So, on behalf of the committee, I am sending a hot request that we support the draft resolution. It's short, it's just one change: a two-year shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u22	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Jarosław Rzep was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the draft law contained in Seym printing No 735. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? It is not known whether he wants to speak, but it is certain that he does not have one, so he cannot speak. I take it the other Member isn't here either? [[Voice from the room: There isn't one either.]] That's a disturbing signal, but well. It is difficult for me to propose to the venerable senators that questions be asked to those who are not in the courtroom, because I am afraid that I would violate the dignity of our House. In this connection, I will ask: does a government representative wish to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u23	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It is a parliamentary project, but the Ministry fully supports this change. It is necessary for our producers and breeders, since on 1 January 2021 the prohibition on the production, placing on the market and use in animal nutrition of genetically modified feedingstuffs enters into force. There is a need to amend the law enabling such products to be introduced into our territory, and this is for the purpose of producing protein feed. As you know, domestic production does not provide an adequate amount of protein. The project, the programme, is carried out in this area. Farmers receive subsidies and support, but there is a need to bring in soya. And that's what this project is about. The preliminary proposal was to extend this possibility for 4 years, but after discussions at the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in the Seym, this period was reduced by 2 years. And the government agrees with this proposal. We therefore propose that the High House adopt the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. I ask you to ask Senator Anthony the Man. You're welcome, Senator. I understand, in remote mode?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u25	Can't you hear me? [[You're on, Mr. Senator.]] Good. Thank you very much. [[And I can see you, too.]] I have a question for the Minister. Minister, it is known that the European Union, as far as GMOs are concerned, is against in general. However, we all know that without genetically modified soybeans no one, practically no country is able to function in the feed market, is able to provide the feed that animal producers need. And I have this question: how is it regulated in other countries? I ask because everyone has to apply it and everyone regulates it in a similar way as in Poland. And second question. What are the periods when these laws enter into force, those provisions on the prohibition of GMOs? How long are the periods of delaying these laws? I ask because we in Poland are practically entering a period which will probably be politically hot, because the legal term for elections to the Sejm is 2023... [[Mr. Senator, we have a minute to ask a question and we date every time...]] The first question I've asked... [[...that we will observe...]] Well, actually, that's just the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u26	Thank you, Senator. [[The one I asked, that's...]] I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u27	Dear Marshal, High Izbo, Mr Senator, there are no national laws in other EU countries prohibiting the introduction of genetically modified soybeans. In turn, there are provisions at Union level that allow the introduction of soya and other protein products for the production of feed. So that this soy is imported all over the Union. With us there is a provision of this type, therefore we use such an option that allows the introduction of soya and other genetically modified protein products for a certain period. And that is also the case in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about this record which extends the de facto time to the entry into force of the ban on the use of genetically modified feedingstuffs. I understand that this is the result of the farmers' request and this extension goes somewhat against the demands made by farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u30	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Yeah, of course that's what it looks like. We want to be competitive on the market, especially as regards poultry production. Without imports of soya, feed prices would have to increase significantly, which would undermine our competitiveness, and in general it would be difficult to provide a sufficient amount of protein for domestic production. We are counting on the European Commission's decision to use meat-and-bone meal in feed. That's what we're waiting for. This will probably reduce the import of soya, but it's still ahead of us, that's not a decision. So it's in the interests of farmers. All associations, agricultural organisations, seek to ensure that soybeans are genetically modified to be imported into the country. To conclude, this has a huge impact on the final cost of agricultural production in livestock farming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's about the task of three short questions. First of all, since we've been rolling this bill, I mean. Since when does this time lag work? Because it's another two years. Secondly, what type of feed the feed is concerned, i.e. What kind of feed for animals that are fed? I'm not talking about the name of the feed, I'm talking about the name of the feed for which the animals are used on the basis of genetically modified soybeans. And the third point, I think, is the most important one. In our society, there is a concern about GMOs in general, perhaps the Minister will dispel this concern. Before these feeds pass on to us through the animals we consume. There's such a fear. We go against this law, and in fact we open a very wide gate that allows these organisms to be genetically modified into the country. I'll admit, that's what I'm fighting about. with the "Prosperty +" programme. We were going with a slightly different election program and earlier, and the last one. I'm talking about Law and Justice and we were supposed to eliminate genetically modified organisms, not walk the line of least resistance. 'Cause we're just going through... Of course, it's a very short bill, but its consequences are far-reaching. So that's the third question. ♪ Resume ♪ And here's the thing: how do you think this is going to go, I would say, about our agriculture? This was supposed to be economic agriculture, based on own feed, produced right here in Poland, not large industrial fattening. So it's kind of an ancillary question: who are these feeds used by, or by a single farmer or by large-scale pigs?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Since 2006, we've been introducing... [[Voice from the room: Very little can be heard.]] [[Since 2006]] Since 2006, we have introduced provisions extending the possibility of importing and using genetically modified soybeans. As far as feedingstuffs are concerned, they are mainly used in poultry and pig farming. Well, I would like to say here that Europe as a whole has a problem, because meat and bone meal cannot be used, and the production of boboid plants is too low to ensure that protein can be used in feed and therefore such solutions are used. I have already said that this has a huge impact on competitiveness, because these feeds are simply cheaper. As far as the harmfulness of soya is concerned, we have studies from the Institute of Zootechnics and these studies show that protein is distributed in the digestive tract of farmed animals and that this should therefore not affect the health of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, we also face this problem because of the fact that production, e.g. poultry production, in recent years it has been developing a lot, and we just have too little of these feeds. As in other countries of the European Union. Therefore, the reality is not different. If we want to provide farmers with the possibility of feeding feeds whose prices allow the final product to be competitive on the markets, we must agree to this solution at the moment. Nevertheless, other solutions need to be sought. We expect, as I mentioned earlier, the European Commission's decision to introduce meat-and-bone meal, which would also have a significant impact on the possibility of using various post-mortem waste on farms rather than rendering it waste. This is the first case. And the second point: we should continue to encourage farmers to produce legumes. There are subsidies, incentives, but the production or sowing of these plants is not at a level that would allow sufficient legumes to be provided for the production of feed. Therefore, this solution is simply necessary at this moment. Thank you very much. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u37	I didn't get the answer to the last question. This applies, as I understand it, mainly to large industrial fattening?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u38	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, this applies to every kind of fattening, because, as we know, small farms also use feed that they buy from a feed factory. Farming technology is changing, but it is obvious that the largest amount of feed is fed in large farms producing or breeding pigs and poultry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. That's it. That's it. That's it. Minister, I would like to ask how many thousands of tons are estimated to require feed protein in Poland. And how much per cent of this production is domestic production, and how much do we import? And how much do we actually pay for this import per year?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u41	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We import about 1 million tons. This represents 70% participation in the production of feed. About 30% is domestic production. That's how it's shaped today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u43	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, it's still about the cost of this import... You're welcome, sir. You're welcome, sir. [[I would also like to ask you about the cost of importing feed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u44	Mr. Senator, if you don't mind, we'll answer in writing because we don't have that data here and now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u45	Thank you. I therefore inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. No further questions. I therefore open the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I wasn't supposed to speak much today, especially since this bill is short and obvious, but the questions asked seem to oblige me to answer some of them here. The question was, since when is it? It was the Senate of the Republic of Poland that introduced this amendment to the Law on Feed in 2006 at its request. I was the author of this amendment. We have been fighting for this all the time, probably since 2000, but in 2006 we definitely introduced this fight against genetically modified plants, among others. in the case of feedingstuffs, and a solution not to bring them back. We hear accusations that we're acting a little weird because genetically modified plants can't be grown, but feed can be imported. Therefore, as you can see, this fight is quite long. But we know that change is slow, it takes a long time, but farmers are getting more involved. A and the European Commission are currently limiting the number of genetically modified plant species that are grown in Europe. Therefore, the climate around which, you can say, is created by the public, in the European Union is generally opposed to the use of genetically modified plants, especially feed. This fight is now on the so-called basis. Telling the public and consumers want to know what's in the food. And in the case of imported food that is genetically modified, there is an obligation to label it. So each consumer chooses the products they want to see if the product they buy, e.g. Soy, it's genetically modified or not. That's where the consumer decides. This cannot be applied directly to feed, there is no authorisation for such provisions, so that we write down that these breeding products which are produced using feed are to be determined that the animals were fed genetically modified feedingstuffs. But in Poland and in many other countries it is already described that animal products, i.e. meat or milk, have not been produced using genetically modified feed. Consumers are very happy to buy products that are marked with such a logo, it is becoming more and more popular. And some products, which are regional products, products registered by the Ministry of Agriculture or high quality products As we say, very high, they are considered to be so-called. organic food... Genetically modified feed may also not be used in their production. These products are checked, controlled and there is no possibility of genetically modified feed. Therefore, a large proportion of imports to Poland are feed, which are for livestock farmers in the organic system. They are imported, e.g. Soy is imported from Ukraine, which is not genetically modified soybean. So in the world, soy is also produced, which is not genetically modified. She's more expensive, but not enough not to buy it. But the biggest pain for breeders is that, for example. the price difference in feed is around 10% This is how it is calculated by different experts, because everyone has different opinions. Well, you could say that on average it's... The maximum of that is 10%. And some say it's 5%. at prices. Therefore, it would be possible to import soya, which is not genetically modified That's exactly what it's all about, 'cause he feeds mostly on buckshot... But farmers are most outraged maybe not by the fact that this price is so high, because the consumer is willing to pay a higher price if he sees this marking I was talking about; the biggest problem is the so-called one. speculative declines that are on the market. Here the farmer loses, for example. 5% on costs and recently on markets loses e.g. 30%. So the question is, what's the problem? Is this a feed problem, or are these market speculations actually a problem? What happens on world markets that we lose today, for example. 30% on poultry, and in other periods even more? So the biggest danger for farmers is what I'm talking about, these speculations, as I often call them, which cause farmers to lose enormous amounts of farming. Hence, my constant call for us to make Poland grow more and more as the European Commission wants us to apply the changes, i.e. the so-called ones. crop rotation, and more and more greening, giving us a chance to grow boboid plants in Poland, protein plants such as peas or others, or even soya, the idea is that we should grow this and not import them, not spend so much money on imports. And the second element that the world raises all the time. There is talk of Green Deal, there is talk of climate, there is talk of all other issues, but we forget about the issue of transporting these products. After all, ships continue to flow, and this means powerful pollution, and goods are transported all the time. That is why, recently, Commissioner for Agriculture of the European Union, our Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski stresses that there is a direction related to regional food So that it's as close as possible to being as short as possible. This is the direction of not transporting, not importing, and using what is local. And that's the most important thing, because you feel best about how you eat and affect the health of local, regional food rather than imported food. We should strive as much as possible to be self-sufficient, and we can be self-sufficient. That's why I'm in favour of restricting... But the situation is that we haven't adapted yet, because, even though I was the initiator at the time, I agree to this period, only for these two years, so as soon as possible we can adjust our local production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u47	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I am in some trouble because Senator Antoni Mężyłko has made a legislative proposal without taking part in the debate. In accordance with our custom and our rules of procedure, I am obliged to ask the rapporteur to respond to the legislative amendments, but I understand that you do not know them, and it is therefore difficult for you to respond to them. To be honest, I'd like to ask you to help me resolve this dilemma. Mr Antoni Mężyłko has submitted proposals of a legislative nature, and the rapporteur cannot respond to them because he does not know them, because the senator has not submitted them in the debate, but in another way. [[Voice from the room: Only remotely...]] Only remotely. [[Voice from the room: In that case...]] Anyway, there must be a committee meeting, and I therefore understand that the senator will have no objection that I will not now give the senator the floor to ask you to respond to these requests. I would like to inform you that, as legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The text of the Act is contained in print 253 and the report of the Commission In print No 253 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Potoj, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, this change that we discussed at the committee meeting, is completely uncontroversial, has been accepted by all the members of the committee, and is very much needed. What's it all about? So far, the applicants at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office have had 30 days' leave in the first and second years, but they did not have such leave at all in the third year. And since this is an extremely difficult year, because in addition to normal classes there are still difficult exams to prepare for, the ministry has come to the conclusion, and rightly so, that this holiday cycle will change and that applicants will have 21 days of leave each year. For this, the applicants themselves were a little clenched, who said that, according to this amendment, the first and second years, those present, would have less leave than the others. I proposed an amendment, going out to these applicants' requests, to make sure they had this vacation right away, in the third year at least a little bit. Second year... And that amendment went through. Therefore, those who are now in the first year will have a total of 72 days' leave, and those who are in the second year's leave will have a total of 72 days' leave. 74. Each of the applicants, once this transition period has passed, will have 63 days of vacation, spread out after 21 days each year. And that's actually all I can say about it. There was, like I said, no controversy. The committee unanimously accepted this solution, approved by the Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u49	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There's a call. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u50	Thank you very much. I have no doubt about the very intention of this change, as well as the amendments tabled by Senator Alexander Pociej. Being the Senate's representative of the state in KRS, I observe various meanders of nominations, promotional processes, as well as possible fries. I would like to ask the President, the rapporteur, one question. The point is, there's no confusion. Well, this article is important. 33a point 5a, which concerns citizenship. I want to make it clear that this kind of solution, as well as the expectation of graduates, participants in this whole educational project, does not close the road to education to the citizens of European Union countries. I would like to remind you that this university, this school, works very closely with the European Network of Justice Personnel Training, and it would be good if, by clearly building the process of acquiring assesasors, we did not create a barrier in the context of the educational process itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u51	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u52	Thank you. To be honest, we talked less about this, if any, during our committee meeting. In my understanding, there have been no changes here which, I would say, would make the previous solutions worse. So that I cannot say 100% at the moment, Mr. Senator, whether in any case holders of any nationality other than Polish will be able to study there. This was not discussed. But we have representatives of the Ministry here who will be able to answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u53	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I would like to raise the same issue that you raised, Senator Zdrojewski, only that I would like to ask about scholarships. Are those people who have a different nationality than Polish... Will such an applicant who received such a scholarship earlier have to return it? And what time is it going to take to get that scholarship back? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u55	Unfortunately, I can't share my knowledge here in any way, because we haven't talked about it at all. This was not the subject of the committee at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u56	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I had four questions for the rapporteur, but Senator Zdrojewski almost answered three questions, so I would just like to ask one question. Do you have any idea... was there a discussion about what percentage of the people of the Assessors, prosecutors and courts may be affected by this law? Is there at least such oriental knowledge?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u59	Yeah, there was a speech about that. As far as I can remember, it was either three or four people. Yeah, but I can't... I can't remember exactly, but it was a pretty small number of people.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u60	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you again if it was mentioned at the committee meeting, in which case the applicants will be able to apply for the position of judicial assistant, despite the opposition of the National Judicial Council. Does the law regulate this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u62	We didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. Neither was the subject raised at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. Because there are no further questions... [[Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Yes.]] Minister, you're welcome. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr Pociej gave a comprehensive presentation of the matter related to this law. I understand that questions can be repeated, so I can answer questions that have not yet been answered. Thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? This is, first, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u64	Yes, I will repeat my question, in line with the rapporteur's intention. I'm very interested in a fairly precise answer. The question concerns the fate of the citizens of the European Union, perhaps it is also important for the citizens of Ukraine, and maybe it is also a form of assistance for refugees from Belarus. Is this entry in the article. However, 33a point 5a will not block access And I'm not talking about formal because we know that. - to the national school I mentioned to the citizens of the European Union? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u65	Thank you kindly, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u66	High Senate! Mr. Senator! No, she won't be blocking access. The formal requirement for admission to the application is, of course, Polish citizenship, but not only Polish citizenship, so during education you can have more than one citizenship. However, a person who has more than one nationality will not be able to become an asessor and judge in accordance with the new rules introduced.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This issue of exclusive citizenship, only Polish citizenship, is quite interesting, because it appears in an increasing number of categories maybe not officials, but I'd call it State officials. Here it concerns prosecutors and judges, but it also appears in other laws. In turn our act on citizenship is so constructed that we accept by default that our citizen, the citizen of Poland, has only Polish citizenship and we do not examine external citizenship, we do not check whether anyone has it or not. Our foreign citizenship does not affect the legal status of... Well, it wasn't until recently. As I say, this does not affect the legal status of our citizen from the point of view of the Citizenship Act. Here only the possession of Polish citizenship is to be established on the basis of a statement. According to this law, this is how it's supposed to be said. As it is regulated by the law, I would call it, the main one, that is, the one concerning the prosecution and the courts, I do not know that. You'd have to go with the minister... I would ask the Minister to remind us how it is stated to have only Polish citizenship according to court laws, according to the law on the system of common courts and the law about the prosecution. The question is whether the finding of this fact, which is based only on a declaration, can be verified in any way. I understand that a statement is being made, but we are not sure that it is true. Is it verified, or are we waiting for possible, in quotes, kind reports that a given statement is, suppose, false? How is such a statement verified? Is this even possible in the current legal state when it comes to the Citizenship Act?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u69	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u70	High Senate! Mr. Senator! This is not an event, it does not apply only in Poland. This is a practice also found in other countries of the European Union. For specific categories of public officials And this category is undoubtedly the function of judge or prosecutor, an absolutely fundamental function for the whole system. Only citizenship is introduced. The solutions adopted in the Act relating to applicants of the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office are identical to those relating to judges and prosecutors. Namely, statements are required of those persons, which are, of course, made under criminal responsibility. There's a penalty for making false statements. We assume that we are dealing with serious and educated people who are well aware of criminal liability, which can result not only in judgment but above all in disciplinary proceedings. Such persons are simply removed by profession. So, in our deep conviction, the verification system based on the statement is sufficient. This was also the practice in previous terms. Legislation is going this way to make life easier for citizens, so we require statements from them, not certificates or other documents. If the National Judicial Council at the stage of the examination of formal requirements had raised very serious doubts, then of course it could have asked the relevant authorities to clarify this issue. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u72	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to repeat these two questions I have asked the Senator of the rapporteur. I know that wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting. I asked about these scholarships. What will it look like if the applicant has a non-Polish nationality? How long will it take to get your scholarship back? And second question. In what case will the applicants be able to apply for the position of judicial assailant despite the opposition of the National Judicial Council? Does the law provide for such a situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u74	As for the reimbursement of scholarships, the rule of the previous law still applies. This is a deadline of 30 days from the date of delivery of the decision on reimbursement of the scholarship. In this respect, the law does not introduce new regulations. On the other hand, as regards the possibility of accepting an applicant... No, I'm sorry. The senator asked if the applicant with the negative opinion of the National Judicial Council could still apply for an assesura. Well, if the procedure is pending before the National Court of Justice, then it is the Council that is competent to determine whether or not a person fulfils the formal requirements. Of course, attempts have been made to verify this, e.g. by administrative, judicial and administrative means or otherwise. Judicial practice and case law show that in some cases such action is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u75	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u76	Yes, Mr. Marshal, this is kind of a continuation, which in a sense stems from the Minister's reply. Namely those categories of officials who should have Polish citizenship... To make it clear: I very much approve of this, we really should strive for a European standard and selected categories of government important for you should be related to having only Polish citizenship. These are simply basic issues of loyalty, the question of which the State is bound by the duty of loyalty. But because these categories are increasing, among others. I would like to ask you if you consider that the law on citizenship should be amended. Perhaps it doesn't go directly into your area, more into the MSWiA area. In any case, shouldn't you be the initiator of this change for these reasons? As I say, it's getting more and more common, and just making a statement. Without any, I would call it official verification, perhaps only selective, not universal, without the possibility of verification, which the procedure would have been established by law, and only in such a way would it have become a lame tool in a way. This is just a statement, without any legal possibility of verification and counting, I'm sorry, let me put it in simple terms. For a possible report to someone who finds that the candidate concerned does not fulfil this important requirement to take up a given post, the function concerned. To sum up, isn't it just time to change the citizenship bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u77	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u78	Indeed, the senator rightly pointed out that this is matter in the capacity of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. And in this respect, in which the Minister of Justice is competent, we act, as can be seen in connection with this law, leading to the exclusive category of Polish citizenship being introduced into the legal order as a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u79	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any more questions to ask. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that there are no speakers, no one signed up for the discussion. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Aleksander Szwed, Krzysztof Brejza and Władysław Komarnicki made speeches in the discussion on the minutes. Legislative proposals have not been tabled. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Sejm meeting. [[Voice from the Senate.]] Excuse me, senate. I'm so sorry. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001. The text of the Act is contained in print No 244 and the Commission's reports In print No 244 A and No 244 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The ratification of the Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001 imposes, in accordance with its objectives, a number of tasks and will require Poland to amend Polish law, among others. to prohibit the use of underwater cultural heritage for commercial purposes. There must also be an amendment to water law, the rights governing information obligations must be introduced and the catalogue of sites recognised as archaeological monuments should be supplemented with objects of underwater cultural heritage. Ratification will also require the institution responsible for carrying out the tasks arising from these obligations, an institution which will have to ensure cooperation, cooperation in the conduct of archaeological research. It will have to carry out exploration and document, preserve, present objects and disseminate research. The Convention also requires the appointment of a national coordinator. In addition, we are obliged to have a specialised team of divers with appropriate skills and competence to conduct underwater archaeological research. It is also very important to designate the institution responsible for carrying out the tasks of the Convention and to ensure that other institutions participate in the work. The explanatory memorandum already indicates an institution to be a coordinator, the National Heritage Institute, an institution that performs a wide range of tasks very well. Unfortunately, as far as I am aware, it does not have an exhibition space, so there is a recommendation that the National Heritage Institute, in carrying out its tasks under the convention, will start working with the modern museums of underwater archaeology in Łeba, which will have impressive exhibition areas that allow the use of very modern forms of exhibition, modern forms of education, as well as the dissemination of knowledge. Because, as I said, the Convention imposes an obligation to prepare the scientific and research staff of divers, according to the justification, a group of 10 divers specialised in research are to be prepared annually. Therefore, diving courses are to be conducted for students of archaeological studies. But I would like to stress that the Faculty of Archaeology at the University of Warsaw educates underwater archaeologists who have the ability to conduct archaeological underwater research. Diving takes place on specific underwater archaeological sites, and this staff is educated by high-quality experts from the University of Warsaw and the Institute of Oceanography, as well as from the National Maritime Museum in Gdańsk. At its meeting, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union unanimously adopted the proposal to ratify the Convention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u81	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a 10-minute recess due to the absence of senators who are necessary for our further proceeding. I'm forced to announce this 10-minute break. The session will be resumed at 10.35 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 23 to 10 minutes 35]] High Senate, resume your session. High Senate, in view of the fact that the senators have not reached our meeting until then, without which it is not possible to continue to proceed with item 13 on the agenda, we are putting off further proceedings until the rapporteur senators arrive. And now we are considering item 14 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print No 241 and the committee's report in print No 241-A. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u82	I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Michał Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union of the Senate of the Republic of Poland requests the adoption of an attached draft resolution on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016. The ratification was adopted by the Sejm on 27 October 2020. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the issue of ratification was not controversial and the ratification resolution was unanimously supported by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u84	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any questions? [[One.]] One, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Is there a government representative? [[Voice from the room: Not yet.]] There's no government representative. Mr. Senator, do you want to ask a question? [[Not that much, Mr. Marshal.]] 'Cause I'm gonna have to take a break. [[No, no, thank you.]] Thank you very much, Senator. There are no questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no, there's no representative. What's next? [[Talking in the O.R.]] The 14th? [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Just a second. Senator Swede reporting for questioning.]] But to which point? [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: To the 13th point.]] [[But the 13th point was suspended.]] [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: I know, but...]] We'll be back at 13 when the rapporteur gets here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Good. [[Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: One second, Mr. Marshal...]] No, no, I'm not waiting. I have closed the discussion, and I am merely informing you that the speeches in the minutes were delivered by Senator Mariusz Gromko and Senator Alexander Sweed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by nationals of one State residing in the territory of the other State, signed in Warsaw on 29 May 2020. The text of the Act is contained in print No 242 and the Commission's reports In print No 242 A, 242 B and 242 C. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senate, after considering the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by nationals of one State residing in the territory of the other State, signed in Warsaw on 29 May 2020, adopted the Act without amendment, with a recommendation that the Senate adopt the attached draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u86	Thank you, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Michał Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This ratification report is slightly different from most ratification reports that we treat in the Senate and also in the Sejm Quite routine, and rightly so, because they stem from the policy of the Polish state and are very rarely controversial. This ratification, which I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union today, is also a non-controversial ratification, I believe, of course, a vote in the Sejm. However, I would like to emphasise, especially today, the particular dimension of this ratification. This is because today, in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, we will vote in favour of ratification of the agreement between Poland and the United Kingdom, which is a direct consequence of Brexit. Under the authority of the European Union citizen, all Poles who have moved to the UK legally in recent years, and all British who have done the same. Although they are of course incomparably less And they lived in our country, they obtained the right to vote in local elections under EU law. In this case even the Polish Constitutional Tribunal stated very clearly that, due to the very precise powers of local authorities in Poland, granting the right to vote in them to citizens of other countries, but who are citizens of the European Union, is not in violation of the principles of our Polish constitution. There's no point in me presenting the entire legal statement that accompanied this argument. However, with the UK leaving the European Union, Poles living in the UK and British living in Poland faced the need for a solution. In addition to many other problems It's also a problem. And it can be said that it is very good that despite the brexite, in what we consider to be the European spirit, as well as the spirit of self-government and democracy, under a bilateral agreement between Poland and the United Kingdom Poles in the United Kingdom will be able to vote in local elections in the United Kingdom. Why did I allow myself to draw the attention of the venerable senators to the particular dimension of this ratification today? It is today that the British Government has provided the first data required by the Brexit regulations for the registration of nationals of other countries asking for the right to reside in the United Kingdom. And, ladies and gentlemen, this is a message, I believe, but for us, above all, the sad 770 thousand citizens of the Republic of Poland, according to data provided today by the British Government, have reported a desire to live in the territory of the United Kingdom. Today we will vote, Dear Senators, that these 770 000 Polish citizens, as soon as they are of age, can shape the reality of their local communities in the United Kingdom. I express my hope that we, Poles, representatives of the Polish state, will support them in political activity in the country Let us hope that temporary residence, because it is important that Poles who operate in the UK today as such a significant group have their influence by participating in local elections also on the public life of the United Kingdom. The same, let's call it, the problem in Poland on a mass scale does not exist, because, I suppose, none of us will defend the the thesis that the British are an important group of electorates in some, even the smallest, commune in Poland. I would very much ask the Senate to give a positive opinion on this ratification, to support it in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u88	Thank you. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Gromek, to present a report to the committee. Senator Janusz Gromek? [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: What is happening today?]] [[Voice from the room: It started with this 13th.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the hall: Janusz, not Mariusz. Mariusz Gromko.]] Senator Janusz Gromko... [[The voice from the room: Thunderbolt or Thunderbolt?]] Mr. Senator... [[Voice from the room: Mariusz or who?]] Janusz Gromka. For the third time... (Voice from the hall: Gromek.) Thunderbolt. It's not written right. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Rapporteur for the local government committee. Did I make a mistake? [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] There it is. Mr. Senator... [[Excuse me.]] The senate is very fast. [[Today. Let's hope that's the way it's gonna be every session.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u89	Mr. Marshal! Dear ladies and gentlemen, I think my previous speakers have already told us what this is all about. It is about ratifying the agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain. That's what I say on behalf of the council committee. It is an agreement on participation in certain elections by citizens of one country residing in the territory of another country, signed in Warsaw. I will not present the purpose or the course of the sitting, because this has already been done. In order not to prolong, I ask you, Mr. Marshal, to vote this out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u90	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Who volunteered for the question? I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u91	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, you're rushing so fast that I didn't get to the rapporteur's question at the previous point. I have a question about this point. Ratification is as positive as possible, uncontroversial, so that we support it. I'd like to ask. This is such a specific question. Is there any question at the meeting of any committee about what provision... [[Disruption during the speech]] What time will be devoted to these changes? Thank you. [[We didn't understand anything.]] [[Mr. Senator, can you repeat that question because we didn't understand. There were breaks in the video.]] All right, Mr. Marshal. What electoral provisions will be revised and how long will the ratification of the agreement be spent on these changes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u92	There you go. Senator Kaminski is responding.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u93	Senator, I assure you, there is no need to modify any electoral regulations either in the Republic of Poland or in the United Kingdom. This is only about granting the right to vote under the same rules and the same ordinations that were in force and in Poland and in the United Kingdom before Brexit. This case is not about the electoral procedure, it is about people who are entitled to vote. Therefore, this has no impact on the ordination.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u94	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u95	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, let me disagree with this answer. It's kind of disturbing. Because the electoral code deals with the concept of a citizen of the European Union. The British will cease to be citizens of the European Union... when? January, right? January 1st. This is a little bit more important because we have made it possible for European Union citizens other than Polish citizens to take part in elections, but only in the elections to the authorities, I am talking about the passive electoral law that constitutes, and it is only communes, not powiats and not voivodships. We didn't make it available in the organ election or... Let's face it: in the election of the voivodships, the presidents and the mayors. And now there's a question. I don't know if the senator can answer them. Is this symmetry going to be preserved because it should be? I don't know what the British system is in this case, in the case of local elections. And second of all, is... Maybe it's not so much about whether it's symmetry, but whether it's the laws that I'm going to say so, about the rights in the election to... that is, the rights that the citizens of the European Union have and still have. Because it doesn't have to be that way. Please note: we are signing a new contract. And this is an event, because we do not give such rights to those who are foreign to us, i.e. not Polish citizens residing outside the European Union. This is, in a sense, the preservation of the rights acquired by the British, which they had as citizens of the European Union. But it's not so obvious. Because in this way we could give all the citizens of the world the right to vote for local authorities. Well, of course, we get it. In quotation marks It pays because our Polish citizens in the UK are much more than the British are here. But, as I say, it's kind of a breakthrough, a system change. I will therefore have another question for the Minister. Therefore, ♪ Resume ♪ Whether there is full symmetry here and whether we retain those rights that were in the case of European elections... I mean, no European elections come back. It is about the rights of citizens of the European Union in the case of local elections, as I said, not all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u96	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u97	Mr. Senator, that's... That important problem you raised was not the committee's concern. And it seems to me that the more appropriate addressee of this question is the government that presented the Sejm with a proposal to ratify this agreement. And, as you have rightly pointed out, this is ours, so this government, the sovereign decision that we decide to take this step in our relationship with the United Kingdom. I understand you weren't suggesting... Because, of course, the issue of European elections does not apply here because the United Kingdom will not participate in the elections to the European Parliament. And as far as symmetry is concerned, I can only tell you that from my knowledge and from my previous practice in other areas, it is clear that these bilateral agreements which the Member States sign with the United Kingdom to, so to speak, fill in the gap, most often as if they were reflecting the deal that has been concluded between the European Union and the United Kingdom. But we were at the committee meeting assured that the status of Polish citizens in the UK in this area, in the area concerning the right to vote, would not be worsened, only de facto improved. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u98	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u99	It'll be a question more addressed to... Unless the senator has that information. As for local elections, which we call local governments, please note that we in the case of powiats and voivodships have no rights for Europeans Well, let's call them that. We did not give to citizens of the European Union. But it's not out of the question. I don't know. That some EU countries gave Poles electoral rights at a sufficiently higher level than this basic level in local elections. I don't know what it's like in Britain, but here's the freedom, some countries could have given more. Well, there can't be symmetry here. Please note that 27 different systems exist in the case of local elections as regards the rights of citizens of the European Union. Some countries choose implementing bodies directly, some indirectly. There can be no perfect symmetry here, so it is different for Poland to the citizens of the European Union, or for Poland and the UK, the United Kingdom. This is contrary to appearances of the fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u100	Is the senator able to answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u101	I'll just read the article. 1 of this deal. Within the meaning of this Agreement, municipal elections in respect of the United Kingdom shall mean elections to local government elections, elections to executive bodies in municipalities, mayoral elections, and elections to a joint executive body for several municipalities, combined authority mayoral elections, in accordance with the definitions adopted in the legislation of the United Kingdom. The second point states that local government elections in relation to the Republic of Poland mean elections to communal councils, elections of communes, mayors and city presidents, in accordance with the definitions adopted in the legislation of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u102	Contrary to appearances... I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but that's not all. There is a matter of passive and active law. I understand you've read about active law, which is who can choose, but the question is whether I can be chosen. In our country, no one with a nationality other than the Polish one can be elected, and neither can the President. I'm not talking about... I'm just talking about direct elections. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u103	But I don't argue with the senator at all. I just read the contract. I think that's a question for a government representative.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u104	Good. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I can read it. There's art, too. 2...]] No, no. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Interior were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do any of the ministers wish to speak? Do Minister Wawrzyk and Minister Grodecki want to address the issue of this agreement?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u105	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, [[If you don't mind, I'm asking you to answer Senator Czerwinski's doubts immediately.]] Good. As far as explanations are concerned, active and passive electoral law applies to municipal councils, and active electoral law applies to elected authorities, mayors and city presidents. Is that the answer to your question? [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u106	There you go. [[I'm sorry, but now that I've been called...]] One minute. Here you go, one minute for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u107	Yes, sir, just a minute. I know what the rights of citizens of the European Union are right now. I want to know what you signed in this contract. I am asking you whether the British will have an active electoral right, i.e. the possibility of selecting candidates for communal councils, district councils and voivodships. I ask because Europeans had only this opportunity in the case of communal councils and passive electoral rights, i.e. being elected, to communal councils, to the governor, the mayor, the president, i.e. as an executive body. And there, because when it comes to the issue of district government and voivodship, there is no right to be elected Europeans. Do I make myself clear? How will this be the case with Poland and Great Britain? In what case can a Pole be chosen in the UK and in what case can he choose? Briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u108	Thank you. Minister Wawrzyk, will Minister Grodecki answer this question? You can answer the two of you, just not together. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister Grodecki, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u109	Mr. Senator, active and passive law only applies to municipal councils, and active electoral law applies to the election of wojites, mayors and city presidents. Thank you. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. That's part of the deal, isn't it?]] Yes, Mr. Senator. [[In that case, we're gonna have to change the code?]] Mr. Senator, as far as the electoral code is concerned, this is where the State Election Commission is. Of course, we can accept, and that is the case in law, that an international agreement takes precedence over national law, but whether or not we are going to change the code, I think we should leave it to the decision of the State Election Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u110	Thank you. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u111	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Czerwiński basically developed the thought I put in my question, and my question was: how will the electoral regulations be revised and how long will it take to change the ratification of this agreement? Because I understand that the electoral code will have to be revised. That was the question. Mr Marshal, since I could not ask the rapporteur 2 questions about the partnership agreement with Canada at the previous point, could I now redirect them and ask the Minister? [[Now we ask the ministers.]] Yeah, yeah, that's good. Well, if I may, then... In the previous point, I wanted to ask you this question, or... [[No, not when you're late, Mr. Senator, but unfortunately.]] All right, Mr. Marshal. It's just that... [[Right now, we're asking the ministers questions. Do you want to ask the Minister another question?]] ...which electoral regulations will be revised and what time will be spent on these changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u112	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, one more question, I'm sorry.]] Please. [[It is important, contrary to appearances.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u113	That is the question of the time of entry into force of this agreement. You know, after the ratification. There's probably a certain date after the deposit of the ratification documents, etc. But with us, the organ elections, I'd call it, the locals take place every five years and we're the only ones interested. The next one will be in three years. But there are supplementary elections during the term of office, and now the question is: will we apply this agreement to the new term of office of councils, in this case the councils of municipalities and mayors, executive bodies, or also to supplementary elections, in general, during the term of office? These are three kinds of different choices after the office has been emptied, let's call it that. Because it depends on the date of entry into force of this agreement, but also on transitional provisions. Maybe there's some, like. saying that we have been applying this since the next election, the next new term. That determines how quickly we have to deal with the code, in short.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u114	There you go, Minister Grodecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u115	Dear Senator, this applies to all the elections that will take place after the entry into force of the Polish agreement with Great Britain. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u116	When does it come in? The senator also asked when it's coming into force. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u117	After ratification, I understand, generally after submitting documents. But this is an uncertain date because the president doesn't have to ratify right away... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Using this moment... Mr. Marshal, this usually happens some time after the ratification papers have been deposited... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: It is 30 days.]] ...but the date of ratification is uncertain because the President is not bound by anything here and he can ratify it next month, next year, and the date of the amendment of the electoral code is crucial in spite of appearances. Because as I've heard, the British can now, in short, start and run, and choose. Of course, I'm talking about the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u118	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u119	The Agreement shall enter into force 30 days after the second notification of the completion of the ratification procedure, the second, i.e. country notes which will then complete the ratification procedures. 30 days from the moment one party hands over this note to the other on the completion of ratification procedures, this agreement I would like to stress: the agreement, because the senators are considering the ratification law. It's coming into force. As a result, it will apply to all elections Whether in Poland or in the UK, I would like to point out that there may also be early elections, in which the first election activities will begin after that date, after its entry into force. As far as the procedure is concerned, I would point out that, as I said, this is a bill, and therefore the President is bound by the constitutional term as is the case with any other law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u120	Minister, but since this is a Brexit contract that starts on January 1st, isn't it... Because it seems to me that she should enter into force on 1 January, because she is connected with the UK's exit from the EU.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u121	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but I'm concerned about the Minister's statement. The President is bound by a deadline of 21 days for signing the bill, but I don't think so when it comes to ratification, because this is a completely different act. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Yes.]] And is there a deadline for ratification? There's no term.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u122	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u123	Not for ratification, of course. However, you are considering the bill, and the President will only be able to act after the Senate has passed the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u124	Thank you. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, senators Mariusz Gromko, Alexander Szwed and Krzysztof Brejza have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 243 and the Commission's reports In prints No 243 A and 243 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Allow me to speak from the place. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on 20 November considered the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018; Senate printing No 243, Seym printing No 459 and 592. The purpose of the amendments to be ratified is to extend the validity of the maritime employment contract for the period of detention of a seafarer on or off the ship as a result of a pirate attack on the ship. The ship owner must pay the salary for the work also for the time when the sailor is held by the pirates As well as extending the right of a seafarer to be repatriated free of charge in such a situation. This is what these amendments are about. They are also important today, in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, when the work of a seafarer or the period during which he is on board is prolonged for reasons independent of such a seafarer. The Legislative Office has not tabled any proposals for amendments. Several senators spoke in the discussion. I asked how many people, how many Polish sailors, so to speak, are subject to the situation described in this convention. Present at the committee meeting, Minister Grybarczyk stated that e.g. In 2016, this concerned 8 Polish sailors kidnapped by the shores of Nigeria. There was also a question from Senator Gawada about when captains flying under foreign flags will be able to return to the Polish flag, to which Mr Grybarczyk also replied, that the purpose of the government is to introduce such changes in the employment law on merchant ships, so that they can be on the one hand as much social protection as possible for seafarers and, on the other hand, for the Polish flag to be a competitive flag. There was a question, Senator Lover, about the mariner's social security. Minister Grybarczyk stated that the law on this solution is currently being discussed with the European Union and trade unions, because this ratification and this law we are discussing is of a technical nature. The Commission adopted the Act without undue disagreement, unanimously, with 8 votes in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u126	Thank you. Now the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Michał Kaminski, will present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, of course, welcomes the request to ratify this international agreement, to support the resolution of the Senate of the Seym Law on the ratification of the Maritime Labour Agreement. This case, I suppose. It also shows that a brief discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union shows very clearly that when in bodies such as the Sejm and the Senate we deal with documents that may sound foreign and seem distant from normal human life, these are often the cases where we can do something good for specific people. Today this agreement extends the rights of Polish seafarers after years We're talking about it here because we're representing them. For better care, you might say, social assistance and, above all, compensation in situations where they are in trouble independently of each other. If I recommend this ratification to the High Senate, I'll say that I think on behalf of all the senators. Today we are thinking with people of the Polish sea. We know what work they do, what responsibility they are responsible for, and how difficult it is for families of Polish sailors. Today, the Polish Senate gives Polish sailors, through this ratification, the opportunity to better protect their rights.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u128	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I see Senator Jan Maria Jackowski reporting to Senator Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for both the rapporteurs... [[You're welcome. Senator Kaminski, too?]] That's to evenly share the questions of two colleagues, the most adorable senators. That's right. I have the following question for Senator Libicki: during your committee's meeting, was it about what this phenomenon is related to this piracy and whether the Polish side is active? And I know that different countries are proposing different solutions of a military nature, maybe not a military nature, but, I would say, an organizational and police policy, to simply eliminate this phenomenon, which is very harmful to international shipping, especially in certain areas? Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? Will the Polish side also be actively involved in these activities? And a question for you, Marshal Kaminski. If that's the case... Because Mr. Marshal mentioned that we are doing the right thing for the citizens on the occasion of this ratification. And that's a very good point. Well, if there is a situation that a Polish citizen is flying the flag of a country which is not a party to this convention, and will be harmed as a result of pirates' actions, whether he will suffer injury to his health or in connection with this retention... Will he be covered by this Convention as a citizen of Poland ..and Poland is a party. Isn't it? Because that, too, is an important question in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u130	Thank you. You're welcome, gentlemen. [[Who's first?]] [[Maybe...]] Mr. Senator... [[Mr. Marshal one, me two.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u131	First of all, I would like to express my great joy, I think, on behalf of the whole House because of the fact that Senator Jackowski was found, whose disappearance filled us all with fear. And I can assure you that among the many scenarios we consider... [[He wasn't...]] ...there was no missing senator at sea. Nevertheless, I think I am very pleased, on behalf of all the senators, that I can answer the question to the senator. I think that's a pretty obvious answer, and if anyone thinks it's cliché, please forgive me. Mr. Senator, I believe the agreement concerns the parties to the agreement that ratify this agreement. Like for example. Buying a séance ticket means we're gonna watch the movie we bought the ticket for. The same is true if the parties conclude a contract and it is a multilateral agreement, it shall be binding on those parties which have agreed to it. Therefore, the senator's question is whether, if a Polish citizen is harmed in any way and will be employed to work at sea under the flag of a country which is not a party to the agreement... I think the answer to that question is pretty obvious. But, I believe, countries that are not parties to this agreement, and which are effectively pursuing maritime policy, are... I am not a specialist in this area, but, I believe, there are very few such countries. So that the problem you're talking about is, I think, a very theoretical problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u132	Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u133	Can I... I'll be honest with you, sir, not all the points of Senator Jackowski's question I've picked up, but I can tell you that... [[I'll do it again.]] Yeah, say that again, then. [[If the marshal agrees.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u134	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u135	I had this question: at the committee meeting, was there any mention of piracy in such a context... I mean, whether Poland's side is in any way active, apart from these safeguards, ratifying this convention She will participate in some international action to counter this phenomenon. Because I know that some countries have agreements on this issue and want to take concrete action of some kind, well, police-legal-something like that. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting or not? And if so, what did it look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u136	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u137	Senator, at the committee meeting on 20 November, there were two points. I mean, I asked how wide the phenomenon of piracy is and how widely it affects Polish citizens, and to this Minister Grybarczyk replied that the last such case was the kidnapping of 8 Polish sailors off the coast of Nigeria. And this is the last case in recent years where this convention could, so to speak, apply. And number two... We did not discuss whether and how the Polish government would engage in the fight against piracy. We talked about whether the government would take action to create a situation in which Polish sailors working under foreign flags, e.g. Bermuda, they will be encouraged to abandon this foreign flag and return to the Polish flag. But we didn't talk about how The Polish side will actively engage in the fight against piracy at sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u138	Thank you. There are no more questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for Development, Labour and Technology and the Minister for Infrastructure were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives or government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? [[Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Olga Semeniuk: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If that is possible, then a representative of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology... I would like to make an additional addition to the informational speeches of my previous speakers.]] Minister Olga Semenuk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u139	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would also like to add that the draft ratification proposal has been consulted with representative, within the meaning of the Social Dialogue Council Act, social partners' organisations and has been positively consulted by both committees. So that in addition, I just wanted to add that the social partner, the social side also gave a positive opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u140	Minister, bringing in the sailors or some other... no, that's the kind of situation. Well, it's cost-effective. Tell me, does this convention foresee that these costs are borne by an employer from a country that is party to the convention or by a Polish party because these seafarers are Polish citizens? Who's paying for it? Who's gonna pay for it? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Olga Semenik: Yes?]] [[Voice from the room: 100%...]] To your question...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u141	Good. I was just consulting with the director. They are borne by the employer, but it is possible, if the employer so says, to avoid these costs, to make use of the amendments related to insurance relating to these costs. [[That's when we're the ones who pay for it?]] The insurance itself assumes a carry-on... The insurance company's taking them. [[I see.]] The insurance itself assumes that these costs will be incurred. At this point in time, these amendments themselves do not entail financial costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u142	Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will ask these 2 questions, which I have asked the Senators of the rapporteurs, in a modified form, to the representatives of the government. Maybe first, a question for Minister Lorenzo, who is Deputy Minister of Pick-Up Affairs. I mean whether Poland in any way actively participates in any possible discussions on improving the safety of free shipping in international waters. Because different initiatives appear in this area, at least you can read about them. Second question I do not know if Minister Semeniuk is here. That's the question I asked you to Marshall Kaminski. And what if a sailor, a Polish citizen, is employed on a ship under the so-called. cheap flag and it is a flag registered in a country which, for example, Isn't he a party to this convention? On the basis of this convention, will this Polish sailor... this Polish citizen have any legal protection, or is there only an agreement with this employer and he is dependent only on him on claims relating to any damage to his health or other losses that he suffered as a result of working at sea? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u144	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u145	Poland participates very actively in all activities related to it both within the North Atlantic Pact and within the European Union, especially within NATO, but for obvious reasons I would prefer not to talk about details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u146	Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Olga Semenik: And I, in turn, have a request that the representative of Minister Gróbaryczyk answer this question.]] Is it? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Deputy Director of the Department of Maritime Affairs in the abolished Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping Paweł Krężel: I am. Good morning.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u147	Ladies and gentlemen! About the so-called ones. Cheap flags, as we pointed out in our proposal, more than 90% The global fleet is covered by the MLC Convention and these amendments. Therefore, the situation in which a Polish seafarer would be employed on a ship which is not covered by the MLC and is not covered by these amendments is not in practice present. Polish seafarers are employed on ships which are rather subject to MLC. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u148	Thank you. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for this discussion. For the record, senators Mariusz Gromko, Alexander Szwed and Krzysztof Brejza have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We return to the examination of paragraph 13, which was interrupted: the Act on ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001. I would like the floor of the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, and the report of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! On behalf of the Committee on Culture and Media, I have the honour to present the opinion of the committee on the Act of ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage adopted in Paris on 27 October 2001. I'd like to say that it's so nice that we come to underwater archaeology from the pirates' theme, so we're circling the sea. The sea, as we know, is the source of the wealth of nations At least there used to be a saying. And that is because the sea is a very important area in economic, social and cultural terms. The purpose of the Act is to give its consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Convention on the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage in Paris on 2 November 2001. The explanatory memorandum of the bill states that the purpose of the Convention is to develop and implement legal solutions that would eliminate the risks arising from illegal exploration and exploration of the seabed and oceans. One of the main reasons for the creation of this international agreement was the agreement of the countries with regard to the need for international protection of the underwater cultural heritage in situ. The States agreed that the most appropriate form of protection of this kind of cultural heritage is to ensure that it is protected at the place of its backlog. The need to draw up an international agreement in this regard was also due to the lack of the possibility of ensuring proper protection of underwater cultural heritage by internal legislation, since often the facilities resting on the bottom of the seas and oceans are located in waters excluded from national jurisdiction. Underwater cultural heritage sites located in the Baltic Sea area are also exposed to an increasing number of different types of threats. I think it is worth mentioning here the famous story of the wreckage-cemetery Gustloff, a ship that was sunk in March 1945 by a torpedo launched from a Soviet submarine. There were 10,000 people on this ship, so it's probably the largest cemetery in this submarine form. This shipwreck is subject to strict protection, but there has been a situation where it has been explored without the appropriate consents required. Few of them, the diver who was involved in this operation, were killed, and his colleagues didn't reveal where the accident took place. This diver's body was recently found. Well, the prosecution's proceedings are underway right now. I'm talking about it because this example shows that the problem is important. Currently, cooperation between the Baltic States in the protection of this heritage is carried out within the framework of the activities of the Baltic Sea Council and the Baltic Region Heritage Committee, which Poland is an active member of. The Committee aims to develop a coherent strategy for the management of the Baltic cultural heritage, including the protection of underwater cultural heritage. The adoption of the Convention into the Polish legal order will effectively protect the underwater cultural heritage, mainly outside the territorial sea area. e.g. Gustloff is outside the territorial sea of the Polish state In addition to which the Republic of Poland has only certain sovereign rights. The protection of underwater cultural heritage in the exclusive economic zone and on the continental shelf is a domain of international law and ratification of the Convention is therefore necessary. It will complement the commitments of the Republic of Poland resulting from the international agreements adopted so far. Within the exclusive economic zone and so-called: the area, i.e. a specific international cooperation system has been established in waters outside national jurisdiction, including communication, consultation and coordination on the implementation of safeguard measures. Thanks to ratification of the Convention, the Republic of Poland will be included in a group of countries protecting underwater cultural heritage in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, solidarity and the protection of the common heritage of humanity. The Convention contains provisions which empower States Parties to take any action in accordance with international law aimed at preventing the direct threat of underwater cultural heritage, also located outside the territorial sea. The High Izbo, at its meeting on 24 November, adopted a positive opinion and recommends that the High House adopt this law. Only one senator abstained. During the discussion, particular attention was paid to the issue of... The question was whether the Polish side would also include inland waters under this convention. It's caused the longest discussion, but the case has been cleared up. Of the more than 60 countries that are parties to this convention, only 4 countries, including Ukraine, have included their inland waters, as I recall. Another topic that came up during this discussion was the issue of the branch of the National Maritime Museum in Gdynia in Łeba, which is a branch of the Polish museums, archaeologists and specialists in this area. It will conduct professional underwater research at the bottom of the Baltic Sea. And here's one important piece of information. Well, there is a very rich heritage there. Well, for example. In the vicinity of Łeba one of the sea battles took place during the Polish-Swedish wars. We all know from the history of the olive battle, but also there, in the vicinity of the Elbe, there are remnants of the battle at the bottom of the Baltic. It can be said that the Polish coast, that is, this southern part of the Baltic Sea, is sown with various types of wrecks that come from different historical epochs. Thus, these archaeological studies are very important for the study of the European heritage, the northern heritage of Europe. And from this point of view, the fact that Poland actively participates in all these works is very positive. As I mentioned, the Committee on Culture and Media requests the High Senate to approve the attached draft resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u150	Thank you, Senator. Now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki, to present a report to the committee... [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: She has already spoken before.]] Oh, she already was, right? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Okay, I'm sorry. Now the senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the senators of the rapporteurs. Mr. Senator Jackowski? [[Voice from the hall: No, Alexander... He's written...]] Oh, right. I thought Senator Jackowski wanted to ask himself a question. [[No, no, Mr. Marshal, I don't think that's possible.]] Okay, I'm sorry. But it's possible by the book, there's no ban. [[Oh, I'll try that in the future.]] Senator Alexander Swed is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u151	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator Jackowski. What can be done by countries, measures that prevent the immediate threat of underwater heritage after ratification? [[Answer?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u152	There you go. Yes, yes, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u153	Mr. Senator, there was no detailed discussion on this at the cultural committee meeting. Perhaps such a discussion was at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee, but I did not attend this meeting. These actions, which are the result of the Convention, are primarily of a legal administrative nature, as it clarifies the principles of international cooperation in this area. And as far as the details are concerned, I suggest we redirect this question to government representatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u154	Thank you. And Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u155	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I would like to ask what criteria or conditions a given archaeological object must fulfil to be covered by this convention. Is this any particular historical significance for a particular country, or must it be an exceptional global significance? Any such indications, please indicate. Are there such indications, or are there provisions in the Convention on this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. I will tell you in general, and I think that Minister Gawin, who in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage oversees the area of heritage protection in the field of material monuments, will answer you very precisely this question. Well, on the Polish coast there are objects which are from the early medieval times, and maybe even earlier, objects from practically all historical epochs, i.e. the Middle Ages, the modern epoch, the 18th, the 19th, the 20th century. For obvious reasons, the most important are the facilities from the 20th century, because at that time there were the largest military activities that took place in the Baltic Sea basin. Everything that's been going on in this period is just creating an inheritance right now. As regards the details of how it is classified, which is specifically considered to be this object, there was no discussion on this at our committee meeting, so I do not want to be a minister now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u157	Thank you very much. There are no further questions for you... [[Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.]] Oh, no, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski still has a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u158	I wouldn't ask that question if the senator represented only himself, but represents the committee of culture and is probably misleading the High Senate. I want to make it clear that we have a definition of a monument, a monument that is protected by this convention. There it is clearly stated that it must be underwater for a minimum of 100 years; this is one of the elements. So the example mentioned at the very beginning Gustloff does not enter the underwater heritage area covered by this Convention. However, I would like to ask the senator if he is aware of this and if he would be willing to correct his statement. Otherwise, we will remain wrong.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u159	Thank you very much for this addition. Mr. Senator, I was talking about a certain general heritage that is located in the Baltic Sea basin. And I said right away that as far as the details of what is covered by this convention are concerned, I suggest you redirect this question to Minister Gawin. I stated the general fact that this heritage is very rich and applies to monuments at least from the early medieval period, and perhaps earlier, to modern times. And what's qualified here is a separate subject. I gave an example of this tragedy of the ship Gustloff, as an example not so much... Here Minister Zdrojewski is clearly right that it is not subject to the convention, I am talking about the wreckage of the ship Gustloff. I gave this as a drastic example of what situations might arise. In that sense, I used this example. I hope these explanations are the answer to the senator's questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u160	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u161	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have another question: was the committee meeting talking about how long will the Director of the Maritime Office be obliged to withdraw from the sale of these facilities and how long will it be time for them to be handed over to the Provincial Monument Preserver? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u162	Thank you very much, senator. We did not discuss such specific issues at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, so detailed matters were not addressed, so I would also suggest that we redirect this question to Minister Gawin.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u163	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Culture, National Heritage and Sport were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? Minister Gawin? No. In that case, the senators will report no more than a minute's duration to the government's representatives on this item on the agenda. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski volunteered. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u164	Yes. Thank you very much. I made one correction earlier, so it will no longer be the subject of the question. This is another convention. We have a total of 5 conventions adopted after 1945, let me remind you about armed conflicts, heritage in the area of armed conflicts, illegal carriage, natural heritage, intangible and underwater heritage. But there is one more convention that has not been ratified by Poland, and it concerns a very important issue. The protection of the urban landscape. As I recall, she's from 2011. What stage is she at? This is the area of responsibility and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Ministry of Culture. That's the first question. The second question concerns the degree of preparation for the implementation of this Convention. Let me remind you that this is about five legal acts, including, among others, five legal acts. about the protection of monuments and the care of monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u165	Thank you. It's for Minister Gawin, I understand. There you go, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Can I answer from the seat?]] Yes, you can answer from your seat.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u166	First line. Indeed, all the artifacts in the Baltic Sea, in order to find themselves, so to speak, protected to be subject to this convention, must be more than 100 years old. This is the very important principle introduced by the Convention. I believe that the senator has rightly signalled a number of problems that relate to this underwater heritage, because wreckages from the period of World War II, not only ships, but also aircraft, are a common issue, I would say, a problem for Europe and even wider. So we should keep that in mind. There were questions about where we are in preparation for the revision of the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments and other Acts in connection with the adoption of the Convention. I would like to stress once again: the Convention was established in 2001 and the Republic of Poland was one of the most active countries in its creation, which made national laws enter into force much earlier before we ratified the Convention. The spirit of the Convention is already given in various laws, including the 2001 Maritime Code and the 2003 Monument Protection and Monument Care Act. Let us remember that here the law... that we have implemented the provisions of the Convention more quickly in our national law than we have ratified the Convention. Why is this important? Because it doesn't make us need to update anything quickly, violently, immediately. I would also like to remind everyone that it is precisely because the spirit of this convention has been given in national law, both the recording and the issuing of permits are being carried out today by the relevant institutions. Registration and issue of licences shall be the responsibility of the Head of the Maritime Authority. Of course, I can say that, as part of the development of cooperation with other countries in the Baltic Sea region, i.e. as if the development of conventions, there will be a need to amend legislation, but these amendments need not be immediate. We can carry out these amendments calmly. As for the question asked by Minister Zdrojewski regarding the protection of the urban landscape, I would like to answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Alexander Swed is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u168	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Minister, The ratification of the Convention is absolutely necessary and we fully support it. I would like to direct to you the questions I have asked the rapporteur, Senator Jackowski. Maybe I'll do it again. First. What measures can be taken by countries that prevent the immediate threat of underwater heritage? Here I would also like to ask what the responsibilities of the countries in terms of cooperation and exchange of information will be. Second question. At what time will the Director of the Maritime Office be obliged to withdraw from the sale of facilities, and how long will it be in force when they are handed over to the voivodship conservator of monuments? If you can, please answer now, and if these questions contain too detailed information, I will possibly ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u169	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u170	I would like to take advantage of this privilege and give detailed written answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u171	You're done, aren't you? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Yes.]] Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There are two areas. One is the territorial sea and the other is the exclusive economic zone. I understand that the convention does not affect our rights in the territorial sea. If that's not the case, I need you to get me out of this mess. So just as we could do everything in our territorial sea, so on we can do anything. But it affects our rights. Or maybe it doesn't. In the exclusive economic zone. And now: does this convention strengthen our rights, or weaken them? In other words... Perhaps it has been so far that within the exclusive economic zone we had the full right to manage monuments, well, some ship, let's assume that medieval times, and now, because there is this international convention, we kind of share this monument, which means we are obliged to ensure that others can explore it, and in return we will be able to explore other monuments in other economic zones of other countries. But we have these monuments a lot... [[Mr. Senator...]] It doesn't pay much. [[One minute...]] It's been a minute. The question is very simple.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u173	You asked me a question. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u174	Dear Senator, I would like to explain that everything we find in the sea belongs to the Treasury, so here we are not even talking about getting rid of the property of these objects in any way. In addition, please note that the convention makes it very clear that these archaeological objects and all other objects should be left in situ, i.e. leave in place. So we don't just extract them, we leave them where they are, with the idea that we have to leave something for future generations. These fears are completely unfounded, fears that we are losing some part, I do not know, power over these things, that we are giving it up to third countries. Of course, it's not. But I would also like to point out that I believe that this convention is so necessary that it very much harmonises the conduct with the artifacts found in the sea within the Baltic Sea basin. And that's what we need, we just need good cooperation with the countries of the Baltic Sea region, we need both a uniform policy on dealing with these artifacts, and a common policy on how to stop illegal exploration, to stop the abuse of these monuments and to stop trade.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u175	Thank you. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you one question, 'cause there's some anxiety here...]] Very briefly, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u176	Very briefly. Minister, I understand that you said this about a special economic zone, the territorial sea is left as if it were obvious. But does it also impose certain obligations on us, e.g. That we'd have to, I don't know, ask other people or consult on the possibility of exposing what we'd find in a special economic zone? You said it's supposed to stay where it is, in situ... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Yes.]] Now we're going to have to do some extra work to, for example. could it be excavated and seen in the museum in Gdansk?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u177	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u178	I don't see any threats in this area. The Convention, of course, provides for consultation, cooperation, but under completely voluntary conditions, that is, we will not have to ask a third party whether we can extract something or not. It simply obliges us to pursue such a coherent policy... We can compare that to... We also have a coherent conservation policy in the area of the Republic of Poland, and in fact this conservation policy is very similar in European countries, which are associated with UNESCO and other organisations, ICOMOS, ICROM. So this is more about harmonising policies, consulting rather than restricting someone's power, so I would say. There are no indications here that you've mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u179	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Bogdan Zdrojewski, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u180	Question to the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Minister rightly said that we were very involved in this convention in Paris in 2001. Why such a delay in ratification? But I will also address the Minister because I want to make some substantial correction. Well, the Minister said that this convention concerns objects that are 100 years old, more than 100 years old. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Magdalena Gawin: Yes.]] That is not the case. I know at least 2 Arab countries that have sunk around a hundred years old ships and they will not be covered by this convention, because the definition of this convention makes it clear that it is not about objects that are more than 100 years old, but about objects that remain under water at least 100 years old. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u181	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister of Foreign Affairs. There was a question addressed to you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u182	I would point out that, first of all, there is no date for ratification. Let us also remember that this requires procedures for ratification not only by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but also by the leading ministry, in this case the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u183	Thank you very much. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. [[Mr. Marshal, you didn't finish the procedure because you didn't give the Minister of Culture a chance to answer. I'll see...]] Well, that question was... [[The second question was also to the Minister of Culture.]] Yeah, but that was basically a corrigendum, not a question. [[Yes, sir.]] There you go, take it... perform now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u184	Thank you very much. Very briefly. Well, I would like to point out that this is an extremely important convention, a convention that has been worked on for an incredibly long time, because over two decades. We finally have a defined underwater heritage. This definition is extremely important, because it includes a reminder of not 100-year-old objects, only objects that spend more than 100 years underwater meet certain criteria. This is worth paying attention to. It is also important that in this procedure, which was then launched, there was a request for initiatives on the next Convention on Urban Landscape of 2011. I will also draw the attention of the Minister, the Minister who represents the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the fact that we are one of the last countries ratifying this Convention. Panama was the first to do so, then Croatia, Bulgaria, and it was already in 2013. Poland does not ratify until today. I draw attention to this because in the area of national heritage, cultural heritage should be among leaders rather than outsiders. That's it. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u185	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... [[Voice from the room: Yet: they will be written...]] Oh, good, yeah. I would like to inform you that the Minister has undertaken to reply in writing to Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's question. For the record, senators Mieczysław Golba, Aleksander Szwed, Krzysztof Brejza and Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka have made their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We're about to move on to item twenty-nine of the agenda, but I'm now announcing a two-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 58 to 12 minutes 02]] We proceed with the examination of point twenty-nine... Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please take your seats. We proceed with the examination of item twenty-nine of the agenda: the Minister of Interior and Administration's information on police actions towards participants and participants in protests after the announcement of the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal. I would like to welcome the representatives of the institutions present at the meeting, including Mr Adam Bodnar, ombudsman and protester, Mrs Katarzyna Augustynek. Would Mr Adam Bodnar, ombudsman of civil rights, like to speak on this matter? [[Ombudsman Adam Bodnar: Yes, I would like to, but I have the impression that in a later phase. Is that so?]] [[Voice from the hall: No, because there is no representative of the Ministry.]] No, please, now. There's no representative of the Ministry. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u186	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to thank you very warmly for inviting the Ombudsman to present his position in the context of clarifying the events relating to police activities at the assembly after the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October 2020. I believe that this issue is extremely important from the point of view of citizens' exercise of freedom of assembly. This is one of those topics that is of key importance to the Ombudsman's Office. We are dealing with this issue in three dimensions, which I will talk about. The regulatory dimension of whether the rules correspond to constitutional standards; the intervention dimension of monitoring the extent to which constitutional standards are respected and the applicable law in the context of police intervention; and the third dimension The dimension of what is happening in detention rooms at police stations, which are monitored on an ongoing basis by employees of the national mechanism for prevention of torture, inhuman and degrading treatment, which operates in the Ombudsman's office and is supervised by Dr. Hanna Machinska, my deputy, who is also present today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my analysis by considering, because it seems to me that this is important, on regulatory issues. I am of the opinion that, due to the state of the epidemic, the exercise of freedom to organise peaceful assembly can, of course, be limited, but this should be done in accordance with constitutional rules, i.e. it should be done by law, and restrictions should be proportionate to the objective pursued, and restrictions must not affect the essence of the assembly. However, all these limitations that we are observing are, in fact, based only on the provision of the Article. 46 of the 2008 law on infectious diseases. According to this provision, a regulation may prohibit the organisation of spectacles and other gatherings. This provision raises serious constitutional doubts It was adopted in a completely different time, but above all, it shows how far interference in the freedom of assembly can go, because this provision gives a de facto basis for regulating the scope of the exercise of freedom of assembly through the regulation. If we were to follow events from the beginning of the pandemic, from the beginning of the epidemic to today, it would appear that we actually have at least 4 legal regimes, and perhaps another one that I did not notice. Certainly at the beginning we had a total ban on assembly; then there was a reduction in the number of assemblies of up to 250 people and the requirement to keep the distance between participants and masks, as well as supervision by health care workers; later, it could be said that this was the second wave of pandemic, it was a reduction in the number of assemblies of up to 10 people; and now we have a reduction in the number of assemblies of up to 5 people. Why is this important? First of all, the rules so designed cause a state of concern on the part of citizens who, through their participation in the assemblies, wish to mark their citizens' voice, express their citizens' opposition and expose themselves to violations of the law; secondly, they give the police grounds for arbitrary application of the law. Depending on the situation, the police can either react decisively or turn a blind eye to the conventions held during the pandemic. And this state of legal uncertainty is extremely dangerous, as it exposes citizens to the operation of the entire state apparatus and at the same time deprives them of their ability to enjoy natural, inalienable constitutional rights, rights that are the salt of democracy, rights that citizens enjoy, which I would like to stress, without greater restrictions since 1989. So, at this stage, we have very little confidence in the sense of these legislative restrictions, and there is even regulatory and informational chaos. This regulatory problem translates into police conduct. Even if we considered that certain assemblies were held in a way that was not in accordance with the rules, human rights standards, in particular OSCE standards on freedom of peaceful assembly, indicated how authorities should proceed. There is one principle: if the assembly is peaceful and perhaps fails to comply with certain regulatory requirements, any action aimed at resolving it should also be peaceful, focused on dialogue, cooperation with organisers, conversation, persuasion, and perhaps indicating that special care should be taken about health issues. Because in my opinion this is exactly the dimension of democracy, how we approach this kind of situation, whether in the spirit of freedom of assembly and respect for it, or on the contrary. Police activities should aim to ensure the safe conduct of spontaneous gatherings rather than to repress them. However, the experiences of the last few months indicate that this may be different. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the second dimension I would like to say is the dimension which is, by all means, the consequence of these problems and regulatory confusions, namely the intervention, speeches and actions taken by the Ombudsman. I would like to stress that today's meeting is of course devoted to the subject of what is happening after 22 October this year, but let us remember that from the very beginning of the pandemic we have different problems with the exercise of freedom of assembly and we must take these facts into account when assessing the events of recent weeks. Namely, I would specify a few such special moments when the subject of freedom of assembly became important in the public debate, precisely because of state intervention. Firstly, these were demonstrations and various civil action related to the presidential elections which did not take place on 10 May 2020. It goes on for example. on the identification and punishment of participants in the civic action by financial penalties. Secondly, during a certain period there were demonstrations that we could call an entrepreneurial strike. They were held on May 8, 16 and 23. There were also solidarity demonstrations following Margot's arrest, including in particular the evening events of 7 August 2020, as well as demonstrations and other events after the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal of 22 October this year. We should also remember what happened in the context of the Independence March on 11 November. I think that if we look at this issue as a whole, we will be able to see some phenomena and draw specific conclusions on police behaviour. What I think has been visible over these months This is also due to the complaints under consideration, the observation and other actions of the ombudsman is an increase in police action. This intensity is based on the continuous legitimacy of people who either participate in or only go to the demonstration, including the legitimacy and detention of people who... I'd like to remind you of the famous detention. It was on the A2 motorway of the Workers' Initiative. It is also a matter of regular referral to health care. We could see this especially in the context of the strike of entrepreneurs and these demonstrations from March and April, but this practice still appears. I've been getting signals lately, for example. of Jaworzna, that the police continue to make such notifications. There are also arrests. I would like to stress that 96 people have been detained since 22 October. If we were to add to that those who were still detained in the context of the Independence March, it would be 132 people in total. The record record, absolutely record, was 16 May 2020, when 386 people were detained during the demonstration or strike of entrepreneurs. This increase is also based on, I would call it, unequal treatment depending on what the demonstration is about, or finally taking action against teenagers. I would remind here the story of a 14-year-old girl from Olsztyn, where the court was informed of her alleged demoralization. Recently, there's been talk of another 14-year-old, Mr. M. of K. Here we know that the court has decided that it will not deal with this case at all. Recently it was also loud about the 17-year-old J.R. case, which was arrested almost 24 hours a day. In the context of the Women's Strike, this relationship between police and citizens has changed during the protests. At first, it was clearly visible. In addition to the events of October 22 and 23, In a sense, the police understand the freedom to organise peaceful assembly at this difficult time. The strategy changed in principle on 9 November. Then it appeared in the press that a document was adopted, the content of which was reduced to the password we act, we do not negotiate. Since then, you can see that the police are working towards solving any demonstrations. One of the manifestations of this strategy is, for example, the creation of the so-called. boilers. Boilers as such are acceptable in police practice, but only as a means of isolating aggressive or lawbreakers. This must not lead to disproportionate restrictions on the rights of others. It follows from the caselaw of the European Court of Human Rights that the detention of participants in peaceful manifestation in a boiler may affect the rights of those persons to freedom and freedom of movement. I would also add that the Omega Research Foundation's research shows that, from the point of view of the current epidemic, locking people in a boiler can lead to the spread of the virus, increasing the risk of transmission. In the context of closing people in a boiler, the question arises whether it is really about ending the demonstration, or whether it is about catching, stopping and identifying as many people as possible in order to initiate infringement proceedings against them or referring applications to the health care centre and thus achieving the so-called. freezing effect. The mere fact of writing, not to mention even the application to the health centre for punishment, makes it possible for citizens to refrain from making a decision to use peaceful assembly. The question therefore arises as to whether this is a tactic aimed at quieting the protests or strangling them in the bud. The second way the police act, as we see in the Ombudsman's activities, is a procedure that I would call indirect imprisonment. The police regularly take the detained to remote precincts, e.g. to Piaseczna, Legionów, Grodziska Mazowiecki, Ostrołęki or Pułtuska. The reason for such action, which is presented as official, is the lack of space in Warsaw PDOS. Such practice should be thoroughly investigated. In this way he was treated e.g. Mr Paweł Rutkiewicz, who was detained during one of the business strikes; he was deported to Wołomin. This type of practice raises doubts for 2 reasons. First of all, the question is whether there is a breach of personal freedom and freedom of movement. If someone has been detained in Warsaw, it should rather expect that also in Warsaw he will be released, not e.g. in Grodzisk Mazowiecki. Secondly, this may constitute, as lawyers point out, a form of indirect restriction on access to lawyers. Before the lawyer finds out where the person is, and by the time Grodzisk, Legionov or Ostrołęki gets to it, it'll be a while. I would also like to draw attention to this practice. The next thing we see in the Ombudsman's office is the excessive application of direct coercion measures, and I would say escalation in the application of such coercive measures. I remember very carefully the day of 27 July 2018 when one of the demonstrations was held in defence of the courts in Kraków Przedmieście in Warsaw. That's when the tear gas was used. We have all discussed this issue for the next three days, and now, in 2020, in fact, it is on the agenda that tear gas is being used. Another thing. The use of police batons. I remember that after the demonstration on 16 May this year, after one of the strikes of entrepreneurs, there was a whole discussion about whether the police used sticks or not. The police said at first that she didn't use it, and then there were pictures that showed that these batons were still being used. Interestingly, they were tonfa sticks, i.e. batons having a completely different design than telescopic batons, which in turn were used during the demonstration on 18 November this year. Another thing that could point to this escalation is the failure to comply with police rules in the context of the interventions being undertaken. I mean, the cops in civilian clothes were using direct coercion. The same is not unacceptable in itself, but, since it is acceptable, it should be preceded by an action of warning, identification, representation. There was a natural fear from demonstrators, whether they were actually cops, or perhaps someone who was just an assailant, from whom to defend themselves. This is absolutely unacceptable from the point of view of human rights standards. Another reason why I am talking about this escalation is the regular use of the so-called. Boilers, as I've already said. I would also draw attention to the approach to protected groups. We have basically 2 groups that should be particularly protected. The first ones are journalists. Journalists do their job, journalists have responsibility, they have a duty to the public to inform about what is important and what is important. Therefore, journalists should not be harassed, used direct coercion measures against them, and even more so should be stopped. However, in many cases this type of action has taken place. This week We saw Ms. Agata Grzybowska's arrest, a photojournalist from the Polish newspaper, but there are also other names... [[From the Gazeta Wyborcza...]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Other names: Mr Wojciech Wójtowicz, editor Renata Kim or Mr Tomasz Gutra, who became the victim of the use of smooth-bore weapons, from the Tygodnik Solidarnosc. The question is, what do we do about it? Such conduct should absolutely not be allowed. Perhaps it would be worth considering creating an agreement between the police and journalistic associations, for example. how to increase the recognition of both sides. However, even in the case of Agata Grzybowska's editor, we saw photographs on which she showed her business card. The same was true of your editor Paweł Rutkiewicz, whom I mentioned earlier, and this did not change the attitude of the police. The second group shall be protected by parliamentarians. Dear Members, I recall the various interventions that the Ombudsman took in the years 2015 to 2019, and I do not remember ever having intervened in defence or asking for the rights of parliamentarians in the context of their immunity. And in 2020 we have already explained such cases and there have been discussions about them. It was about Senator Jan Bure in the context of the strike of entrepreneurs. Following the events in Katowice, there has been a worrying situation concerning Mr Maciej Kopc. There was the use of tear gas against Magdalena Beyat's messenger, and the use of violence against Marshal Vladimir Charzasty... And that's a terribly serious thing, because parliamentarians represent the entire nation, so they have immunity to protect them. And immunity also guarantees not to take direct coercion measures against them. Another issue is the information policy of the police and the politicians responsible for it. We have met with the voice many times, that all the police do is professional, efficient, decent, that there is full confidence in police activities. What is more, I would like to quote the words of the Police Commissioner, Mr Ciarka, who pointed out how politicians should behave: "If Members had not been cowardly behind immunity, they would have been treated as well as protesters." It seems to me that such words are absolutely unacceptable, and their consequence may be to build a sense of irresponsibleness among police officers who may be guilty of various violations. Finally, I would like to point out that in the police, in my opinion, there is no process of drawing conclusions from earlier infringements confirmed by the court. Well, on November 5th, I received a letter from the Chief of Police Paweł Dobrodziej, concerning the statistics of the complaint of detention by the courts. In 79 cases, the courts found detention either unfounded or illegal or incorrect. Most were cases where detentions were considered unfounded. Unreasonable means that the court examines whether police action was proportionate. In the context of detentions related to demonstrations, it usually comes down to assessing whether it was enough to write a person down or whether it was necessary to take her to the police station. In so many cases, the courts found that these detentions were unfounded. But there were other cases that were in the meantime lost by the police in terms of arrests. But I have the impression that the police don't learn from these behaviors, they don't train, they don't change their practice. He still claims to be operating within the law despite losing cases before the courts. Therefore, as a spokesman, I will ask whether disciplinary proceedings are being initiated against officers if, in the context of their behaviour, the court has found an infringement of the law. Let us also bear in mind that these cases may give rise to the potential liability of the State Treasury. There are also errors in the legal classification. I believe, for example, that the actions of the officers towards the participants of the spontaneous assembly at night from 22 to 23 October - namely the legitimacy, detention, the imposition of mandates in connection with the infringement of Article. 54 of the Code of Offences De facto, they were illegal because we are not dealing with a breach of order, but with a different nature. I have recently addressed a speech on this subject. Dear Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, dear Members, there are a lot of different manifestations of police crossing the border. The Ombudsman takes action all the time and tries to clarify these matters. But I would add a third dimension to that, which maybe sometimes escapes public attention. Because what the public gets acquainted with is what is recorded, what we hear, what we watch on TV or what we get from the involvement of reporters and journalists. But there is also a space that is often unavailable to ordinary citizens' eyes, namely the space for people detained in police stations. And from 23 October to 23 November, representatives of the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, an organisational unit operating in the Ombudsman's office, which monitors the respect of human rights in various places of imprisonment, carried out a total of 24 visits ad I'm sorry, My deputy, Dr. Hanna Machinska, has also taken part in the visits personally. A total of 60 interviews were conducted. And I would like to stress that these talks were about all those detained, because for us, every person is important, regardless of what protest these people took part in. For us, it is simply important whether the fundamental rights in the context of police operations at police stations are respected. At the time mentioned here, according to our records, the police detained a total of 96 people in the context of the protests related to the Court's judgment, with the ruling of the Court of 22 October. And as for the Independence March, that's when 36 people were arrested. I would like to make a few very basic conclusions that arise from these detentions. These reports that we are preparing are extremely comprehensive, so maybe I'll talk about some of the most important issues. We know, for example, that many people who have been detained have complained that gas has been applied to them. One of the prisoners claimed, for example, that he was first knocked down by policemen and then sprayed out the gas. One of the men detained in the context of the protests on October 26 had numerous signs of injury on his body, he was in very poor hygiene and mental condition. He informed about the assault by police officers in the squad car. The man was also to be insulted because of his sexual orientation, he was denied contact with a legal counsel and was not informed of the arrest of the designated third party. A person detained with epilepsy during transport by a police car had a dyspnoea attack, and police officers, in her opinion, underestimated it, commented and laughed at it. One of the prisoners was to be kicked in the face by an officer while he was handcuffed on the ground. Another claimed that he was pushed too hard on the ground, said that the cops kicked him in the stomach and several times in the crotch. People also complained about food issues and the fact that it appears in practically all descriptions In most cases, handcuffs or plastic bands were used in the rear, which was not always necessary and necessary. Policemen questioned the detained, why they went to protests, gave their opinions on the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal. But at the same time, I would really like to emphasise So that we can be clear here. That in many cases the detained emphasized the professional and even kind attitude of the officers. Those officers who were serving in detention rooms were particularly well judged. Another Problem That Appears And here are the different signals of. is related to access to legal assistance from the beginning of detention. Lawyers didn't always have access to people who were detained. But there were also various procedural problems, e.g. one detained said that she had been informed that she could benefit from the assistance of a lawyer if she had previously given him a written mandate. Well, it's not a standard that's required, because it's just that every person in custody should have access to a lawyer. There could also be problems related to the right to inform a third party of the arrest. In most cases, the detained may have informed the selected third party of the arrest, but this authority was exercised by the officers and often these officers, even after they had called the family member, did not inform them later whether they were able to communicate this information effectively. There were also various problems with access to the medical examination. People were asked about their medical condition and injuries, but none of them were informed of the possibility of having a medical examination on request and this information should be given. I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in most cases, the detained officers did not legitimise themselves and, as a rule, those detained were not instructed about their oral cultivations. They were given only to sign a written instruction, and we can guess that in a situation of great stress, learning about such instruction may not be enough. In addition, the detained learned about the command they were taken to only after they arrived. There are much more indications and recommendations regarding the accuracy of the documentation drawn up and the actual actual exercise of rights. I have tried to signal here the most common and most important problems, because these issues affect how they felt and how their rights were respected. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! In conclusion, I would like to highlight and highlight the merits of those who have really tried to help citizens in these difficult times. There is a great role here in the role of a lawyer who constantly provides and coordinates pro bono assistance for people detained. In my opinion, there is a very important role for Members who exercise their powers and thus try to protect demonstrators. I would also like to appreciate the role of judges who realise how powerful they are in recognising complaints about detention and assessing whether these detentions were legitimate, correct and legal. However, in my opinion, what has happened and what is still happening in the streets of Polish cities, I would like to stress that not since 22 October, because this has also happened before, must cause the greatest concern. I would like to assure you that I have a great deal of respect for the actions of the police and police officers, and I have repeatedly defended the rights of police officers who have been wronged in various ways. I am extremely grateful for the recent award that I received from an independent police union, because it is, I think, to appreciate the role of a spokesperson defending the rights of officers. But I feel like things have gone too far. During today's meeting, we are talking about demonstrations, and we are hearing about abuses, such as. the use of torture in police stations. We all know the Igor Stachowiak case. Literally yesterday the trial began in Olsztyn. Officers from Siedlce have recently been convicted. Moreover, the police are very critically judged by bodies such as the Committee on Torture Prevention and the inhuman and degrading treatment of the Council of Europe, the CPT. The CPT recently issued a police report. That is why I believe that today's debate should be an introduction to explanatory action and perhaps a revision of legislation. Art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Police Act states that police officers are obliged to respect human dignity and respect and protect human rights in the course of the performance of their duties, and that they refer to the obligation to observe the law and fidelity of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. But the question is, is that enough? I think the Senate could take a legislative initiative It could be called the Human Rights Law in Police Operations It would highlight the importance of these most basic constitutional standards in the operation of officers. In my opinion, it would give space to organise a public hearing to work on such a law. I think that many citizens would like to talk about their stories, and I think that many citizens would like to complain about how they were treated or how they feel treated in the face of a collision with the power of the power apparatus that the police personify. But I also think there are a lot of cops who would like to serve in a community-trusted formation comparable with trust in the fire department or the army. Unfortunately, they haven't had a chance lately, because for various reasons, part of the public trust has been lost by the police. I am of the opinion that work, such as serious work, on this type of law and on how the police can be strengthened in the context of a genuine attitude towards respect for human rights in their activities and going beyond the norm of Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The 3th Police Act would be an important position for the whole society, it would be a signal that these matters are treated with the highest seriousness of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. Mr Mariusz Kaminski, Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration of the Senate, was invited to this meeting today. In a letter dated 25 November 2020, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration informed the Speaker of the Senate that, due to numerous seym duties, including the meeting of the Sejm, he was unable to attend the eighteenth Senate meeting on 25 and 27 November. Please take the floor, Senator Bogdan Klich. I would like to inform you that in the course of Senator Bogdan Klich's speech, there will be films that will show police action during recent protests. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Indeed, at the initiative of the Civic Coalition Club, we asked the Marshal to put this item on the agenda of this Senate meeting. We are glad that he found himself, but we are sad that the Minister of the Interior has lost himself, because he should be in this Chamber and answer numerous questions that are pressing not only to us parliamentarians, but especially to Poles and Poles, who see how the nature of the Polish Police is changing. There should also be a chief or his representative in the courtroom, because he is the chief responsible for the operation of this service. Many of us, Members and Senators, participate in demonstrations, mostly as observers, who serve all those who are being repressed for participating in peaceful speeches, in peaceful demonstrations. There are more and more of us because there are more and more of these repressions. We are helping more and more because more and more people need this help. But first of all, we ask ourselves, just as we are sitting here, also in the Parliament hall: what happened to the Polish Police? What happened in the police that started to fear the stronger and attack the weaker? What happened on November 11th is that the police are more passive, and a week later More active? What is it that happens that the police are losing credibility, which has been so laboriously built over the past 30 years and has distinguished it from the Civic Militia of the old ungrateful times of the commune? What finally happens to the Polish Police that it ceases to be a tool to protect citizens from criminals and becomes an instrument in the hands of power, to protect the interests of this authority? Me, ladies and gentlemen. Okay, just so we're clear. I do not want to say that this concerns the entire police force, all units, and I do not want to say that it concerns all officers. What I'm trying to say is that because of some units, some chiefs, some officers, the police are losing the credibility I was talking about earlier. In order to illustrate these matters, it is enough to compare three events. The first one took place on 11 November this year. Television Poland invited to the illegal Independence March, issuing the statement of its organizer, Mr Bąkiewicz, the head of the Association of Independence March, that now it will only be a journey of cars. In addition to the cars in which the participants were present, protestors gathered in the streets of Warsaw in a number of hundreds. Several hundred people went out on the streets of Warsaw and did one huge battlefield in Warsaw. After all, policemen were attacked, races were thrown, bang firecrackers, bottles, trees were broken, and finally private apartments were set on fire, just like this famous arson balcony. The bridge under the Poniatowski Bridge was destroyed. And all this on the anniversary of regaining independence in a place in the city that was so dramatically experienced by Nazi invaders This is where the Nazis organized an aggressive demonstration march. In fact, some of the participants in this demonstration were militants. What did the police do? The police were basically counting their losses. Thirty-five cops went to the hospital, three of them were in a tough state. Only 36 people have been detained, so many have been charged, and only 100 have been identified without charges and without mandates. A week later, on November 18th, in a peaceful demonstration, where no one threw firecrackers at anyone, where no tools were drawn against anybody, which meant manifesting their views, 497 people were identified, 320 applications were sent to court, 297 cases were sent to the health centre. That's what we get. People were not only beaten by civil policemen, which brings to mind the shameful events of the past, but were also locked in a boiler, at least twice the demonstration was broken in an active way. And it's not just a matter of tactics, it's a matter of strategy. Such a strategy began to be applied to peaceful demonstrators in order to break down peaceful demonstrations. And as you rightly said, peaceful demonstrations should, however, be completed peacefully. Polish police should intervene with force when demonstrations are not peaceful. And that's why, to illustrate this difference, Mrs. Marshal, as a club, we have prepared a few films that show these most dramatic moments of recent days. And I would very much ask you to present first two of them, showing how anti-terrorists act against peaceful demonstrators, even though their strength should be used only for those who pose the greatest threat to the state. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please recreate.]] [[Movie projection]] We see one of the messengers, Mrs Magda Beyat, getting gas in his eyes from an ununited officer. You're welcome. [[Movie projection]] We also wanted to remind you how the citizen who participated in this peaceful demonstration was treated, who stood in front of the cordon of policemen with cardboard for about an hour, not with abusive inscriptions. You're welcome. [[Movie projection]] Not only women, but also men were dragged out of the crowd in a brutal way. You're welcome. [[Movie projection]] A day later, events took place before the District Court in Warsaw, which were known and can be confirmed by Mrs Walej, Ms Scheuring-Wielgus, Mr Zielińska and Mr Jachira, because it shows how peaceful protests by a small group of people can be brutally pacified by the police. Those involved in this protest suffered injuries. You're welcome. [[Movie projection]] And finally the events of the last Monday, this week. I have observed them personally with my fellow Members. These events began with demonstrations under the seat of the Ministry of National Education, where among others. a journalist, Mrs Grzybowska, has been detained. You're welcome. [[Movie projection]] Thank you very much. These are events that clearly indicate that another professional group, or journalists, is being attacked. The idea is to stop their activity in reporting what is happening on the streets of Polish cities. Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's all fasten our seat belts, because we are about to show an interview with Mr. A. K., who after a few days of trauma decided to tell him about what happened to him. I will ask your ombudsman to interpret the behaviour of the police, if it is true. I think so. What Mr. A.K. says. [[Movie projection]] Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, our Civic Coalition Club will be looking forward to an explanation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u189	Thank you very much, Senator. We have guests at the Senate meeting today. Katarzyna Augustynek is with us, whom I very much welcome, as well as we have guests from the Sejm, Members, whom I also warmly welcome. We'll allow our guests to speak. At this point, I would like to ask Katarzyna Augustynek, a protest participant, if she would like to take the floor on this matter. You're welcome, you're welcome... From the point of view, I'd like that very much. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u190	Good morning. Thank you for inviting me. I'm a gray sidewalk bug, and I don't know what I could say more than what those movies were showing. Anyway, I have some, mostly very sad, experience with the police. I've been on the street for almost five years. On 3 December 2015, I went for the first time to protest, to the Constitutional Tribunal, and so I was constantly at the protests until now. The increase in police activity occurred this year when we set out on the streets after the first wave of pandemics and said goodbye to Professor Gersdorf. Then began these first bizarre writings, for no reason at all, as unjustified, and their consequences in the form of mandates of PLN 20.500, of course the mandates of the famous health resort. Since these actions have been and are still, in my humble opinion, illegal, many of these mandates are being remitted, but they block the actions of the courts, which are now severely overloaded. These police activities are not justified at all. Later, in the spring, in the summer, the police became more violent. I cannot agree with the view that the Police en block should be viewed as a formation that follows orders. Single cops... Of course, I've known decent people for 5 years I've been on the street, so it's hard not to know the ones with a little higher charge, because police stations often change. But I've been very disappointed in some of them. Since October 22, the police have just gone crazy. In a completely legal and factual manner, he is stalking us. And it's not even about me anymore, the streetgirl with experience, not only the five-year-old, but also the eighties, but it's about those young people who are effectively trying to discourage them from asking for their rights, both girls, young women to ask for their right to abortion, as well as others to ask for all civil rights at the moment. The police, in my humble opinion, act absolutely contrary to the Polish constitution and to the Convention on Human Rights and the Citizens. In fact, the constitution could find most of the articles that concern our situation on the street. I don't know what a cop is... or a cop, maybe a cop. We meet specific people on the street, both police officers and police officers. I always try to talk to them, I treat them like people, even though it's not well seen in my environment. I'm trying to convince them to stop intimidating us, stalking us, punishing us, not to mention beating us, of course. I always invoke the constitution and the law on the police, which I necessarily know decently about, of course, without results. And as a result of these actions In fact, I can only talk about my experiences, I don't want to speak on behalf of other streetmen. I've been treated nastyly. Thank God, not like Adam. And I don't suppose I owe it to my age and gender, because I don't. Just at a difficult, worst moment under TVP I was in sight, but luckily out of the interest of the police. And thank God I escaped from these 2 boilers, thanks to the fantastic people from Warecka Street who opened the gates and allowed us to escape to the second yard. In my case, a person always walking in a skirt, getting through these daggers was a great adventure, but forced by circumstances. I would like to move on the streets of Warsaw and Poland without such problems, all the more so because I am not a criminal or a wanted person. I do nothing against the law, but rather ask for my human rights and civil rights. And as a result of these police actions... Well, I've been treated badly. I don't know if I should tell you or... [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Yes? I have been participating in the so-called, in the past, less regularly, now regularly, in the so-called. Contra-Months. I do not agree with what Kaczyński does 10 every month, what he did in the past, how there was a cross in Kraków Przedmieście, and what he does now, how there are black stairs to hell. One time I was left completely for no reason. I was walking quietly to Krakowskie Przedmieście, I wanted to turn to Piłsudski Square, which was stopped by the police. I didn't cross, I didn't protest, I said, well, I'm going to go further towards the Old Town. And soon after that, I was stopped without making a point. Even my legitimacy was no longer required, because I literally heard my personal information broadcast from the police radio a few steps earlier. So, actually, it wasn't... I haven't been written in a long time because my personal information is unfortunately known. I don't even know how many tickets, how many threats I'm facing because I'm not being informed. And then she was standing... not a bitch, just, well, a police limousine, so they could put me in it. She's been waiting. So it was all pre-planned. And I was brutally thrown into that limousine, on the floor, with my legs forward; I managed to sit there somehow. I was humiliated... they like to insult, refer to age, gender. It is also common now on the street, not only among the police, but also among the so-called. The nation. Then I was held at Wolf's. Rather, they tried to keep me there as long as possible, playing good cop and bad cop. After all, nothing bad happened to me there, legal aid worked great. On Wednesday at the Seym, when there were these events, I was walking... I wanted to bring two young people out. I now have a lot of friends among young people, because in fact I go out on the street primarily for them, for their very endangered future. And these two really young people I tried to get from the Sejm to Ujazdowski Avenue. And during that walk, we were stopped. Then I was brutally thrown into a police limousine and badly treated on the floor of that vehicle. I was being held by my legs with boots on the floor. I was also supposed to... The other officer immobilized my forearms so that I couldn't move at all. Since I always wear a skirt, you can guess where this skirt was during such events. Then I landed... They kicked me out of that bitch too. Sorry, from the limo. It's pretty brutal on Wolf's already. That's where I ended up on the floor on the bottom, no shoe, with a skirt below my knees. Well, humiliation, humiliation... Because I can't say that I'm somehow... Well, I can handle the attacks, the pain. Luckily it's cold now, so I'm wearing warm clothes, and it's cushioned, but the humiliation was very big. I spent some time on this floor. A policeman threw himself at me and his purse, as hanged up as it is now, started ripping me off, ripping me off to cause me pain. I suppose so, because I don't know why he would do something like that otherwise. And it all happened in the company of other cops and cameras, of course. Well, that's my experience with the police. Besides, I... I can't see cops as separate people because the same people who say to me, "Good morning, Mrs. Catherine, how do you feel today?" The next day they do what they do. In my opinion, the police are a group of people designed to haunt us. I also have my own private educational activities in Wilcza and New Town before the command, because I think I have the right to express my views. In accordance with Article 12 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the Commission shall adopt And I'm trying to do it. I do not bear the consequences for this reason, but I refer to various legal acts to make them aware that they are no longer the Polish state police, but the Polish party police of the PiS and the mafia of the Catholic Church. I also experienced very bad experiences from the police when I protested under the church of the Holy Cross, both myself and with my rainbow friends. The behaviour of the police was scandalous because they were inciting Bąkiewicz, the fascist, and his men to throw me down the steps of the Church of the Holy Cross. I don't know why, I don't understand. Of course, he's already being charged, a lawsuit has been filed against... and it was a cop who didn't hide his face, basically didn't hide his... He had a name-maker. He's an aspirant. Anyway, shocking to me was what I heard, how this man behaved towards me and earlier towards Angelica, also very badly treated there. I just don't have the words. Especially since the police, during all my actions under the church of the Holy Cross, were absolutely against me, brutally, and in one situation they left me to eat seven fascists from under the church, so-called. The soldiers of Christ; maybe they are already different names. When I just wanted to walk into my godfather's church... Because this is my church, me and the women from a few generations back were baptized there, and I have the right to go in there. In general, I have the right to enter there, just as everyone has the right to enter the church in Poland. And here I couldn't get into my godfather's church, from the unknown to me... Later it turned out that for completely false reasons. But the police always told me not to. I've always asked the cops to share it with me, make a way for me to go to Mass or church. They never did it, they supported the armies of these soldiers of Christ with great rosaries. It was simply the mafia police of the Catholic Church. These experiences with the Church and Ordo Iuris, because they're all closely connected... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I would only ask very much to be brief because...]] I'm just finishing up, and that's what I said. I have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u191	Thank you very much. I would like to make it possible for our invited guests, the Members who participated in these events, to take the floor. In advance, I ask you to be brief. First, I would like to ask you to speak and I will read your names, Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u192	Thank you very much. Dear Senators! Dear Members, Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! I would like to briefly present two problems, constitutional and legal problems, which I see against the background of all these events, which did not start a month ago or a few weeks ago, started much earlier, but that we have seen their escalation recently. I'm talking about two things. The first thing is a police operation that we could call action in the gray area. The main problem is, in my opinion, the abuse of the provisions of the Police Act, among others. abuse of the rule that police in tight formation may be covered by IDs. Therefore, a citizen or a citizen does not know who he is dealing with, and he later has a problem with filing a complaint about the actions of such an officer, because he does not know exactly who it was. I'd like to remind you that this is a cordon where the officers are standing in line, apart from each other about the width of the hand. I've got that feeling. On the basis of the observation of many demonstrations and many activities carried out by the police at these demonstrations That at the moment every appearance of police officers is in tight order, because at each of these events police officers have obscured IDs, even though they are not always in this width mentioned by me. This width is also mentioned in the Police Act, in the definition of compact order. It is therefore a problem, a problem for a citizen who collides with such a machine of power, because police officers performing their duties are the power towards a citizen. They have certain powers and, if they abuse them, such a person, a citizen, stands in a lost position, possibly wanting to prosecute his rights for violations by a police officer of his civil rights. Therefore, the Left has already submitted a legal solution that would allow the identification of police officers, and would therefore assume that they would carry IDs also when they are in this tight formation. This brutality of police is also manifested in the fact that they are making arrests, increasingly frequent arrests of citizens. This is, as spokesperson Adam Bodnar mentioned, an abuse and often... In 74 cases Yes, Mr. Spokesman? The court ruled that these detentions were unfounded. Moreover, detention is not a punishment. Detention has the function of a preventive measure, intended to allow the conduct of activities which are intended to safeguard this procedure If, of course, this is the case of someone who behaves in a way that violates legal order. Meanwhile, these detentions violate fundamental civil rights, the constitutional right to information, the freedom of the press. If we're dealing with the arrest of a journalist, a journalist, who's doing their job in those places where they report events. 'Cause they have that right. And the police treat them as members of a given demonstration, even though they show their press IDs... other gathered people who know them know that this is a journalist, a journalist... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mrs. Member, one minute. And I'd really like to ask...]] Yeah, yeah. ...and they tell you that, but they're being ignored. It's causing... All of this can have a freezing effect and cause other journalists to be afraid to report such events that are for power, for the ruling party currently uncomfortable. And that could result in a violation of the constitutional right to information. So I'm paying attention. I would also like to mention that, in the context of international constitutions and agreements, detention is a word that is understood very widely, regardless of the meaning of the term in the laws. So it could happen that there's some kind of coercion that by law isn't called detention. Then there's no record of the arrest. The actual stopping operation has been carried out. Any rights that have been granted to a citizen since the arrest should be exercised by then, not only since the detention decision, but as soon as the physical prevention of the movement of the person concerned is carried out... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mrs...]] ...just like we had. I'm almost done. To be dealt with in the case of Marshal Vladimir Charzasty. Formally, with regard to the provisions concerning the criminal law, the Code of Criminal Procedure, this was not a detention, but there was a physical, short-term deprivation of his liberty, preventing him from moving in order to carry out his duties, namely to vote in the Sejm. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much, Mrs. Member, really...]] I think it's a situation that shouldn't have happened... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Thank you very much.]] ...and I'd like it to be explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u193	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mrs Monica Wielichowska. From the point of view, yes, from the point of view.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u194	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Well, maybe from the beginning. I will refer to the events that took place on Wednesday because I was directly involved in them. Dear Lords, when the authorities made a fortress of Parliament surrounded by axes, surrounded by railings, police cordons, military police officers, it was known that measures were being prepared completely inadequate for the situation. Something bad was going to happen. And we weren't wrong. From the protests through social media began to come to us, to the MPs asking for parliamentary support and from here came mine, but also other parliamentarians, to participate in the protests. We talk all the time about Wednesday 18 November, about the protest in Warsaw at the roundabout de Gaulle. We were there as part of a parliamentary mandate to check whether detentions, identifications are legitimate, correct and legal. So I am a direct witness to the events of this peaceful protest, because it was a peaceful protest, but also other protests that take place in small towns: in Kłodzek, in Nowa Ruda, in Dzierżoniów or in Ząbkowice Śląskie. As for the protest in Warsaw, with Mrs Barbara Nowacka, we were in the boiler that you spoke about today in the boiler, which was formed by the police, uniformed police. These police boilers were completely unnecessary because there was no, I repeat, any aggression from the protesters. Unfortunately, in many places, which could easily be said, the police tried to escalate their emotions. No need at all. At the protest, parliamentarians tried to intervene in parliament. During one of them we were surrounded by a police cordon, which was absolutely not needed there because there was a writing of a young man. This cordon was getting tighter. One of the police officers violated my personal integrity, violated my personal space. I paid the officer's attention not to do it. I introduced myself, and I kept my message card in my hand the whole time. At one point, I was pushed so hard that my I.D. was destroyed, she just snapped and fell to the ground. I asked him to stop pushing us and introduce himself. I've said it several times, and I've got a lot of witnesses for it, and there's videos of it on social media. I asked for it several times, asked for a name, a business number. In the end, the officer gave me a name, but I still don't know if it's real data, because after a while, and just for a moment, I turned around, the cop was gone, he just disappeared, he ran away. On the same day, I spoke briefly from the speaker about what happened, calling on the speaker Jarosław Kaczyński, Deputy Prime Minister for Security Affairs. Well, you're familiar with the events, I'm sure you've seen them in the media. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senators! Today, it is not surprising that there is a huge crisis of social trust, of trust in the police, because after all these incidents this crisis itself is commented by recordings from protests where anti-terrorists, telescopic sticks and gas were used. These are pictures, Ladies and gentlemen, from Warsaw, very meaningful, very media, but at the end of my speech I would like to draw your attention to what is happening today in small towns where participants and protesters are exposed to greater ostracism. Today, protesters are being called to every small town at the police stations. Mainly These are young people who are intimidated in some way, being questioned and becoming afraid. That is why it is so important not to leave these people alone, because it is not the protesters who are guilty of these protests, but Jarosław Kaczyński, who in the middle of the pandemic caused emotions and poured gasoline into the fire. That's why the last sentence The Parliamentarians of the Civic Coalition have created a Network of Protest Defenses, within which we through the parliamentary offices, through the work of lawyers employed there, but also in cooperation with lawyers, lawyers from the Supreme Bar Association, helping, supporting these people, talking about how these young people, who are in this situation for the first time, are to behave. We cannot leave the protestors alone, and I ask the High House to do so as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u195	Thank you very much, Mrs. Member. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Rozenk. I'm asking for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u196	I'll try, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! Dear Ombudsman, First of all, I would like to point out that there are no police representatives in this room. I also draw attention to the fact that there are no representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is significant, because we would love to hear any explanation and any response in connection with this crushing criticism presented by the Ombudsman Adam Bodnar. I would also like to hear any explanation from the police about what you presented to Senator Klich and what we saw in these films. There is also no answer to what our wonderful grandmother, Mrs. Catherine, said. I draw attention to the fact that we would also like to know whether the current situation in the police force, this brutalisation of police officers, has something to do with the fight for stools, as the editor Czuchnowski wrote about. Does this have anything to do with the fact that there's a fight for the head of the M.E.A.'s office and the chief of police? It would also be worth hearing the answer to the question of what happened, that the police no longer care whether citizens trust them or trust them. According to recent research, trust in the police has fallen by 20 percentage points to the lowest level in recent years. It would also be worth hearing the answer to the question of what is happening, that the police are attacking Members, what is happening, that the police are also preventing Members who, in these demonstrations, are trying to provide assistance to demonstrators, Members who are trying to intervene on police commands. What happens when the police prevent lawyers from accessing the detained? This is all a public violation of human rights. Finally, we would like to hear the answer to the question of what happened in Poland, that journalists who fulfil their duties stop. What happened in Poland that the police and the PiS government led to the fact that in the ranking of reporters without borders Poland fell to 60th place? It is the ranking of freedom of the press. We're on it for countries like Armenia, Georgia. What finally happened, gentlemen, is that the police started using telescopic batons, ASP Talon Disc batons against peacefully protesting. These are extremely dangerous batons, batons, which are equipped with anti-terrorist troops. By the way, so far, anti-terrorists have been police elites, anti-terrorists are Inspector Wojciech Majer, younger inspector Grażyna Biskupska, and today anti-terrorists have the face of an ordinary bandit. And that is one of the reasons why we should demand that the Chief Inspector be dismissed, that the Minister of the Interior be dismissed and, above all, that the Deputy Prime Minister be dismissed, who is responsible for security. To conclude, I would first of all like to thank the Senate for having this debate here, thanking your marshals, the marshals. This is the last place we can debate about this. And to confirm that, I have concrete proof. The Marshal of the Sejm refused to allow a special meeting of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee on these events to take place this week in the Sejm, and she simply refused to do so. In the Seym, the committee cannot meet, and here in the Senate, we can sit. Thank you very much again. I also thank the Ombudsman for doing his job as he does, and to the senators, and to the senators for the fact that we can still count on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u197	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Caesar Tomczyk. [[Is this where...]] No, no, just from the spot. [[From here, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I think there's one thing that needs to be completely explained. This letter, which was sent by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, Mr Mariusz Kaminski, to the Senate Marshal, contains many lies, because there was no information in the Sejm from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, there was only a speech by the Minister in defense of Jarosław Kaczyński. We did, I did, at the Seniors' Convention, that there should be such information in the Seym, but there was no such information. The fact that there are no representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Police at the Senate today is a big scandal because the Polish Parliament is the place where the debate should take place, but we should also know the answers to all the questions here. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember the words of Prime Minister Beata Szydło, who said that the PiS would never lead the police against the protesters. It was the word given by Prime Minister Szydło that has been broken many times over the past weeks. It's an element we'll never forget. We intervened, and with you, Mr Szczerba, we were at Wilcza when a journalist stopped at the Ministry of National Education. We intervened because there were also several other people being detained. Only the worst or paradoxically worst is that in a normal democratic country such interventions would never be necessary. When a journalist, legiting herself, showing her press card, makes it very clear that she's doing her job here, that she's here on business, and then she gets stopped... This could not happen in a normal democratic country. And the saddest thing is that there must be such interventions that Members, police officers, must be in such situations on the ground. But it is indeed our duty to do so, and we will exercise that right. The fact that the police are able to enter the house of 14-year-old children today, which on social profiles say that they are taking part in protests, is very shocking. How can we teach young people what the word "citizen" is, what is the notion of protest, that they are protesting on the right cause? What the police did, which means sending police officers to 14-year-old children and threatening them with family court is probably the worst possible lesson. This in a normal democratic country should never have happened. We have therefore applied for a vote of distrust against Jarosław Kaczyński. This proposal, I hope, will also be an opportunity to debate, so that the person who is responsible for Polish security today can stand before the Sejm and answer difficult questions. It can certainly not be that there is a gross imbalance in the treatment of Polish citizens. Because if, on the one hand, an agent of the Homeland Security Agency enters the crowd and he is not charged with charges, because this man has no charges against him, and on the other hand under the Ministry of National Education is arrested, a press representative arrested, this is something that should never happen in a democratic country. If, on the one hand, there is extremely disproportionate treatment of representatives of the press who show a press card and on the other hand there is a policeman who looks like a kibol and instead of a service card uses a telescopic stick, then it seems that something like this should never happen in Poland. It is our great responsibility to uphold the law today, but this true law and true justice. And the last two sentences. First of all, I would like to make it clear on behalf of the Civic Coalition, but I think we all have the right to say that people have the right to protest. I mean, when are they supposed to protest, like not when human rights are violated, when women's rights are violated, when the rights of all of us are violated? This is the moment for a protest to which the right is guaranteed by the Polish constitution. Finally, I would like to quote you from the vows of a Polish policeman: I, a citizen of the Republic of Poland, aware of the duties of a police officer, vow: to serve faithfully the Nationals, to protect the legal order established by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, to protect the security of the state and its citizens, even at risk of life. Let me remind you that this is about putting an officer or a police officer's life at risk, not those who are protesting today in defence of human rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u199	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u200	Mrs. Marshal, thank you very much. And I would like to join you in thanking the Senate for organising today's debate. I would like to thank you all the more because it is impossible for us Members to speak and to debate such fundamental issues where this debate should take place, namely in the Sejm. More and more often it turns out that we, Members and Members, must fulfil our duties on the street, protecting, separating protesters, legally protesting, exercising their civil rights from police cordons. And more and more often, standing there, trying to descale the tension, trying to fulfill our responsibilities, we're afraid there's going to be violence. Okay, okay, okay, okay, not by protesters, but by violence by those whose duty is to protect those protesters. Many of us The Members and Members of the Left have witnessed the violence and brutality of the police and the abuse of police powers against protesters. But I would like to draw attention to another dimension of these protests and our necessary interventions. When the protest on the street is over, when people are already caught, detained and transported to the next precincts, we begin with Members and Members and for the attorneys, another cycle of several hours' search for the detained. We receive calls from families, from loved ones who do not know what police station the person is staying at; lawyers drive between Wilcza and Piaseczno, between Grodzisk and Zakroczymska, they drive through various police stations, and when they get there and find out that their client is there, it still takes a long time. - minutes, hours, sometimes you have to wait until the next day. So that the proxy or proxy can be admitted to their client. This is the situation in our view. But, as I understand it, also in the opinion of the ombudsman, he violates fundamental rights and civil liberties. We are talking about detained people, very often about young people who participate in demonstrations and protests for the first time in their lives. This is the first civil society lesson for them. Regardless of how we judge their views, whether we like the language in which they express themselves They have the right to protect, care and to exercise their rights. When she stops or scares a 14-year-old girl from Krapkowice, a 17-year-old from Limanowa, a 14-year-old from Olsztyn, it's these young people. Also those who go out into the streets in their towns and who are not stopped They fear for their health and safety. Their parents fear for their health and their safety. They don't know if even if there was a breach of law by a young person like that, that person will have access to his representative at the time of his arrest. I am talking about this because there is such a huge gap between the state and society in Poland. We as Members and Members are trying to bury this gap so that these young people who do not have electoral rights today, but will have it in 5 or 7 years, will not lose that trust completely. They're losing confidence in the police today. We know that less than half of Poles and Poles trust the police at all. This lack of trust is also a lack of confidence in public institutions and the state. ♪ Our common duty ♪ It is also the responsibility of the Deputy Prime Minister for Security, also the responsibility of the Prime Minister, to ensure that this confidence in the State is not completely squandered. All the more disgraceful is today's absence of representatives of power, but all the more so I am grateful to the Senate for the fact that such a space for this debate has been made available to us here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u201	Thank you very much. And please take the floor of Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u202	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Madam Deputy Ombudsman! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this debate and for the opportunity to share also the accounts of the events in which we participated. The High House knows that for the past five years, and especially in recent times, our role as parliamentarians and parliamentarians has not only been realized in the halls of the Sejm or the Senate, but also among people. And, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in Warsaw on the Warsaw Uprising Square on 18 November cannot be forgotten. It can't be forgotten because we've been dealing with something absolutely unbelievable. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been approached by 2 people, Mr. W. W. and Mrs A.L. These are two people who were directly injured. On November 18th, around 10:00 p.m., ununited male unmarked, found in a crowd He pulled out a telescopic baton all of a sudden. All those gathered around him considered him simply a bandit, a militant who came to cause confusion during the ongoing protest. And suddenly this telescopic baton was used twice by him, landed on Mr. W's head. W., who was doing his duty at the time. Mr. W. has been a photographer for over 20 years. Ladies and gentlemen, then the same man. As it turned out later, not a bandit, not a militant, and an officer, an anti-terrorist from the Counter-Terrorist Police Department, under the Police Headquarters, struck Mrs. A. L., he pushed her away, she fell. Then Mrs. A. L. was treated with gas by his colleagues who accompanied him. Ladies and gentlemen, in such cases, when victims come to us, we cannot remain indifferent. Therefore on Friday I filed a notice of suspicion of committing a crime to the District Public Prosecutor's Office Warsaw Śródmieście. Ladies and gentlemen, at my suggestion, Mr. W. W. did a medical examiner's examination. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to quote a portion of the study: on the head in the left parietal and occipital region, a vertical nasty-facial bruising of 5 cm per cm, passing peripherally within a radius of up to 1 cm into a yellowish bruising; within the described changes in the swelling of the subcutaneous tissue. I would like the High House to be fully aware that this man, after hitting with a telescopic baton, could have been a cripple for the rest of his life. That baton could have shattered his head, that baton could have killed him. At this point, in the High House, I appeal to the Attorney General for the immediate initiation of proceedings in this case. Such matters cannot be left unanswered by us. Second point, ladies and gentlemen, i.e. The event you've already mentioned, under the Ministry of National Education. It is a matter of stopping a person who also performed professional activities during the protest, and reported this protest to the photographic agency with which she cooperated. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be that journalists, journalists, photojournalists are treated with a specific freezing effect that they are being detained. I would like to thank my fellow Members very warmly, led by Senator Bogdan Klich. I would like to thank Mr Tomczyk, Mrs Żukowska, but also Dr Hanna Machinska, who came to the scene and participated in two activities on the spot, asking for the standards of interrogation of the detained. This is absolutely important. I would also like to say that this situation is very worrying for me, also as a citizen, not just a Member. I am fully aware that rebuilding the authority of the police, the prestige of working in the police will be something very long-lasting. I would like to thank the House, Mrs Marshal, for this debate, for the opportunity to speak in the debate on these two events in which I have been directly involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u203	Thank you very much. Thank you very much to all the invited guests for their comments. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich. I'm gonna ask very much for time discipline. [[Thank you very much. I think, Mrs. Marshal, I've run out of time in this introduction, which is why I'm gonna give up this statement. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u204	Mrs. Marshal, thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. What's the problem? Well, the problem is that women, Poles, but also Poles, citizens went out on the streets fighting for their basic rights. The right to dignity. This brutalisation in recent weeks is due to these protests. The brutalisation of police activities results from the biggest protests in the history of contemporary Poland, which include not only Warsaw, Poznań, Gdańsk, i.e. large cities, metropolises and medium cities, but also towns and towns of the county Poland. That's why someone in the PiS government decided to act harshly. The media reported that it was the decision of Jarosław Kaczyński. As a matter of fact, this coincides with the entry of the President of the PiS into the government as Chairman of the Security Committee. As regards individual cases, I would like to point out that similar actions, extremely brutal, against people taking part in walks, in these biggest demonstrations in Poland's history, take place not only in large cities, but also in smaller ones. There have been similar incidents in many smaller cities At least in J., where the police stopped Mr. M.L.'s flag-bearer. This man now has a case in court. In many, many other smaller towns there are various types of harassment, harassment by police authorities. As for incidents already in Warsaw itself, exceeding the rights... There's a lot of evidence that there was a provocation on November 18th. There was a Women's Strike in Warsaw, it was very peaceful, peaceful, but at some point someone decided to introduce an anti-terrorist unit that was not there at the beginning. The question is, who and why? We would like to ask these questions today to the Minister and the Chief of Police. Very eloquent that you're not here. We're not gonna get that information. We'd have to ask... We are getting signals that telescopic sticks were used, as Mr Szczerba mentioned, extremely dangerous, but also sticks that were not on service equipment. They say there were also private clubs, which would be a crime. We would also like to ask about the supplement of PLN 1 thousand 500 for anti-terrorists participating in the so-called. securing strikes. We know that's the kind of supplement that's been introduced. It is extremely scandalous and shocking in a situation of economic crisis, fighting the whole of Poland against a pandemic for health protection. There are holes in the shields, people are losing their jobs, and a specialist is introduced at this height for a narrow group of anti-terrorists who are headed for streets, ununited, with telescopic batons, beating walkers and women. There's brutalisation against women... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Mr. Senator, we can't hear you.]] Brutalisation of actions... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, the call is breaking. Mr. Senator, we can't hear...]] [[Disruption during the speech]] There is a brutalisation of actions against journalists as well. It is characteristic that this includes not only the actions of the police authorities, but also the prosecution. Please note what happened in Wroclaw with one of the reporters of the Gazeta Wyborcza. She was beaten by a hooligan on the street, thrown on concrete. A low-level prosecutor is filing for arrest. The regional prosecutor, possibly at the direction of the National Prosecutor's Office and Zbigniew Ziebrara, orders this request to be withdrawn. And a hooligan, an aggressor who beat up a woman, is released as a result of an intervention at the top of the DA's office. The problem with the police is that in recent years they have been outrageously politicized. The problem is that the people managing the Polish Police do not deal with the real problems of the Police, and this is 10,000 vacancies, 10,000 missing places in the Police. This is finally exceeding powers, unusual brutalisation for purely political purposes. [[Disruption during the speech]] According to recent research, there is a 20% less trust in the police as a formation. Police managers PiS politicians are hurting both citizens protesting in their legitimate affairs as well as the police themselves. This authority will be rebuilt after these governments for many, many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u206	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. High Izbo! I'm fundamentally surprised. Worse: I am outraged that today there is not here, in the High House, the Minister of Interior or the Chief of Police, invited to inform the High Senate about police brutality in recent weeks. Minister Kaminski As you know, one of the top politicians of the ruling formation, vice president of the PiS A week ago in the Sejm in such a very short statement, in which he did not explain anything, he defended Kaczyński's president for a dozen minutes, hard said that he was responsible for the police's actions. Well, if he's responsible, why didn't he have the courage to come to the Senate and explain these increasingly violent police activities in recent weeks? And I would like to ask him and Chief Szymczyk some absolutely fundamental questions. Why, on 11 November, after weeks of preparation and announcements of environments that had attacked other fellow citizens in previous years, attacked public property, used flares, stones, burned cars, police reacted extremely slowly, after 15 minutes? She appeared in the place where the interior of the Empik was torched after a dozen minutes. After an hour and a half of riots, the police still couldn't control the crowd, and this crowd was fired with flares that set fire to private homes. Meanwhile, a week later, during a peaceful demonstration on November 18th, the police practically still had such forces and means to surround a few thousand people from a smaller or greater distance. Why the imbalance? Why was the state police certainly much less prepared for the aggressive ones who were known to be aggressive on November 11th and much more prepared when the protest was peaceful? Is the reason for this is the speech by Jarosław Kaczyński a month ago, first on Facebook of the ruling party and then in the Seym, where he said that demonstrations of women, young people, a large part of society, as Senator Brejza rightly said here, the biggest demonstrations in the history of Poland... Then Jarosław Kaczyński announced the harsh use of state resources, state services, but also appealed to the members and sympathizers of the ruling party to oppose these demonstrations. Whether it was then that the Polish Police received a commandment from the political authorities of the parties ruling the state, an order to attack in a much more brutal way, to drive, to disturb peaceful demonstrations. I would like to ask both Chief Szymczyk and Minister Kaminski why we have been dealing with mass repression since then, with interrogations, with calling for commands, with writing and with what we have seen in these films, i.e. with the brutality of partially un uniformed policemen beating Polish young people and Polish children. I'd like to ask Chief Szymczyk if he's still running the state police or the party police. And Mr. Kaminski and Mr. Kaczynski wouldn't ask any more. If they were sitting here, I would tell them to their face that they are turning the police, which for a quarter of a century of free Poland has gained a good reputation, into the party police, that they are destroying another body of the Polish state, just as they are destroying the whole country. The fact that the police have lost 1/3 of the support and trust of the public in recent months, that at the moment they trust her much less than half of the Poles, is the fault of them and those who follow their instructions. To conclude, Mrs Marshal, I would like to say that for tomorrow evening further demonstrations are announced throughout Poland. They will also be held in my Poznań. What I'm trying to say is that this evening, I'm gonna be watching the police work again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Joanna Sekula, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u208	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear guests! The protests we have seen for many weeks are a tribute to the fact that, in the building of the Constitutional Tribunal, someone thought that the rules allowing abortion in the event of severe and irreversible damage to the foetus were incompatible with the constitution. This in practice means a ban on legal abortion in Poland. So let us not be surprised that women have gone out into the streets to protest. They have every right to do that. They have the right to express their opinions and the right to shout their opposition, even at the protest. This law guarantees us a constitution, but it comes from morality and humanity. The PiS government must have fallen very low in terms of morals and human rights, since Minister Kaczyński expects the suppression of freedom of speech and protests by means of a baton held by people pretending to be police officers. You can see that what's been going on lately has nothing to do with a uniform-worthy attitude. As Senator of the Civic Coalition, I protest with these brave women. I also protest against the instrumental treatment of power and the introduction of the piS in place of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u209	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Lydia Staron. It's remote. [[Can you hear me? Can you hear me?]] Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u210	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there are demonstrations passing through the country. Some of the participants of these manifestations are in a vulgar way attacking Not only verbally, but also physically. Catholics and police officers. Plus, it happens during a pandemic. There have been events we've never seen before. There was a disruption of Holy Mass and the destruction of the facades of churches, i.e. acts of ordinary vandalism. What will such action lead to? To escalate violence? We saw slogans such as smoke in churches on these manifestations. That is why such actions should be met not only with reprimand but also with a criminal response. The destruction of property or the management of threats are, after all, acts pursued as crimes. Many times there were slogans calling for the overthrow of elected authorities, legally, to abortion at any time and in any case, simply on request. And that's the end of it. The level of aggression of the participants in these demonstrations is extremely worrying. Giving support to such groups, and above all to the initiators of these protests by politicians of different options, is extremely irresponsible behaviour. Who like who, but parliamentarians should be the first to defend the legal order of the state. In turn the law protects the dignity of all, not only demonstrators, but also Catholics, who have recently met with the manifestations of immense hatred. It cannot be that, with the slogan of tolerance and respect for the Constitution, this constitution is trampled on, and tolerance is understood as acceptance of the most vulgar behavior. Calling for protests or even giving moral support to those organizing these protests is nothing more than adding fuel to the fire. As a result of such actions, including parliamentarians, support for manifestors, many people in our country do not feel safe today, many have concerns that they will not become subject to verbal and, above all, physical attacks. My fellow senators expressed concern at the actions of public authorities aimed at undermining the secular character of our state guaranteed in the Constitution. It's just that no one's questioning the nature of the state. It's in the constitution. But also the same constitution, which some politicians are willing to invoke, guarantees freedom of conscience and religion for everyone. Catholics are also citizens of our country and the constitution guarantees that. Art. 53 of the Polish Constitution states that freedom of religion includes freedom to confess or accept religion according to its own choice, etc. Is it a coincidence that religion and faith, which teaches us to distinguish between right and wrong, to go against the current when we have to defend values, principles, and weaker ones, is treated with such hatred? It cannot be that, for some, tolerance ends where Christianity begins. For many today, values such as patriotism and responsibility do not exist. Are young people raised in this spirit today? Once again, I think it is important to stress that, in the light of our constitution, faith and religion are our roots. And Poland, and Europe. Catholics have a constitutional right to manifest their beliefs, practice their religion, and thus to make decisions in both family, professional and public life. Poles want to live in a country which also respects the rights of the weakest, including those not yet born, are against abortion on request. ♪ and dot and dot ♪ ♪ and And adoption of children by homosexual couples. If we know that harm is being done next to us, we react. And it's natural. You have to repeat: I can't care about these things, I can't be in pain. You can't use the passwords of tolerance and constitution to hurt others. You can't justify violence and then yell "Tolerance!" and "Constitution." Therefore, it cannot be so that the State does not uphold the guarantee of freedom of conscience of Christians. It must act, it cannot be passive, of course always according to the law. And we MPs not only cannot keep quiet, but we must oppose such street protests or supposedly peaceful attacks. Street aggression reached the zenith, and language and vulgarity of the bottom. Only physical violence, which we have already seen, can follow. We live in a free country, we have the right to protest, we have a free country. But manifesting these beliefs cannot take place in an atmosphere of hatred, violence, and fear. Regardless of the beliefs, the current street protests organized by the so-called. Women's strike should meet with a negative assessment, including parliamentarians. If not because of the views of their participants, because of their form It is vulgar and a threat to public security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u211	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u212	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, Dear Ombudsman, Invited guests! In 2015, the then head of the PiS strongly declared: "In the days of the rule of law and justice, we police against protestants will not, as the Platform did, respect dialogue, freedom and differences of opinion." How much the words of Beata Szydło and other politicians of her camp are worth today, we find out practically every week. The brutality of some police officers, masked anti-terrorists in civilian uniforms, including those with aggression convictions, and pseudo-kibbit militias supporting uniformed services in beating, in ripping off peaceful demonstrators This is now the card of the Polish authorities for years which have devastated the rule of law and suppressed all active manifestations of democratic behaviour. Today, the media is filled with documented reports of illegal actions by the armed governing arm. Violating the integrity of parliamentarians, ripping them out of a crowd of individuals, hitting them with gas, moving them out of the capital and leaving them there, unwarranted detentions, subsequent repression and harassment of political opponents Until recently, this was the standard that we observed only in other countries, in those where dictatorship no longer creates the appearance of democracy. It is only in dictatorship that the police, instead of protecting citizens from lawlessness, protects politicians from citizens demanding their rights. Only in a dictatorship can a teenager become a public enemy, who makes information uncomfortable on Facebook, or a small woman struggled by several grown officers or brutally beaten with a telescopic baton. This is another proof that the misunderstanding of the world, the misunderstanding of reality, or rather the lack of the will to understand it causes fear, and this one becomes the cause of aggression. How great must be the fear of power today that it can only afford to avenge the weakest. How much you have to have on your conscience to send anti-terrorists trained to brutally fight the most dangerous criminals against women and teenagers. How cynical it is to hold minors illegally in police stations, to persecute them in schools, or to overpower them with sprayed-in-the-eye gas. What a lot of nerve it takes to threaten people who identify in a network of regime officers dressed as bandits and who struggle to get out of the crowd or surrounded protesters. Finally, how bad it is to be a man to proclaim that this is all in defence of the homeland and Christian civilization. In one of his entries, Zbigniew Hołdys warned that such increased brutality of the service could only lead to the fact that the young generation will soon see their Grzegorz Przemyk. This dark warning also obliges us parliamentarians to protest loudly against the criminal aggression of state officials, while still minor heroes of today's persecutions escape with life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator George Wcisla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u214	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate, actually, one part of the Senate! Professor! Dear guests! When it comes to police action during protests, we have a double voice in Poland. This is otherwise reported by protesters, documenting images from authentic recordings of these participants, otherwise said representatives of the police, government and party, Law and Justice. So we invited both sides to the Senate to ask what it really was like. What were the police doing protecting protesting women or beating them? Or did protesting women beat policemen? Or is it that the police supervisor doesn't know that he's hiring bandits, we can assume, maybe he doesn't know, and maybe here he'd find out? Not law enforcement and citizens' defenders? Unfortunately, neither the minister nor the police chief came to the Senate and there are no Senators of the PiS. They know the truth from public television. They don't have to confront their knowledge here. Maybe they're afraid of that confrontation, too. Are they afraid of confronting the films that were presented here, with the participants, with the senators, with the Members who participated, or were they observers of these protests? Or maybe, High Senate, the level of insolence of those absent today is so great that they don't feel the need for their version of events to be believed at all? Everyone will answer these questions themselves. However, there is another dimension to the behaviour of the police during the demonstrations, as well as this behaviour from today, in relation to the invitation to the Senate. Protests take place throughout Poland, in small towns, 10 thousand, and protesters will also receive clear information from the Polish government today: we will not talk to you other than with tear gases and telescopic sticks. High Senate, I am of the generation of Solidarity and I know that such a strategy usually ends dramatically. Minister, Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, the blood that is shed on these demonstrations and which will probably be shed on other demonstrations will be blood on your hands. In Elbląg during the demonstration I met with one of the leaders of the Women's Strike. I asked women, apart from the cases they're fighting for, to take care of the ombudsman, because this is the only constitutional institution that's still in office. The defence of citizens against the monopoly of power. We can't. And women, and protesters or women's strikers It's going to make us lose this institution. And we know that's what they're going to do. Professor Adam Bodnar's presence today shows that this request is needed. And, High Senate, I will answer to Senator Lydia Staron. As a graduate of the Catholic University, who for daring to study at the CUL in the 1980s had to explain himself before the Esbecia, I would say: Senator, Christian values do not defend themselves with sticks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. We see on our streets in such a special period of time, a pandemic period, as interpreted by the PiS government so often appearing in the mouth of the politicians of the United Right about giving dignity to Poles. The films presented today document that for the current government, giving dignity to Poles means intimidating, falling, beating, even terrorizing Polish society... torturing, sorry, torturing Polish society. Excuse me, but, uh, I'm gonna read you the message I received, and it really upset me. Torturing, beating, intimidating people regardless of age, whether or not it's twelve. - 14-year-olds, or an 80-year-old woman. The frightened government derails Parliament with railings and thousands of police cordons, and uses a kettle to treat singers with the most dangerous terrorists, pulling gas and batons on citizens. And the frightened Senators of Law and Justice are hiding in the corners of the city, as we can see, two have arrived; I think they know that this point is almost over, this information is not to be heard about what is happening today in the streets of Polish cities. Just a moment ago, I was informed that at the moment 6 people were detained, Polish citizens, 3 women and 3 men. They lead the main picket under the command, reading to police officers, quietly reading to police officers fragments of judicial decisions declaring their actions unfounded, illegal and badly carried out. They're probably gonna snatch them up in a minute. I would like to thank all Poles, for whom the future and freedom of the Polish society is so important that they risk their health and life and are still on the streets. A great respect for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm informing you that... There you go, Senator Barbara Boris-Damian.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u218	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Since our debate is coming to an end, and always ends with the fact that we have many government representatives asking questions and asking them to be answered, I am now addressing the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński To which all force services are subject and which caused Poles across Poland, in small and large cities and towns, to go out into the street He asked me in writing to answer the following questions. I have the right to ask them as part of the senator's mandate. Why has he not taken a public stand on this matter so far, and as Deputy Prime Minister, he has not spoken, has not assessed the situation he has provoked? Why can't Mr Kaczyński hate women so much and understand that they have the same rights as men? Why is Mr Kaczyński playing with life, the fate of the police he humiliates by telling them to go out on the streets for such a base purpose? After all, they have wives, daughters, mothers, grandmothers, and they also suffer because they lose the good reputation for their hard work. Please give me a written reply in accordance with the procedure in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the list of speakers in the debate has been exhausted. For the record, I would also like to inform you that Senator Benjamin Godyla has made his speech in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Thank you, senators, for your speeches. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please let me drive. Thank you, senators, for your speeches. Would Mr Adam Bodnar, ombudsman of civil rights, like to take the floor and comment on the statements made by the senators during the discussion? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u220	Dear Marshal! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, I would like to thank you very warmly for the opportunity to speak and, above all, for today's debate. I think that it is important for many citizens, who are unable to understand what is happening in Poland, are unable to understand why in a country that is known as a democratic state, there are situations of this kind, why violence becomes ubiquitous, why there is no day in principle when we would not be able to observe the various events in which this violence, also from the police side, appears. I'd like to... I will not refer to all the themes, because I think it would be extremely difficult, but I would like to refer to some of the issues that have been indicated here. There was also one very specific question for me. In his speech, Senator Klich recalled these films, those events that took place. One of those movies was a video of Mr. A. K., who told us what happened to him by un uniformed policemen. I would like to draw your attention to one point. This material is of particular value because thanks to the fact that the representatives of the Ombudsman's Office were in detention rooms and met with people detained on 18 November, a large part of the facts presented by Mr A. K, we can confirm. Well, we have a specific memo about our presence and conversation. I spoke in my speech. about one person who was strangled to the ground and treated in a humiliating manner. Then it turned out. In the meantime, we checked it out. That it was about Mr. Adam Królikowski. I believe that since I have both film footage and confirmation from my associates, my role is to report suspicion of a crime. Well, this material leaves no doubt about what might have happened, so the D.A.'s office should explain it. But I also draw your attention to the importance in this context of independent performance of functions related to the National Torture Prevention Mechanism, which also concerns inhuman and degrading treatment. The fact that this function is at the disposal of the Ombudsman is the result of the Optional Protocol to the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment which Poland has ratified. This shows how fundamental it is for representatives of the Ombudsman's office to be able to reach such people independently so that they do not fear that someone will look at them one way or another, that the Ombudsman will appear in such places at all. This is the most direct form of verification of what is happening in detention rooms. Moreover, I would like to stress that this is a function that serves demonstrators from various demonstrations, because after 11 November we were also at the stations and monitoring whether these rights are respected. In my opinion, what Mr. Adam Rabbitowski was talking about is undoubtedly fulfilling the mark of humiliating and inhumane treatment. But there is always this fluid border, a place where humiliating and inhuman treatment ends, and torture begins. These are always cases that are the subject of specific investigations by the courts, and I would not like to prejudice this here. But the fact that we're thinking about it is already extremely serious. What was puzzling about this account are stories that as a lively story resembled the story of Igor Stachowiak. We remember that the footage about Igor Stachowiak, the footage from the toilet, didn't come from the fact that this toilet was chosen for the use of a taser, but precisely because it meant that there was no recording to hide from the surveillance cameras at the police station, and this footage was from the taser that had the camera installed. Later, Bojanowski's editor managed to reach these recordings and reveal them to the public. I would also like to talk about the question of batons and this telescopic baton. It appeared in the statements of Senator Breyza, but we returned to it in many speeches. If we look at the law on direct coercion, we will see that the law uses the term "service stick." And when we get into the internal regulations on service equipment, we'll see that it's only there that different kinds of clubs, tonfa batons or telescopic batons appear. And this is the situation that shows us that we need to regulate it better, that the law on direct coercion must be precise, because the use of a telescopic stick is much more vulnerable from the point of view of civil rights and freedoms, harm and danger of health and life are much greater here than the use of a common baton. So that is a very specific thing that needs to be improved in legislation and greater guarantees of rights for citizens. But the question is whether they were batons in service equipment at all. We don't know that, it's a matter of explanation. I remember... I don't know, I don't want to prejudice, because I don't know what kind of service weapon the BOA officers have, but it reminds me of one story. Namely, about three years ago, we intervened regarding the use of private stunners by police officers. Then, as a result of the letters addressed to the chief police officer, the chief recommended that we absolutely not use private equipment, because one of the guarantees of our rights is that the police use authorized equipment, checked for which they are trained, and that there is no doubt about it. Finally, I would like to say two more points. Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Dear Members and Messengers! The Council of Europe, and in particular the Special Committee on Torture, recently issued its report on the ad hoc visit to Poland. The fact that the Torture Committee, the CPT, is making ad hoc visits at all, already shows something. You don't go ad hoc to a country where nothing happens, you don't go to make ad hoc visits to Iceland or Finland, you go to countries where there are problems. This report is extremely critical precisely in terms of what is happening at police stations and ends with this wording: CPT stresses that if the Polish authorities do not make progress to radically strengthen the level of cooperation with the committee, including the implementation of long-term CPT recommendations, the Committee may be obliged to follow the procedure set out in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 conventions and issue a public statement in this regard. And further: CPT hopes that sudden and decisive action by the Polish authorities will result in no need for such action. What is this Article procedure? Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Two? This means that the situation in Poland will be put to the vote within the committee. If 2/3 of the Member States of the Council of Europe find that Poland does not cooperate, then Poland will be publicly stigmatized because it does not cooperate. It's a terrible shame. And this is another institution that says: we reach the most far-reaching means of diplomatic pressure to indicate that Poland is violating certain standards. If anyone has any doubts about this, let's not talk about recent situations, but let's just take a look at this report, what they said at the police stations and other places of imprisonment. That is why I have an appeal not to finish dealing with this issue in today's debate, to really address this issue, because it was signalled by many NGOs from Poland and international organisations. For years it has been signalled by a lawyer to guarantee fundamental rights in the relations and contacts of a citizen with the police. I urge you to consider legal changes. I suggested considering a law that could be symbolic, a law on the observance of human rights in the police's activities. You could invite all these bodies, all these institutions to a fair discussion. I think the Independent Self-Governmental Police Union might be interested in that, too. I have contacts with police unionists. I think a lawyer would be very interested. I think that the academic world, as well as all international organisations, who really do not wish us badly, will be interested, but would like to ensure that we have standards that meet the standards of fully democratic states. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman, for speaking. For the record, Senator Jolanta Hibner has remotely submitted her speech to the minutes. This item is closed. Thank you very much. I would like to thank the invited guests and all the senators for their participation in the debate. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on local taxes and charges. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is contained in print No 247 and the committee's report In print No 247 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u222	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On 28 October, the Senate Marshal sent to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration a draft law amending the Act on Local Taxes and Charges to consider it at first reading. The committees at their joint meeting on 24 November considered the draft law presented, amended it and requested the Senate to adopt a uniform draft law and a draft resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. The purpose of the amendment is to clarify the provisions determining the scope of the real estate tax exemption referred to in Article. Paragraph 7 1 Act on local taxes and charges, in the section on exemption from rail land tax. Designed solutions meet the expectations of local government, eliminating the existing tax gap. I stress that this is about eliminating the tax gap that was discussed so much in this House yesterday. The current legal situation, i.e. the existence of a gap, allows for the use of a real estate tax exemption by entities that do not operate on the railway market but use an imprecise rule to avoid tax. The scale of this phenomenon was presented by those invited to the joint meeting of the committee of representatives of the municipalities. This is not a common problem in Polish municipalities, it concerns only this group of municipalities, which have large transhipment stations on their territory, a lot of railway infrastructure. Such examples are included in the explanatory memorandum, among others. the municipality of Terespol or the municipality of Sławków. To put it graphically, the problem is that private entrepreneurs, who own even a small piece of the railway siding, can benefit from a tax exemption for the entire registration plot of the land. This plot can be huge and can also serve to carry out a very extensive business activity unrelated to rail. Moreover, the scale of this problem is increasing because entrepreneurs merge land, combine the registered parcels, and then there is exemption, as I said, from the taxation of the property on which the business is carried out. This project has been evaluated. He received many positive opinions, but he also met with critical remarks. Critical comments came from both the local government and the Ministry of Infrastructure. The Ministry of Finance supported the project and these actions, local authorities drew attention to the narrowing of this exemption, which would take place after the adoption of the draft law in the original version, similarly the Ministry of Infrastructure drew attention to this. Hence the amendment introduced during the work of the committee. The Ministry of Infrastructure proposed much more changes in its project. We have assumed that this case must finally be brought up, because the problem has been known for 4 years, i.e. since the amendment of the law on local taxes and charges, and it has been repeatedly signalled. Unfortunately, no echoes. The scale of the flow of money from the government budget as a result of avoiding, in my opinion, completely unreasonablely, property tax is already estimated at PLN 1.4 billion and, as I said, this amount is increasing. I therefore call on the honourable senators to adopt this proposal so that concrete, real work can begin on changing these records. I am concerned that amendments will be made to the Sejm, and it will probably be proposed by the Ministry of Infrastructure. It can already be seen that at least one will be necessary because the project contains the date of entry into force of the provisions on 1 January 2021. Well, you'd have to process it at as fast as those tax bills that were dealt with yesterday, which I don't think there's anything to count on. So this date will probably be changed. In any case, it is about starting this job now so that there is no further financial loss in a situation where this money is also rapidly lacking in local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u223	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Does anybody want to ask your senators that question? I don't see any volunteers. Does a government representative wish to speak on the draft submitted? [[There's no government representative.]] There's no government representative. I therefore open the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u224	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is rare that, in this House, we have such a clear case which, as in the lens, shows that the legislative errors that have been committed will later project on very many issues, and in an extremely unfavourable way. The Senacki bill solves the problem of gaps, which result in local governments losing their tax exemptions on land occupied for railway activities. But this isn't land occupied for rail operations. Mr Frankiewicz spoke about this. The design of this provision in 2016 I'm going to talk about it again. It was so bad, so bad that the case law went in such a direction that the smallest part of railway infrastructure on real estate, e.g. not used for decades rail siding, causes the entire area to be exempt from property tax. Ladies and gentlemen, there are situations where this provision has achieved exactly the opposite effect as we planned. Because the intention of preparing this provision in 2016 was to ensure that the railway infrastructure did not disappear, even where it is not used, or even developed in a wider way. What have we achieved? The most interesting example was the Commune of Terespol Krzysztof Ivanik, and the chairman of the board of the Rural Union. The commune of Terespol represents a unique commune, because of this commune we say it is our railway gate to the east. It is in the municipality of Terespol that the railway node Małaszewicze, which is the end of the railway route from the east, from China, is included as a key element of the so-called. The new Silk Road to which goods are to be transported, in particular from China to Europe. Currently, there are 5 PKP Cargo terminals in Małaszewicz, including a universal container terminal, and 13 transhipment terminals. And I have good news for you: since the start of the actual wider use of this area, only the development of this infrastructure has taken place since the start of the New Silk Road initiative in this area. But she's not developing anymore. Someone will ask the question: why? It is precisely because in 2016 we adopted rules that would enable and safeguard the development of railway infrastructure. You will ask the question: how could such an absurd rule have been adopted? We visited your uncle here; he presented in detail what the municipality of Terespol looks like. I have in my hands the map on which the Małaszewicze knot is located. And this knot, this area in its entirety, is already used for the handling of rail goods. There seems to be a lot of free land next door, but this area next door is already another municipality. This is already the municipality of Zalesie, which the municipality does not want to develop such infrastructure in its territory, saying that for this reason it will not have any Can you tell me how this is possible? After all, railway infrastructure is only a fragment, after all, these areas are huge transhipment areas where goods are stored. But the interpretation of these bad rules from 2016 with such a terrible design of these regulations went in such a direction that The entire area later, in the future, if it is on one property, is exempt from real estate tax. What happened? It has come to the fact that the regulations which were intended to protect the railway infrastructure, to lead to its development, have actually led to the fact that this infrastructure does not develop in key economic interests of Poland. And this is not about how they tried to introduce us to bring about a financial burden on public railway companies. On the contrary. The amendment that we introduced at the joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Local Government will lead to the fact that there will be no doubt that the tax is paid on those areas which are not directly used for rail transport, but are used for other purposes. The provision which was introduced in 2016 reads as follows: "Grunts and buildings included in the railway infrastructure are exempt from real estate tax', this also applies. And here's the interesting thing. Private infrastructure. We have led to a situation where the public interest, after all, local governments represent the public interest. He loses to the private interest. Ladies and gentlemen, in this courtroom, local government officials have given us various examples of mines that do not pay any real estate tax or private terminals. Why? Only because there is often unused railway infrastructure on the piece of used property. In order for you to understand me well: I am not saying that those who wrote the law in 2016 were guided by bad intentions that they were lobbyists of some private interests. I am saying that they wrote these laws so inefficiently that they simply need to be changed as soon as possible. Moreover, this intention was agreed by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Marcin Horała, who at the committee meeting said that the intention to change was good, but he stressed, of course, that it had to be done so as not to burden railway companies financially where they perform these public transport obligations. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a unique opportunity for us to remove the political divisions as soon as possible. I apologize for such a term, but this situation completely entitles the use of such a word, which unfortunately was released from Parliament. And it is worth changing this provision as soon as possible, also because even if it were to start to apply later than it is written in the project As the Sejm will indeed have to change this, the recipe of me can already enter into force on 1 January 2021. This will already be an important signal for the courts, which will now or in the coming months settle such cases. Thus, this has a chance even before the legislative changes have somehow affected the case law in this regard. Let me remind you that the purpose of the amendment is to clarify the provisions governing the scope of the real estate tax exemption, which is regulated in Article. Paragraph 7 1 Act on local taxes and charges in the section on exemption from rail land. The amendment adopted by the joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the local government committee protects the interests of public railway companies, the owners of the railway infrastructure used and does not protect 'Cause she shouldn't, and she can't even protect Private property owners' interests, including, of course, foreign capital owners, who are lucky to have often unused rail infrastructure in their territory for many years. The law must specifically safeguard the public interest, including the interests of local government. We're really talking about the huge scale of the problem. We have different estimates here, Mr Frankiewicz called for them. But there is no doubt that only in this part of the infrastructure that is not a strict sense rail infrastructure, we are talking about hundreds of millions of zlotys. It has often been pointed out in many places, including in Parliament, that legislation must not be made in the interest of narrow lobbyist groups. And I repeat once again: I do not accuse that this legislation was prepared with such intentions in 2016, but it simply did not work out for those who wrote it. Therefore, we must amend these provisions as soon as possible so as not to leave any question of interpretation. We need to remember that these revenues that are generated by local governments are revenues that are spent on solving problems of residents, schools, kindergartens, crèches, on roads. This problem needs to be dealt with as soon as possible. Sometimes there are things that we can settle over political divisions. I have no doubt that this bill is part of such initiatives. Let us close this case today for the benefit of local governments, for our small homelands, introducing changes without losses for the development of railways and the provision of public transport services. The narrowing of the rules on the exemption from property tax is undoubtedly the implementation of the public interest. And that's why we're in Parliament to take care of this business, to take care of it, to watch over it, and to stand up for it. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Krzysztof Brejza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u226	Message one. Meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the examination of applications submitted at the 18th Senate meeting to the Law on the modification of feedingstuffs The senate print number 266 will take place today, 5 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 182. Another announcement. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy on the examination of the applications submitted at the 18th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other acts of the Senate will be held today at 17.00 in combined rooms No. 176 and 179. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u227	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until 8:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 58 to 21 minutes 03]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u228	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that the break lasted quite long and that some of the senators who voted in the Chamber will vote remotely for various reasons at the moment, we will conduct a test vote to see how the system works with more people voting remotely. Please cast any vote to confirm your presence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 66 senators voted and so many are attending the sitting at the moment. [[Voting No 16]] [[Voice in the Chamber: Committee sitting is underway.]] As far as I know, the committee is finishing up, but... [[Voice in the O.R.: They end slowly. They're already at the end, and they're voting on the last amendment.]] They're voting on the last amendment. If you allow us, we will return to the second agenda: the Law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution asking for amendments to the Act. A minority of committees also submitted a proposal for an amendment to the law. All the amendments presented are contained in Senate printing No 248 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. If you don't mind, we're gonna give the committee two minutes to get back to the courtroom, especially since one of the remote senators is telling me she's having trouble connecting. It's a four-minute technical break. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 06 to 21 minutes 09]] Ladies and gentlemen, while respecting the senator's free mandate... I don't think the committee would mind if I went down to the senators and mobilized them. They can't get through the last amendment. I declare an additional 10 minutes' rest until 21.20. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 09 to 21 minutes 20]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to remind you that we are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and some other laws. We'll proceed with the vote. The amendments are largely blocked. Amendments 1, 4, 5, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 23, 29, 30, 32, 34 and 35 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. One person on the remote still doesn't vote, which means we have to wait 20 seconds. 93 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 40 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Please note that amendments 2, 3, 8, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 22, 31, 33 and 36 Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 42 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 6 seeks to clarify the references used. Who's in favour? Please turn on the machine... It's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? What about Senator Jackowski? I'm a polite reminder of... Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Look out! Amendments 7, 9 and 39 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on the proposal of a minority of committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Therefore, as these amendments have been accepted, there will be no vote on the minority proposal. Amendment 24 seeks to define the definition of family members for the purposes of the so-called "tax" rules. Estonian tax. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 21]] Attention, amendments 25 and 26 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? And Senator Kopiczko? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted in favour, 51 against, 46 against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 27. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 96 for, 3 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 28 seeks to correct the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Corporate Income Tax Act and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 249 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At its meeting on 26 November, the Commission considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 25 November and therefore asks the High Senate to accept the proposals set out in points 1, 3
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u230	Thank you very much, senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority committee, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees. [[Voice from the room: Can't hear...]] Microphone, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u231	I haven't moved to that bill yet. I ask you to support the proposals of the minority of the committee, so to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u232	Thank you for the precise information. So I ask: do the senators of the applicant want to speak again? Senators Krzysztof Mróz and Rafał Ambrozik submitted their conclusions during the discussion. In addition, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj was the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Note: Amendments 1, 11, 26, 28 and 30, 33 and 34 must be voted in total. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 2, 12 and 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51, 47 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 26]] We will therefore not vote on Amendments 2 and 12. Since Amendments 3, 4, 5, 7, 14, 15, 16, 18 and 24 are sufficiently precise and legislative and can therefore be voted together, I ask the Senate whether I will be approved for such a vote. Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u233	Mr. Marshal, we, as a club of law and justice, are opposed because in the case of some of these amendments we are in favour, and in some cases we are in favour. No, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u234	Okay. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed with the vote on Amendments 3 and 14, which aim to ensure the substantive consequences of the inclusion of certain non-legal companies in the obligation to draw up local transfer pricing documentation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendments 4 and 15 should be voted on together. They aim to ensure the substantive consistency of the rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Note: Amendments 5 and 16 must also be voted together. They aim to ensure the substantive consequences of the inclusion of certain non-legal companies in the obligation to draw up local transfer pricing documentation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 were in favour, no one was against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 6 aims to delete the provisions limiting the right of a taxable person to obtain income outside the borders of the Republic of Poland to benefit from the so-called. Abolition relief. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] N.B.: Amendments 7, 18 and 24 must be voted together. They shall aim to ensure a correct reference to the rules contained in the relevant implementing acts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Attention, amendments 8 and 19 must be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] N.B.: Amendments 9 and 20 should be voted together. They aim to delete non-normative provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Attention, on Amendment 10, 22, 23 and 25 must be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 were in favour, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] N.B.: Amendments 17 and 32 should be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51, 47 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 21 seeks to delete the provisions establishing the obligation to draw up and make public information on the tax strategy implemented for the tax year by certain corporate tax payers. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 3 for, 95 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 27 seeks to increase the share of municipalities, powiats and voivodships in income tax revenues from individuals. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 31 seeks to establish a transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 256 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One amendment was tabled during the debate. The Health Commission today re-examined the entire project and maintained its decision to reject the law in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u236	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to speak again? Senator Richard Bober submitted his conclusions during the discussion. In addition, the committee's rapporteur was Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion of the Health Committee to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act amending certain laws in relation to the counter-crisis situation related to the occurrence of COVID-19. We would like to return to the discussion of the fifth item on the agenda: the law on the profession of pharmacist. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 255 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u237	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Commission, at its meeting on 27 November 2020, considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 26 November 2020 on the Pharmaceutical Trade Act and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate would like to accept the proposals set out in points 1 Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. Do you still want to speak, senator? Your conclusions were made during the discussion by Senator Wojciech Necessary. In addition, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor was also the rapporteur of the Health Committee. I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Note: Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. They aim to extend the scope of pharmaceutical care to carry out preventive vaccinations. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Someone on the remote still can't keep up. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 3 aims to cover pharmacists with mandatory OC insurance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 4 aims to ensure that knowledge of post-graduate education in pharmacy can be acquired. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 98 senators voted, 51 for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 5 is of a sequencing nature. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 94 for, 4 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 6 seeks to correct the repeal of the double rule. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 94 for, 4 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 7 corrects the syntax error. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 94 for, 4 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 8 aims to prevent the pharmacist from refusing to issue certain medicinal products and medical devices. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 9 aims to ensure terminology consistency in the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 95 for, 4 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 10. Note that Amendment 10 excludes voting on Amendment 11. Amendment 10 seeks to modify the conditions for withdrawal of the authorisation to operate a pharmacy. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 47 for, 46 against, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 11 was therefore excluded. Amendment 12 seeks to introduce a gradation of the severity of measures to be applied in the event of breaches of the rules on the marketing of medicinal products, only in the event of failure to remedy the deficiencies. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 93 for, 5 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 13 aims to correct the drafting of the criminal provision in the amended legal state. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 93 for, 4 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 51]] Amendments 14 and 15 should be voted on in total, with the aim of ensuring terminology consistency in the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 95 for, 4 against. [[Voting No 52]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 95 for, 1 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the pharmaceutical profession law. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Health Committee has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Law No 254-A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. If you don't mind... All amendments, from No 1 to No 7, are more precise, precise, editorial, standardising the terminology of the law. If the High Senate permits, we can vote them together. Therefore, we are voting together on Amendments 1 and 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has adopted a resolution on... [[Voice from the room: Not yet. Now the whole thing...]] Oh, excuse me. I'm sorry. We are therefore voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of certain laws supporting the development of housing. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Senate Print Act No 251 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. N.B.: Amendments 1, 6, 8 and 17 must be voted on together. These amendments harmonise the wording of the provisions authorising the competent minister to specify the forms. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in 51. [[Voting No 56]] Please note that amendments 5, 7, 19, 20, 21, 31, 39, 42, 45 must be voted in total. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 18 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 22 introduces a correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 23 shortens the period to be taken into account when determining the maintenance expenditure. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 24 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 25 aims to clarify the provision setting out the monetary penalty. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 26 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? There's one person on the remote that's missing something. And Senator Mammoth was kind enough not to vote. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 27 aims to remove the change in the definition of income within the meaning of the Family Benefits Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 28 introduces the correct reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 29 aims to extend financial support to cover the costs of a project involving the creation of housing as a result of renovation or reconstruction. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 30 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 31 was already voted out. Amendment 32 aims to raise 80% the financing from the Fund of the cost of the project to municipalities and inter-communal unions to cover part of the costs of building housing for rentals carried out by TBS or SIM. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 33 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 34 reduces the age of renovated buildings belonging to SIM or TBS from 25 to 20 years as eligible for the renovation premium. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 96 votes one senator. Against, no one held back. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 35 is intended to waive the condition that, in order to obtain a repair premium for the renovation of a multi-family building belonging to SIM or TBS on the date of the total repayment of the loan or repayment of the tenant at least 10% The premises located in this building must have agreements on participation in the construction costs of the premises. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 36 aims at supplementing the list of special purpose companies which may form KZN and the companies to which it may join. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 72]] N.B.: Amendments 37 and 38 should be voted together. These amendments are intended to extend the powers of the Supervisory Board to approve the applications of the President of KZN and to extend the scope of the proposals submitted for approval by the Supervisory Board in matters of legal activities other than disposal concerning real estate irrespective of its value. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Kopiczko? That's the second warning. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 73]] Amendments 40 and 41 are editorial. [[Voice from the room: You can't vote them together...]] Why can't we? They are editorial uniform. If the High Senate agrees, we will vote them together. Turn on the machine, please. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 74]] Amendments No 42.45 have already been voted on. After voting on all amendments, we proceed to vote on a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 75]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on State aid proceedings. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate print No 250 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 harmonises the terminology of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 2 ensures consistency in the use of shortcuts. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 77]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 78]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the proceedings in matters relating to State aid. We are returning to the 10th agenda: the Act on the Organisation of Farming and Animal Breeding. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for amendments to the Senate Act No 252 A. First, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution taken in full, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 eliminates unnecessary expression. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 79]] Amendment 2 aims to ensure that the reference in the provision is drawn up in accordance with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 80]] Amendment 3 extends the information obligation imposed on operators keeping the breeding book so that they also provide information on the amount of the fee for issuing the zootechnical certificate. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] Amendment 4 aims to ensure consistency of the rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] Amendment 5 aims at drafting a provision containing details in accordance with the requirements of the legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 83]] Attention, amendments 6 and 8 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 84]] Amendment 7 removes the provision specifying the marks of the offence, since the act would consist of a breach of the provisions of a non-normative document. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Someone from the remote... One senator... Please check. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 85]] Amendment 9 seeks to extend the scope of the Law amending the Act of 15 January 2015. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 10 aims to ensure consistency in the transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 87]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 88]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Organisation of Farming and Farming Animals. We would like to return to the 11th item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Feed. The session held a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 266 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee. [[Voice from the room: Remotely?]] Yeah, I can do it remotely, too. [[Can you do it now?]] You can, you can.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u239	On behalf of the committee, I would like to report on the feed law. Once again, we voted for the bill without amendment. I'm asking for his support.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-27-senat-18-3.u240	Thank you very much. In the course of the discussion, Senator Antoni Mężyłko also submitted a request. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendment tabled. We are voting on a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 89]] In the face of the rejection of an application for adoption of a law without amendment... [[Voice from the room: No, accepted...]] That's right. I'm so sorry. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Feed. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act on Senate Print No 253 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Amendment 1 corrects too narrow a reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 90]] Amendment 2 amends the wording of the transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 91]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 92]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We are returning to agenda item thirteen: the Law on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Culture and Media have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of the law without amendment of Senate prints No 244 A and 244 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 93]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001. We return to agenda item fourteen: the Act on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 241 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 94]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016. We return to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by nationals of one State residing in the territory of the other State, signed in Warsaw on 29 May 2020. The Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 242 A, 242 B and 242 C. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 95]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by nationals of one State residing in the territory of the other State, signed in Warsaw on 29 May 2020. We return to agenda item 16: Law on ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 243 A and 243 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 96]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Act on local taxes and charges. I would like to remind you that a report on the draft law was presented to the committee today before the adjournment and that a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 247 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law presented by the committees on amending the Act on local taxes and charges and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 45 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 97]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on local taxes and charges and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. I'm currently managing a technical recess until 11:00 p.m. At the same time, I ask the Senior Convention to meet me in my office. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 37 to 23 minutes 00]] Ladies and gentlemen, as the legislative work on point seven will take at least 1.00 hours, and it is not known whether this will be the case, I declare a recess until tomorrow, by 10.00 a.m. There will only be a vote on point seven. Only that you should focus on the fact that they will take a few hours, because the votes will be over 200, even though the committees are trying to block some of the amendments. Time-out till tomorrow, 10:00 a.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 23 minutes 01]]
