ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - National and Ethnic Minorities - hour. 10, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - Public Finance - hour. 12.30, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 13, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 13, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 13, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 13, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 5:30 p.m., - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 18, - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u2	Thank you, sir. We have formal requests before moving on to the items on the agenda. As the first Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm so glad your marshal got to us because it's really important. Respect for the High House needs to be saved because the Prime Minister does not publish a law that has really been passed. [[Applause]] October 28th. The president signed... Thieves. ...this bill on November 3rd. People are losing money. Someone who makes $2,000. zł per month, already loses 1 000. zł per month for these two weeks, and you - nothing. It's like a coup d'état. Sejm, Senate, [[Applause]] And there's nothing going on here. The president signed, and the Prime Minister says, "Nothing, I won't do it to you, I won't publish." Well, it's on its head. Your Marshal, this requires a firm response from the Marshal of the Sejm to force the Prime Minister to publish this bill immediately. You've guarded the Sejm today, you've made the Sejm's stronghold, but the fences won't be enough for you, because people who are pissed off will come after you. Nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists, miners, carriers, drivers... Scandal! ...restaurators - everyone will come for you and these fences from all over Europe will not be enough for you. You know what the street sings about you, you know what people say about you. All you have to do is listen. This is not a formal proposal, Mr President. And I say politely to you: publish and flee quickly. And we really need a two-hour break -- I'm filing for a recess -- Prime Minister, because you are the Deputy Prime Minister, and you can make this bill public. Because people are waiting for these laws, for the money, and for all that's passed there. It's a good bill, do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u4	Thank you, sir. There was a request for a recess. To the contrary, Mr Schreiber. This isn't a recess request. There it is, there it is. Please, Mr Łukasz Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I would like to inform the opposition's representative that this coup, as you said, is based on the rules that arose in the days of Prime Minister Tusk. That's not true, that's not true. Ha, ha, ha! So that on the basis of these regulations, the Government Legislative Center has the right time to publish... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. I ask you to remain calm, my fellow Member. But don't let him lie. Don't yell at the jury. Please, ma'am. But you don't want to listen, as usual. You guys can... That's embarrassing. ...just scream. I would like to inform you that, on the basis of the rules that have just arisen during the time of your government... Like what? ...this time to publish... What kind of regulations? ...is defined and he will be kept. That's one thing. Second... What kind of regulations? ...the state knows exactly what happened... Tusk's fault. ...you know perfectly well that you've made a change at the Senate level, which doesn't just cause... Like us? You. ...destroying the budget, but causing... You voted. ...unfair treatment. Supplements for doctors were already paid at the initiative of the Minister of Health (the Bell). And this is all happening, and your screams and your behavior... Thank you very much, sir. ...this is unfortunately, once again, a lack of responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u6	Thank you, sir. We have a motion, ladies and gentlemen. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if every request for any information is to continue with such screams, then I do not know if it is rational. Then don't let the minister lie. Member, but don't argue with me from the benches. Please don't yell at me. There was a request for a recess, we are voting on this proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Marshal, this is your time to react to this matter. I'll talk to you in a minute about my reaction, sir. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 214 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Before we proceed with the second formal proposal, I would like to inform you that yesterday before the hour. 21 requests were received, among others. the Prime Minister's information on this issue, as well as the government's position towards the EU budget for the coming years. This information was not on the agenda, but I spoke with the Prime Minister, and I told him that such requests had been received. The Prime Minister will want to perform on this matter tomorrow morning, both in the morning. It's to explain to you what I've done. In which one and the other? Your Marshal, tell me about this publication. I said, sir, you didn't listen. Just a moment ago, I said that the Prime Minister will speak in the Sejm tomorrow morning. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are truly going to achieve much more with peace than with screaming at each other, so don't shout out. What about the publication? Mr President, this is the third time I have told you. If you don't understand, I won't do it again for the fourth time. I've only twice... The Prime Minister will speak on this matter tomorrow morning. Here you go, the next formal motion... But just one question. Mr President, not now. Will that be information? No. I said - and you did not listen - that these requests for information were not taken into account, but the Prime Minister will take the floor. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No. Your Marshal... Sir, please... But you have current questions. Ask them. With a formal application. No, sir, please get out of here. The formal proposals are here, sir. In what mode? But you can't turn yourself in? Not here. Please report to the secretariat. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since 6 October, the government has had a new position: Deputy Prime Minister for Security Affairs. It is difficult to say that during this month our security, the safety of Poles has increased somehow. We were dealing with violent protests by women caused by the Law and Justice Party, and then we were dealing with a completely absurd performance by Prime Minister Kaczyński, who urged his supporters to go out on the street and fight. The measure of responsibility, including a public official, is that he can predict the consequences of his words. Here's the reason. And that's the result. [[Applause]] The direct result of the speech by Jarosław Kaczyński was pictures that we saw on the streets in Warsaw. I ask for a break, the convening of the Senior Convention and supplementing the agenda for the information of Prime Minister Morawiecki on the state's state of security since Jarosław Kaczyński, who is responsible for what happened in Warsaw. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u8	Thank you, sir. Mr President, the request for a break has already been made, so I will not repeat it again. I would like to inform you once again that this information has not been taken into account. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing you started with the fact that there's gonna be information. There will be no information. I trust your marshal is telling the truth. The speech by the Prime Minister in the House before the European Council on the budget is not only a responsibility to this House, but also a question of responsibility to Poles and Poles. 103 billion zlotys that we can lose because there will be no budget and there will be a commission. Weto is stealing from every Polish woman and every Pole from money, it is a lack of money for infrastructure and above all - for health care. You promised on vacation you'd fight the pandemic. We promised we'd settle you. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the result of the truth about what is happening today in Poland: 15 thousand. More deaths only in October, 43%. This information from the Prime Minister, Minister Niedzielski We just deserve it. No more lying and cheating. The truth will set everyone free. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause that's 15 grand. People... Thank you very much. Mr President, this was not a formal proposal. ...this is a punishment for not preparing for a pandemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u10	Thank you, sir. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation. There you go. Robert, have Grzegorz wear the mask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the session be adjourned until noon. 14, so that the Prime Minister can prepare at that time to speak in the High House's forum on the key issue that is most important today for the future of Poland. During the summer, the Prime Minister deceived Poles, agreeing to a mechanism which today will be among others. was used by Brussels to force respect for homo-adoption in Poland. He agreed to the mechanism which Poland will be blackmailed and terrorized, and should explain to Poles how he is going to bring Poland out of this situation now. Ladies and gentlemen! Asia is the largest area in the world, a zone, free trade, which Poland is not interested in... We're in Europe. ...with whom she's not interested. As a state today, we have to answer the question of whether we want to be a middleman richer in trade between the East and the West (The Bell), whether we want to be an economic colony... Thank you very much, sir. ...political, ideological Western. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u12	Thank you, sir. A formal request was made to adjourn the sitting until noon. 14. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting until 3 p.m. 14, he'll want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 82 for, 340 against, 19 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday we had the opportunity to hear during the press conference the statement by Minister Adam Niedzielski that we should all smile in Poland, because the epidemic situation is at least stabilizing. Ladies and gentlemen! Data analysis shows that in October most Poles died since the end of World War II, since 1945. It is not appropriate in this situation for the constitutional minister responsible for health to speak in the manner that happened yesterday. This statement of yesterday's delusion was similar to that of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who called off the epidemic in July. What were the consequences, we all know. Therefore, Marshal, today I am asking for a break, to invite Minister Niedzielski to explain these scandalous words yesterday, which can again have very far-reaching and harmful consequences for the health of Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]] But you have current information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u14	Thank you, sir. We have already voted on the request for a recess, also to postpone the session of the Sejm. So I will not put him to the vote. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u15	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I expect your marshal to announce a break on his own initiative so that Minister Schreiber does not mislead the High House about the publication of the bill. [[Applause]] Because what Minister Schreiber said is not true. Please examine in the Sejm Chancellery, in what time the laws signed by the President of the Republic of Poland are announced. In this context, the whole truth will sound. There can be no voice from the High House that there are any doubts regarding the publication of this law. You are responsible, as Mr Kropiwnicki said, for the publication of this law. It's not right, it's not right for the High House to lie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The honourable Member is not...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u16	Thank you, Member. It wasn't a formal conclusion. You know exactly that. And the last... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir. Please, the last formal proposal, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased, on the one hand, by the words of the Marshal, that Prime Minister Morawiecki would dare to come to this House and tell about two appalling situations: firstly, the failure to publish the legal act, which is the law adopted by the Sejm and signed by the President. What about the Constitutional Court judgment? But the second important point is whether the Prime Minister will be able to debate and inform the government about what is happening in relations with the European Union. Your Marshal, you just said that the Prime Minister would not take advantage of this opportunity. But there is no way that the Prime Minister comes and makes statements. Or your marshal takes the High House seriously. [[Applause]] and put the President of the Council of Ministers' information on the agenda tomorrow, or we are carrying out an order that will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. 9 provides for a committee report on the amendment of the Law on Departments. Don't do the High House circus again. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. This is a serious place and I expect information from the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u18	Mr President, listen to me. Please, Mr Budka... Marshal, I'll listen from my seat. First of all, I explained it to you. Information, placing information on the agenda is one of the marshals. That information wasn't there. I spoke to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, you either want to explain or you don't want to. Well, think about it. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Then listen to me, sir, as I say. Otherwise, I understand you don't want any explanation. Boris doesn't understand. But what's with the nerves, Marshal? These aren't nerves, but, ladies and gentlemen, please don't argue with me from the jury. Mr President, once again, I am explaining. The Prime Minister, as Prime Minister, has the right to speak in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at any time, and you know this very well. Furthermore, yesterday at the Convention meeting and at the Bureau meeting, I said that this session of the Sejm would not last for two days, but for three days. Tomorrow there will be an adjournment because we are waiting for two senate drafts of laws that come from the Senate, tax projects that must be published and adopted by 30 November. So we're gonna have to meet on Friday. That's where... But we're not waiting, they're still in the Seym. Member, are you still trying to talk to me like that? Because you're misleading me. But we have no other option. It's like we're gonna... Come to my office. I would like to invite you to speak with me, my fellow Member. The office is open, please. [[Game in the O.R.]] As this is a three-day session of the Sejm... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I have not said, Mr President - and please do not put this in my mouth - that the Prime Minister has refused this or that there will be no such information. Maybe it'll be Friday, after that. Tomorrow, before the European Council, the Prime Minister will speak. I think it's up to you. Thank you very much. That concludes the examination of formal applications. Your Marshal, I've made a formal request for what you've said... Do you want to argue with me or do you want to file a formal motion? What's the point? What do you want to file a formal application for? What? Concerning the change in the way in which proceedings are held.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u19	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I ask for a break and a change in the way the proceedings are conducted, because we expect from you marshals a reaction, a response to what is happening, what the Prime Minister of the Polish Government is doing. It cannot be that you do not answer Members' questions. What was the reaction of the Sejm marshals to the fact that there were unpublished laws? There can be no answer to the fact that the Prime Minister may say something tomorrow. [[Applause]] The Sejm is a control body, it controls the government. The Sejm has the right to demand an explanation from the government. If the Marshal of the Sejm does not stand up for Parliament, he is actually losing his ability to run this parliament. [[Applause]] President Kaczyński, you are replacing Prime Minister Morawiecki, please have the courage to leave and tell us what you intend to do with the bill voted by the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]] This is a bill that gives money to doctors. Don't you want to give money to doctors in a pandemic? You really don't want to? You guys want to give yourselves money? Shame. [[Applause]] You're robbing doctors.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u20	This is not a formal conclusion. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them (prints Nos 704 and 709). Art. 231 Criminal Code. The Prime Minister wanted to speak. I ask Mrs Ursula Rusecka to submit a report to the committee. Art. 231 Criminal Code. Three years in prison. Failure to comply with duty.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was honoured to present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, in print No 709, on the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, in print No 704. Marshal of the Sejm according to... Excuse me, missy, I'm just gonna lower the podium. ...the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on 27 October 2020 to carry out its first reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 27 October 2020, unanimously requests the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft. The bill is very much awaited by entrepreneurs whose activities have been most affected by the effects of measures to counter the pandemic. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for their substantive and concerted work in the committee on this project. The unanimous support of this project is proof of this. I hope that, at today's committee meeting, we will continue to work on this project calmly and substantively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u22	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Teras Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The project is included in print No 704 and the report in print No 709. High Izbo! The proposed law amends the Law of 2 March 2020 with the same title. Already on the threshold of the development of the pandemic, the government has presented and the High House has adopted a number of measures to protect the economy. In spring, entrepreneurs received several forms of support. The aid was not differentiated, did not depend on the PKD code, and the criterion of the drop in income was relatively low thanks to the aid, which could reach all companies, small, medium and large. We have maintained the potential of the Polish economy, as evidenced by Eurostat's results. For example, in the third quarter GDP fell only . 1.6% and industrial production in September year-to-year amounts to 3.3%. These are among the best indicators in Europe. According to the Ministry of Labour, by 30 October the total amount of support for employees and employers is almost PLN 150 billion. This amount is unprecedented. 17.5 billion went to the salary of more than 4 million employees. Another 17 billion amounted to redundancies and reductions in social security contributions. Parking benefits worth a total of PLN 5 billion and PLN 9 billion were paid for loans to micro-entrepreneurs. The objectives that have been adopted have been achieved. The companies have maintained their business and we have defended 5 million jobs. We now have the task of supporting those sectors that are particularly affected by the crisis and the restrictions imposed. Hence the submission in print No 704. This submission concerns the extension of the application, as you know, of the instruments already tested for the following months. Given the need to take into account the current knowledge of the development of the pandemic, it may take months, the possibility of payment of these benefits is until June 2021, with the President of the Council of Ministers, depending on the epidemic status and the restrictions imposed, being entitled to extend the payment of these benefits. The proposals, which are in the print project No.704, were consulted with associations of entrepreneurs and employers and with the Federation of Polish Entrepreneurs. It was the employers who reported further sectors to help in this consultation. And yes, support for dozens of industries, mainly in the services sector, is another 2 billion PLN of aid for entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen! I address the Members and the Committee on Social Policy. I'm sure your e-mails also come with further requests, requests to extend the scope of the law. We've got another committee job ahead of us. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice amends the bill by listening to the voices of the applicants. I think other clubs will also report amendments, as a result of the discussion. Law and Justice supports the submission of a print project No 704 and we will continue to work on the extension of aid to entrepreneurs and workers. Thank you very much. I'm making an amendment. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u24	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to ask Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Pants in dots, ho ho ho ho ho. It could be a government anthem for people in need. If only the entrepreneur who wore these panties had received support. Unfortunately, the only money the government announced was for the king of disco polo. On 27 October, a big press conference was held on aid to entrepreneurs. And then what happened? You put the bill on the family committee. The committee was investigating. And then? Then you canceled the Sejm meeting. For three weeks, you didn't care about people, their dramas, their bankruptcy. In the meantime, you've shut down all of Poland. You've shut down more industries from day to day. It's been days. People were losing their jobs. They didn't have anything to put in the pot. That's the way it is today. And you just didn't have a coalition going on, a club was falling apart, and President Kaczyński panicked that his own club wouldn't support the presidential abortion bill, wouldn't let the Sejm sit down. Entrepreneurs and employees are waiting. And you in closed offices for three weeks had your political games. I remember a protest before November 1st in front of this building. There I met a young man, 28 years old, who, with tears in his eyes, said that he had great commitments that he couldn't pay back, but hoped that there would be some help for him in this bill you presented. So? He didn't have it for three weeks, he couldn't really count on any help. The only thing he heard from the Deputy Minister of Finance - from the Deputy Minister at his age, from Mr. Deputy Minister Patkowski - is that it is possible to change. How to change? What, bus drivers are supposed to change into funeral caravan drivers? Because it's the easiest thing today. You don't have any decency. You're playing with people's lives and laughing at the hardworking ones. It wasn't until three weeks later that you agreed that the Sejm should be held. And what are you going to tell the owner of the coach company today, the tour pilot or the entrepreneurs from the trade fair, the event industry who didn't get on your shield? After all, when it comes to PKD, which you included in this bill, there is really no help for them and there is nothing for them to apply for. What will you tell the people who started the companies this year, in 2020 or in December 2019? That they're not gonna get help, either? Because you didn't include them in this bill either. Another thing. Why do you give the possibility to suspend contributions only in November, and this suspension is not foreseen in October or even December? Will the pandemic end in December? Well, it won't end in December. Another thing. Why are you shutting down the different industries every day? Why don't you give them the opportunity to prepare for this closure? I do not know why this is happening, but it would be possible for this time, these three weeks, to recite the list of purchases that the Prime Minister has made. That's for example. LED screen for 0.5 million, 308 new limos, protection for Kurski's colleague, finally a real rarity - tons of exquisite meat straight from Italy and pounds of quail eggs. And you've actually done it for three weeks. High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I can say one thing: such a bill as has been presented to the High House is simply unacceptable. The Civic Coalition therefore makes a number of amendments. The aim is to ensure that this project, firstly, applies to all those who have set up their companies also in 2020 so that the suspension of contributions takes place from October to December and that if the pandemic period continues - and will continue - the government must extend this possibility. Another thing. The point is not to ignore many industries, such as carriers, tour pilots, tour guides. Why can't you see them at all? Why are you sharing entrepreneurs? You can't just do that. They all lost at the closure of their industries and today they really have nothing to put in the proverbial pot, stand before the spectrum of dismissals and closure of their own businesses. Actually, that's what's going on, 'cause you guys have really wasted three weeks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's hard to understand why. Perhaps because you do not experience such situations yourself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u26	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Przemysław Koperski, who will present the position of the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Deputy Minister of Finance Piotr Patkowski proposed to entrepreneurs who painfully feel the effects of the pandemic of Coronavirus and lack of sufficient action by the government of Mateusz Morawiecki to change. I recommend you change your mind. Just a month or two internships in a taxi, in a florist, as a tourist guide or a restaurant - maybe after such a life lesson you will find some levels of empathy and humility. You don't understand the role of the state. The state is to help its citizens. Do not rule out, not divide into better and worse. Your separation from reality is ruining Poland. You have no idea how to fight a pandemic, you've slept through your vacation. Instead of building a support system during your vacation, you're now building temporary hospitals with several months of delay. It must be national to make it sound better when you tweet, greeting each patient separately. You're secreting COVID-19 data, and the only available database for Coradine you're using is the one created by Michał Rogalski, a 19-year-old from Torun. We're asking you to exit the alternate reality and return to Earth. Another, already sixth, anti-crisis shield, another gargomelisation of the law and a subsequent attempt at at least partial support for entrepreneurs. In fact, it's more of a PR procedure aimed at creating the appearance that the Polish government is helping everyone. We appreciate any form of help. However, looking at the state of public finances, the policy of governing and determining the scope of the actors to whom you are helping, I fear that in the creation of the seventh shield you will have only prayer to offer to Poles and Poles. It is sad, because maybe if the government had not been involved in organizing elections for 70 million, celebrating the success of the defeat of Coronavirus by the Prime Minister, while he was preparing for the fall second wave, the situation would have looked a little better and the laws as important as this one today would not have been written on the knee, and entrepreneurs would not have had to waste time finding themselves in the thicket of regulations and begging the government, Members and all the saints for rescue and assistance to their own companies. Shield 6.0 is another bill aimed at supporting entrepreneurs, but most of the project will not be able to benefit from this aid. Several dozen industries, tens of thousands of companies were excluded from the next shield, without a word of justification or explanation. These are tour pilots, mountain guides and guides, catering, agrotourism, floralism, fairs, whose revenues fell by 50% compared to the previous year, people running school shops, dance schools, transport companies transporting children to schools or sports classes, taxi drivers, entrepreneurs running small sports and swimming shops, who also cannot count on any state aid. A wave of debt, bankruptcy, closure of many companies is just beginning. Micro- and small entrepreneurs didn't even catch a little breath after the first wave of pandemic, and during the second they get concrete shoes from the Prime Minister Morawiecki's government and Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński, still unable to count on financial aid. No, they don't count on the help that Deputy Prime Minister Gliński offered to the Bayer Full team. Excluded and forgotten by the government, entrepreneurs would like fair support from the Polish state. Prime Minister! Please answer the following questions: Why is it planned to help only certain industries? Why is this only true for companies that recorded a 40% decrease between October and November 2020 compared to the same month of the previous year? Why are companies that started this year, before the outbreak of the pandemic, deprived of this possibility? Why can most applications be submitted only in electronic form? What about a few entrepreneurs who have no knowledge or equipment? I have a lot of questions, but I would like to move on to the amendments. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I make the following amendments. We propose that maximum margins can also be established in the case of sales of goods or services which are essential for the cost of doing business. This would make it possible to determine the maximum margins used by food ordering platforms to protect the interests of catering establishments. Today, when we feel the effects of lockdown, foreign companies such as Uber Eats, Volt or Yushne.pl record record profits. We propose that the sectors you disfellowshipped be included in the provisions of the law. These include: passenger taxis, other passenger land transport, tourist accommodation facilities and short-stay accommodation, food preparation and delivery, catering, out-of-school forms of education, dance schools, other training industries, rental and leasing of other personal and household goods, rental and leasing of other machinery, equipment and material goods, activities of travel agents, tourism intermediaries, tour operators, tour operators, nutritionists, retail sales in non-specialised stores with the advantage of food, beverages, school shops (Dawn), retail sale of flowers, plants, seeds - the remaining three amendments - the activities of other transport agencies, advertising agencies including services for construction of stands. In line with the opinion of OPZZ, we also propose to maintain the current principle that applications for subsidies for remuneration of workers may be submitted no later than 30 days after the date of cancellation of the epidemic or epidemic. At the same time, the amendment complements the text of the amended Article. 15gh applications referred to in Article. 15ga, as in the text proposed in the committee's report. As you can see, the parliamentary club Left has a number of comments and doubts about the submitted project, but in principle we support any form of aid addressed to Polish entrepreneurs. However, we ask on their behalf to stop dividing entrepreneurs into better and worse and to vote in favour of our amendments extending the catalogue of entrepreneurs entitled to receive aid. Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much for letting me finish my speech. I am making amendments to the parliamentary club of the Left. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u28	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Ścigaj will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u29	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Coalition club in relation to the present law, the shield No. 6, which undoubtedly waited too long for its legislation, because in fact entrepreneurs who were waiting for this state aid, immediately receive the reminders, interest, many of these entrepreneurs are already in debt for this moment. But okay, let's get to the point. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think there's any doubt that there's a massive economic crisis ahead of us, and I don't think there's any doubt about who's gonna have to pull us out of this crisis. Entrepreneurs. They will pay taxes, they will create jobs, they will be the ones we need to have education, health care, social assistance, everything that the state should provide to its citizens. They're gonna pay the taxes. That's why you mustn't, absolutely not, butcher a horse that will pull us out of the mud. And we should really first and very quickly process laws that will help companies stay on the market. We waited three weeks. But okay, let's get to the point. Does this bill really help entrepreneurs? It contains some forms of assistance, but I will return because we want to talk substantively, as you said, to the proposals that were in spring. These proposals were quite well assessed by entrepreneurs, most of the entrepreneurs who consulted the records indicated this, and should be a return to these proposals. We're not allowed to share entrepreneurs. The bill contains specific PKD. Ladies and gentlemen! The economy is a connected vessel system. If we close restaurants, laundry doesn't work, cleaning company doesn't work, floristics and advertising has problems. If we close hotels, pilots, guides, tourism, souvenir shops have problems too. You can't choose specific industries. The only good and fair criterion was the criterion of a decline in revenue, but by 20%, as the entrepreneurs claim, because many companies, including trade, live primarily on a 2 ¢3-percent margin. If their income falls by 20% or 40% In fact, they're already in debt. That's not good enough because it's not a profit criterion, that's what an entrepreneur doesn't make money out of. Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish Coalition is making amendments, a series of amendments that will really improve this law. We're ready to work on it. The first amendment concerns the abolition of the PCD criterion. This is a far-reaching amendment. [[Applause]] The PKD criterion divides entrepreneurs, but does not indicate all who really need this help. A criterion of only 20% of income is needed. That'll be a fair criterion. No one who hasn't suffered a pandemic will take illegal money. Those companies whose revenues have fallen have suffered, and they will be looking for this money. The second amendment, which is extremely important, which is advocated by entrepreneurs, is called for by entrepreneurs from Krakow, which is why I am especially addressing your Deputy Prime Minister Gowin, on whom all organizations are addressing, concerns the transfer of the burden of sickness payment, but also the absence of work due to the quarantine of the employee to the Social Security Office, because it is a huge burden. We're really gonna start losing jobs because there are no employees, and the employer has serious and heavy costs. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, may I ask you to allow me to speak with you? Thank you. Thank you, Marshal. Therefore, it is worth listening to the voice of entrepreneurs. I don't know where that bill was consulted, really. Over the past few months, the coalition... Member, wait a minute. This isn't a phone caller. I ask Members to leave the room and finish the conversation there. [[Applause]] We're talking about it right now. On the phone? Now we're listening to the speech. Yeah, with the secretariat. Thank you, Marshal. (PL) Madam President, I would like to ask you a few questions. We'll probably continue this conversation at the committee meeting. I would like to present all the detailed amendments, because if you do not want to accept the amendment that meets the expectations of entrepreneurs and really abolishes the PKD criterion... Of course, we added, listening to the voices, those industries that were thrown out. If we are talking about restaurants, why are companies that provide catering to support centres that have been closed down, schools that have been closed down, different forms or workplaces that have not functioned, excluded? After all, these companies have practically zero income. If we are talking about after-school education, after-school sports education has been included, but for example, it has been forgotten. About art education, which wasn't happening either. So this series of PKDs, which may have escaped Members in such a rapid process as we have dealt with... And entrepreneurs are knocking on our door and talking, just like the pilots mentioned in the tour or the guides or coach companies, which absolutely do not have any revenue in this tourism industry, because tourism did not exist. If we close hotels, at the same time we deprive the entire business that is around these hotels. That must really be understood, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So as far as these amendments are concerned, we are hoping for a serious discussion, to take these amendments into account. Coalition Poland will always stand on the side of entrepreneurs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u30	Thank you very much, Member. I would now like to ask Mr Grzegorz Braun, who will present the position of the Female Confederation Circle. But he doesn't have a mask, Marshal. Marshal, will you respond to the mask? Mr. Marshal? Mask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u31	God bless you! And by the way... Mr Grzegorz Braun, I may answer questions. And he's doing his thing again. Mask. This aspect, sir, has two dimensions. First, legal. And Mr. Grzegorz Braun takes advantage of the fact that the bill in which he is ordered to wear masks is not published, here he claims to be Prime Minister Morawiecki. [[Applause]] There is also a second aspect - responsibility and mutual respect. And this is where I refer to Mr. Grzegorz Braun... He doesn't respect us. ...with a request to wear a mask. Thank you very much, Marshal. Let's respect each other, yes, let's respect each other. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, although our hopes are weak, we appeal to intellect, not to emotion, let us refer to facts... Tell that to Dziambor. ...not to be misinformed. Let us try to use a thought workshop, avoid unauthorized conclusions. Socialist rhetoric. Let us not build huge structures, based on facts which, yes, are empirically verifiable, but in a broader statistical sense they do not give reason or right to draw lessons from them concerning legal and administrative issues, the victims of which are Polish entrepreneurship, Polish employers and employers. A false pandemic - before me I am the second volume of this study, which I highly recommend to you. The second volume is primarily devoted to PCR tests, which, as you know, do not really test anything. It's worth referring to the facts. It's a fake pandemic. The criticism of scientists and doctors - note that not politicians and storytellers. We, on the other hand, are deeply immersed in the fumes of absurdity. This is the new Marxism-Leninism, ladies and gentlemen. This is a debate about fixing by means of successive patches, which you call shields. We are rather inclined to call them concrete rescue wheels throwing Polish entrepreneurship. Further patches - successive instalments, discretionary distribution, which further, as is apparent from the statements of my venerable previous speakers, divides, suggests, and thus introduces forms of apartheid in Polish entrepreneurship, antagonizes social groups, age groups and professional groups. All of this takes place in a situation where the dogma, which is at the heart of destructive activity, is denied, not in the sphere of medically defined phenomena, but in the destructive activity of the government of the Republic of Poland, which would not have to help so much if it finally ceased to harm. We, the Confederation, of course, advise that we free the nation from quarantine, advise that we implement the slogan: no more lockdown, release entrepreneurship, as well as activities, social activity also in the field of medicine, health care. You just have to depoliticize the treatment, you have to keep your patients out of the way of contact with your doctor. It's very simple, you have to let people live, manage, earn, provide services, consume. You have to let people live normal lives. We, as far as we are concerned, would free the Poles, as well as the visitors who found themselves in our territory, from these illegal, illegal so-called ones. sharpenings, which are a burden and put a terrible shadow on Polish economic, cultural and religious life. We can't do that, which is why we're making amendments to the next bill. We patch this latin, we try to corrode what you are in this madness of Marxism-Leninism of our times. Szumowski and Niedzielski are Miczurin and Łysenko of our time, political quacks who unfortunately have spokespersons in people who are at the head of the nation today. Mr. Marshal! Please accept these amendments (the bell). Please also accept a copy of this book. These are mainly texts translated from foreign languages, among others. the committee that was created beyond our western border, the social committee of inquiry on these matters. It's a fake pandemic. The criticism of scientists and doctors. I'm more interested in corrections. Complicated.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u32	Complicated. Thank you very much, sir. [[Applause]] I close the list of Members who have signed up for the question. There are 47 of them. The first question will be asked by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u33	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a few friendly words to Mr Braun. I have a request, sir. Freedom is not freedom, freedom is also wisdom and responsibility. That's why I'm asking you to wear a mask. You may not be afraid of the virus, you may not even recognize it, but wearing a mask also serves to protect your neighbor. The Lord speaks so much about the Lord God, the love of God and neighbor. This is an expression of contemporary love for neighbor. That's what I'd ask, it doesn't cost anything. You are right about the economics - we must be protected from lockdown. This mask protects us from him. If we'd all been wearing it before, she would have protected us from lockdown. This is a friend's request. It's the voice of common sense that's not directed against you, but it's calling for you not to have another fake news and stupidity. Today, more than 600 deaths were reported due to COVID-19. Yesterday, Minister Niedzielski said to smile a little. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a mockery of families, of the sick, of all those who suffer. No more mockery in the economy as well. No more mockery, which causes us to come to a situation where not the amount of losses caused by the koravirus will be decisive when it comes to providing assistance, but selected groups of PKD. Hence our amendment, which says that those who have lost - open or closed, restricted or a little easier - all those who have lost because of Coronavirus are to receive aid from the state. Entrepreneurs this is the salt of this land, this is the salt of our homeland. We could always count on them: when it was hard, when we had to raise money for social services, save health care, they always counted off. Today the Polish Republic must count against entrepreneurs, save the economy, save jobs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u34	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Adrian Zandberg, the Left. In correction mode, Mr. Marshal. There will be time for correction. Take your seat, sir. When he comes, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u35	High Izbo! The government says he'd like to help gastronomy, so we have a practical proposal to do that. For these little diners, orders from the Internet have now become the last resort. The problem is that the supply market has mastered several predatory international corporations and these intermediaries are taking huge commissions. Little ones agree to it because they have virtually no choice. You just have to call it openly - that's exploitation. The exploitation is when a strong uses a weak one, and that's exactly the story we're dealing with. Now, in the pandemic, it's just that this market is feral. The State can protect gastronomy from international corporations, it simply has to set maximum margins for intermediaries. It's a rule that works locally in Philadelphia, works locally in San Francisco, works locally in New York, and there's nothing stopping us from introducing it to us. This solution, which we are proposing, is budget neutral, it does not cost the state budget or the zloty, but I would like to say honestly: (The bell) will have to stand up to some powerful people, so prepare yourself spiritually that if we accept it, Mrs Mosbacher will call you again and you will have to be able to tell her not to. I would remind you that Americans themselves are introducing this solution locally at this point, so maybe this will give you the courage that the government has long been lacking in relations with the US embassy. Anyway, the amendment is ready, we put it on a plate, we give it to the government for free, without commission, just bring it in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u36	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke to ask a question, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the question: Is the government aware of what it is doing? Well, it's not COVID that's causing the loss, it's the government's actions that cause the loss. In order to remedy this, the government draws money from people, that is, it prints money, it's issue tax, and hands it over to some people who have suffered losses. So that's how the government works, but fixing its own mistakes. I wanted to point out that I said somewhere in March that it is important to do something completely different: it is important that older people like me, sick people and others be isolated and do not do any lockdown so that people become immune, young people will get through this disease because they will get through it - whether the government realizes that everyone will get through this disease anyway - and then the virus will not be able to spread. It wasn't done. Does the government realize it's too late for everything right now? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u38	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Robert Winnicki of the Confederation. If he is absent, this is the moment when Mr Grzegorz Braun can make his correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u39	Thank you very much, Marshal. There is no President who would be the recipient of this correction, but the Marshal has the shortest way to make a hot request not to join this media manipulation, which is to indicate this tragic harvest, this terrible dividend of deaths, statistically recorded on the horrible, monstrous, highest since the end of World War II, of presenting this harvest of death as the result of a supposed pandemic. These are the things that independent analysts, researchers, have been predicting, said that closure, blocking by the authority of the healthcare system must unfortunately lead to such consequences. Here are the people undiagnosed in time, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Those who didn't get proper therapy didn't get to the doctor in spring, summer and fall, now they're dying. This is a tragic harvest, but let us not go further into this Marxism and Pandemic Leninism, in which it is repaired with great effort to correct errors, fight against distortions caused by absurd preconceptions. Thank you very much. Open the economy, open medicine to patients. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u40	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Robert Winnicki. Mr Jakub Rutnicki will be next.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is November, and since March we have not seen a debate in this House about the various strategies of behaviour towards Coronavirus and the model that a country in the area of the economy or health care system should adopt. I note that this is not only an example of Sweden, but an example of such countries and a comparison of countries such as Argentina and Brazil. These neighbouring South American countries have adopted quite different models: the lockdown Argentine model and the open Brazilian model and today have almost identical results in terms of mortality related to COVID-19. It is simply that these strategies do not change much when it comes to the spread and mortality of the victims of the virus, and that is something that we should debate, not on the next billion losses, on the next closed industries and on the next sick people who die not only because of Coronavirus, but because of the closure of the health system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u42	Thank you very much. Now I ask Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is really no main character here responsible for the fact that the aid that entrepreneurs expect should have been implemented long ago. But it is Jarosław Kaczyński who is responsible for stopping this bill because it is not important to him how to help entrepreneurs, how to run more shields and money. More important was the question of political agreement and whether PiS has the majority in the Polish Sejm. Gastronomy has been closed for almost a month, fitness clubs are also closed in part, and PiS does nothing about it. I just wanted to ask you about the fitness business, because it's almost 100,000. jobs, a very modern industry. The Civic Coalition makes amendments that meet this specific industry, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is the issue of repayment of loans, rents or leases. And a great appeal, I say this on behalf of the representatives of these companies, to take these amendments into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u44	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Paweł Papke, the Civic Coalition. He's quitting. If not, now I ask Mrs Marta Wcisło.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I wish you were here. This bill isn't about business support, it's about support. Every day the government closed hundreds of thousands of Polish companies without any help. It's like Russian roulette: no one knew who was gonna get the shot that he wasn't gonna pick up. 'Cause without help, ladies and gentlemen, some of the companies aren't gonna get up. Is that what this was about? Polish entrepreneurs, restaurants, traders, fitness industry, carriers and everyone you have closed down have been waiting for weeks for help that is not there. But the government does propaganda according to the principle: the operation went well, the help is, only the patient didn't make it. Is that what this is about? Ladies and gentlemen, this patient cannot be Polish companies, their employees and their families. There's no permission to do that. Prime Minister! Polish entrepreneurs [[♪ The bell ♪]] They're waiting for help. I ask: Where is the promised aid for Polish companies that you have closed down, for everyone, including those that you did not include in this aid? Because there's no help in this bill, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u46	The question will now be asked by Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government's chaotic decisions led to another, at least a partial freeze of the economy. It's another freeze, let's face it, it's gonna ruin already weak public finances. The worst is, however, the chaos that accompanies it, because we all really want to limit the disease, but we want the government to do it in any rational way. What are you doing? You close the cemeteries a few hours before 1 November, you close the trade in November and December, which is really during the harvest months, although in galleries the movement is still small, and the sharpenings are large. You're shutting down the gyms because they have low ceilings, as we hear, gastronomy, although the gastronomy points weren't some major broadcast fire that would appear in the statistics. Now we hear that you want to close the mountain slopes for winter. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that true, Minister, and when you begin to really manage the economy rationally in times of pandemic? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u48	Thank you. The question will be asked by Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a member of the Sejm Committee on Health from the very beginning, I have been actively involved in the work on legislation aimed at reducing the effects of the spread of the COVID-19 epidemic. Last Tuesday, as a guest of the program, the eighth episode of TVP Info, Minister Olga Semeniuk, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, has accused the opposition, including me, that I am not involved in helping to combat the epidemic. In view of this allegation made by a public official on the same day, I sent the Minister an e-mail with a specific request, and I repeated the same on the air of the programme. I gave Minister Olga Semeniuk a phone call to the old town of Pucky County. It's been a week. Your old man's phone is silent. Therefore, from this point of view, I am asking Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin, who is Prime Minister Semeniuk's superior, to respond to this matter. It is unacceptable that a high-level government official formulates allegations of heavy caliber and, on the other hand, makes uncoverable declarations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the moment, the hospital is only functioning thanks to financial support from old age. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u50	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a simple question. Support for micro-entrepreneurs, micro-entrepreneurs, who run school shops, run catering companies serving schools, tour pilots, taxi drivers. When will these entrepreneurs finally receive specific financial assistance so that they don't fall? And second question: When all hybrid hospitals receive medications to support treatment, among others. remdesivir? I'd like a written answer to these two questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u52	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Ms Agnieszka Ścigaj, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! The income criterion is not the only criterion for granting the aid, the other criterion is PKD. I have a question about PKD. In that case, if in Poland the procedure for the change of PKD is on average in the KRS approx. 7.8 months, how are entrepreneurs who have applied for a change of the PCD and have not received an answer because of the state's fault and because of the delay resulting from the bad operation of its institution? Second thing: Why is it that companies that were created this year are being expelled from this aid? After all, some of these companies were created from subsidies from labour offices, public money and they did not develop their wings in any way, and already on a good day are doomed to pay large fees, but also to pay penalties for failing to comply with the agreement concluded with the country in which they hoped. Why do companies like this get kicked out of this help? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u54	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u55	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Once again, the government forgot about individual industries and left out many entrepreneurs. That's the main charge. About that shield. If the government were to learn the lessons of the previous shields, and this is the sixth amendment, it would know that it is late again, again it is dimpled. And it's surprising that the government doesn't understand that the economy is a connected vessel system. If the author of this amendment had been driving not a government limousine for years, but e.g. By taxi, he would have found out from the taxi driver that if the government shut down the schools and closed down the workplace, then the income of this taxi driver fell dramatically and needed help. I'm surprised the government doesn't know that if, for example, If he closes the restaurants, the prices will fall at the food producers. Do the Prime Minister, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Agriculture know how much 1 kg of chicken costs to producers today? 2 zł. What about 1 kg of pork from the producers? [[♪ The bell ♪]] 3 zł. They deserve help, and you didn't include them in that shield. First of all, this shield lacks basic principles. Firstly, no new taxes, no new regulations and no new changes. That's what entrepreneurs expect. Entrepreneurs also expect you not to introduce regulations that interfere with them. Do you know what entrepreneurs think of you, who operate as a limited partnership? Do you know what they think of you and write in forums? Shame on you if you read this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u56	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! SARS-CoV-2 virus has brought about a worldwide pandemic. However, the lack of respect for man, the division of people into better and worse, the division of industries for better and worse became a sad Polish specificity accompanying him. Today, the Left Club has tabled amendments on the inclusion of industries that have been disregarded and omitted by this law. I wanted to say one of these industries, namely tour pilots, tour guides, including mountain guides. This industry has already been harmed by the Law on the Release of Competitions. Today, this profession is practiced by 20,000. Self-employed, forced to do this self-employment, temporary workers, people working on contract contracts, works contracts. These are people who pay taxes fairly, who pay ZUS. The refusal of this professional group of aid dedicated to other groups (The Bell) is harmful and unfair. This industry has made reasonable adjustments. First of all, I call for parking payments. It is for this industry to be or not be because the ban on assembly, the ban on events, the ban on staying in hotels means the ban on doing business and part of this industry does not operate. She last ran in the first quarter of this year, and some last in the 2019 season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u58	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have two key questions for the authors of this fatal bill, which in addition the PiS's adventure froze for 2 weeks, so that people were sentenced to actually 2-week absence and deprivation of means of life. I understand it wasn't the Member, it was some gentlemen who hid somewhere in the end of the Seym, probably out of shame. I understand the shame of you gentlemen, but we must answer the Members' questions, but we must show our face. Well, the first question is, why would you even want to list the PKD if you can't put it together? I mean, you guys didn't even write down those industries you closed down on that list. And the second question: which PiS genius of business thought that when restaurants close, the suppliers of vegetables, meat, bread and a number of other products are still great? Who told you when you were working on this bill? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have some bad news for you. The economy is a combined vessel, and if someone doesn't understand it, they just can't even get on with it. He has to, like people in the streets tell you, run away, and quickly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u60	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Monica Pawłowska, the Left Club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Every session of the Sejm, we are proceeding with some COVID act, which we have to patch with small slices a big hole, like a nuclear bomb, because the state that you are in charge of has been unable to fully cooperate with the opposition, to deal with this crisis. You didn't hear about the new solutions. At the time we talked about additions, we talked about wage solutions, we talked about solutions concerning all areas of the budget and life of Poles. You guys had time. You guys had time to set up double fences in a hurry before the Sejm anyway. You have time for worldview wars, you have time to argue in the international arena. Now you want to deprive Poland of 103 billion EU aid. It would be money for entrepreneurs, for white staff, for employees, for all (the bell) who today, as never before, need help. My question is: When Prime Minister Morawiecki comes out of his role for a while and realizes that someone who runs a bar, restaurant or other activity must pay the bills, must have something to buy food for, for children, for older people who are dependent? Ladies and gentlemen! Not everyone gets a warm job in your party, for example. as part of the reconstruction of the government. You guys are good. Why bother with a worse sort of thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u62	The question will be asked by Monika Falej, the Left. If there isn't, please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Entrepreneurs have been appealing for a few weeks, calling for help from the government, to you during this most difficult period for them. You created the framework for another shield with the noisy media announcements of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki himself three weeks ago. But you didn't fill that shield with content. The shield is jammed like Swiss cheese. The question is why she's stuck. Is it because you don't have any money because it's wasted or because you have no imagination? The phones and e-mails of our Members' Offices are cut off from the desperate requests of entrepreneurs to supplement this shield with another PKD. We expect our amendments to be added immediately to the bill under review today. Only then will this bill be called a shield, but a shield only for one month, for November. The question is, what are the entrepreneurs going to do next? Soon December. The economic situation of many industries will not change for the better. I am therefore asking what idea the government has for the next months to really help entrepreneurs, in particular the catering, hotel, tourism, trade, transport, fitness industry and the widely understood cultural industry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The aid we are debating today should reach more than 1 million people employed in many sectors, many sectors as soon as possible. So I ask the rulers to get this help as soon as possible to be real, real, fast and complete. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u64	I ask Mrs Krystyna Shumilas to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government is scared. The first rows, as you can see, are empty. I don't know if they're listening to us or answering our questions. The chaos in the country is best seen in education. First, without any preparation, the government opened schools wide. The effect is seen in the form of an increased number of cases of illness and death. At the moment, the schools are closed, but you've forgotten about a very important industry, those who do after-school classes for the students, for the children. It's tens of thousands of people employed. Those people have been out of work every day. You didn't include them in the PKD number. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Taking into account only the real drop in revenues of specific companies in this industry will certainly not help. That is why we call for our amendment and help for companies, for people who work with children on a daily basis. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u66	Thank you. The question will be asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u67	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Unfortunately, there aren't many government representatives. In a sense, I'm not surprised, because in the last few months, you've shown that you can start fires first, and that's just to put them out later. This certainly is not an effective fight against the effects of the pandemic. The government's actions over the past few months have either led to the collapse of many Polish companies in a moment. Who's gonna benefit from that? They gain, they already gain large corporations, large international corporations and foreign corporations. You've closed the cemeteries. What happened to the promised help of Prime Minister Morawiecki? She only got to the chosen ones. You've closed the fitness clubs. What's gonna happen? These clubs are about to be bought out by major international corporations. You shut down the furniture stores. And who will suffer the greatest consequences? Polish small entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have closed selected shops in shopping malls, often Polish shopping malls. Who will suffer the consequences? Polish entrepreneurs. This proposal, another proposal to fight the pandemic, to help entrepreneurs is simply not serious. You're destroying Polish entrepreneurs. These entrepreneurs, Poles, will charge you for this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u68	I would ask you to ask Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u69	My dear Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government can unintelligiblely buy 308 limos. Bayer Full was to receive over 500,000. Hundreds of thousands of honest-working Poles and Poles, entrepreneurs, are looking forward to helping. You're shutting down the industry, regardless of the consequences. I would like to say to you that these are employees of companies in shopping malls, that this is a fitness industry, a sports industry, a cultural sector, and at the end there are still 20,000. Polish mountain guides, tour guides and tour pilots. These people haven't had support in weeks. Do you know that since the first pandemic, this tourism movement has been frozen? And these people are out of help. That is why we call for you to support our amendments, to take into account those who work honestly, to serve, among others. tourist traffic, work hard, pay taxes so you can buy limos. All these people are about to settle you. The measure of how you want to discuss and help is how many of you, Members of Law and Justice, are present. A few. Representatives of the government - two people. This is not how you deal with serious laws for Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u70	I ask you to ask Mr Dariusz Ionski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u71	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the government closes down other sectors of the economy, it seems that it is doing so absolutely blindly. On the one hand, it closes fitness clubs and gyms, because the ceiling is too low, on the other hand it leaves open churches, because the ceiling is, as we hear, quite high. And the Member would prefer to close the churches. On the one hand, it closes for five twelveth cemeteries in such a way that people are not even able to leave these cemeteries, as in the case of Łódź they did not make it and were locked in the cemetery, and on the other hand the churches remain open. I have a specific question because that's what people are asking me. On what basis does the government make these decisions? Based on what analyses and how much did the government pay for them? And perhaps there are no analyses, perhaps the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki is looking at a glass sphere. Perhaps the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki and the Prime Minister Morawiecki themselves put the tarot which branches as the next close. And perhaps even Prime Minister Morawiecki goes to the fairy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is an important question, because people ask me, and today I ask the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who will finish the next branches by recklessly closing the economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u72	Thank you very much. I ask Mrs Mirosława Nykiel to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This shield is the quintessence of the government's cynical treatment of entrepreneurs. You treat them like a cash cow when they're going to finance your ridiculous proposals and ideas, but you forget about them when they're not in a very difficult situation. In fact, a month ago the government announced lockdown for many industries, leaving entrepreneurs and their employees also - for industries such as catering, fitness, all tourism, cultural industries, etc. The huge shield of Gowina, High Izbo, is the cost of PLN 833 million. Do you know what the cost of the Gliński shield was? 400 million. This shield, supposedly addressed to all entrepreneurs, is only twice the size of the Gliński shield. Entrepreneur, remember how the government treated you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Prime Minister, you have announced a 6.0, real aid to entrepreneurs, but this law regulates parking for one-man activity, introduces one-off aid for one-man activity. What about the rest of the entrepreneurs? The Act introduces exemption in respect of ZUS only for November. What about October? Where is the promised grant - 5 thousand. zł - where there is funding 70% fixed costs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u74	I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u75	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Minister, This draft law provides for the exemption of certain sectors from payment of ZUS contributions for November 2020. If companies benefit from the exemption from contributions for July, August and September, then what about October? After all, some industries did not generate income in October due to the hidden lockdown. When this question came up during the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, the Minister said that payment of contributions was a duty, and the law provides for exemption from contributions for completely different industries. Dear Minister, in the future, prepare for committee meetings. The five industries that will be able to benefit from the November exemption could also benefit from the relief in other months. Ladies and gentlemen! All entrepreneurs need support today to survive and function normally in the future, [[♪ The bell ♪]] pay taxes and pay social security contributions, and the lack of aid may result in some entrepreneurs not paying these contributions today, either next month or in the future, because they will not survive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u76	Thank you. I ask Mrs Zofia Czernow to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you a question about the paramedics. They're on the front line, exposed to serious illness, contagion. They often look for places in the sick hospital for a few hours. However, their situation is not regulated. They're divided, because some of the paramedics work on civil law contracts. They do not concern a 100% increase in remuneration provided by the Act. they do not receive additional forms of assistance for the period of medical release, for the quarantine period. They are often forced to look for replacements during their absence. EMTs don't want to renegotiate these contracts. Why? They probably don't have any money. My question is: Does the government guarantee money [[♪ The bell ♪]] for changes to contracts and assistance to medical rescue workers working on civil law contracts? There's 40% of them. , High Sejm. What happens if these rescuers run out? Who's gonna be responsible for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u78	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u79	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are talking about helping entrepreneurs, but the 29-year-old Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Potkowski had the biggest part in this case. Patkowski. Deputy Minister... Patkowski, I'm sorry. Unfortunately, without glasses, it's pretty hard. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister Patkowski recommends rescinding. But, High Izbo, what was the most famous rebranding of the last nine months? This rebranding is an arms dealer, a TNT dealer who's become a ventilator specialist. [[Applause]] What is the effect of this change, High Izbo? The effect is that, so far, for 7 months, 70 million PLN have not returned to the health resort account. The effect is that the Attorney General is coming up with measures that have not been returned: nor has it been [[♪ The bell ♪]] the equipment delivered, and the money has not been returned. This is an example of a change of heart. Take care of the real help, not helping to change your people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u80	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The government hasn't completely prepared us for the second wave of pandemic. You put in a de facto lockdown, and you lie about not introducing it, and unfortunately the help you're offering is holes like a sieve. The current proposals exclude many affected industries, e.g. The grant can get a sports equipment rental, but no longer a sports equipment store, similarly it can get a clothing store, but the shoe shop doesn't. First, you need to expand the list of activities by many, many PKDs. It goes on, among other things. about guides, pilots, mountain guides, carriers, retail sales outside shops, other entertainment activities, recreational activities and many, many others. It is also necessary to extend this list to the counterparties of those entities whose activities are de facto impossible at the moment. Secondly, exemption from contributions should be introduced for all three months, for the entire period of the ban, and not only for November, as you propose. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thirdly, tell me why you're shortening the deadline for applying for remuneration funding by 10 June. It was supposed to be possible until the end of the epidemic. What about the health shield? Why aren't you publishing it? Why are you bringing in information about the sharpenings a few hours before they're introduced? Start really helping, not making it seem like you're helping. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u82	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Arthur Łącki's question. If there is no question, I ask you to ask Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! Maybe what I'm about to say isn't the most important topic, but life is made up of little things. On 1 January, the so-called purchase order is to enter into force. Online fiscal cash registers for gastronomy, guesthouses, hotels, i.e. those industries that are most affected by this partial lockdown. It has to be admitted that the deadline has already been extended, that the money was to be purchased by these industries by 1 July, but no one expected that the situation would be as it is. For those of you who don't know what I'm talking about, I'm going to say that these online moneys are money that sends data directly to so-called. Central Repository of Kas, which results in better monitoring of deposits. I am not discussing the need to seal the fiscal system, but if you do not change this deadline again, the date of entry into force of the obligation to purchase online cash registers, you will condemn people whose businesses are already very fragile and are falling apart, for the necessity (the bell) of spending from a few to several thousand zlotys for the purchase of cash, the release of money which they lack, among others. for employee payouts. I therefore call for the extension of the date of entry into force of this obligation. This really is not a good time to charge these industries with expenses, which are certainly not absolutely necessary at the moment. Thank you very much. Sorry about the extension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u84	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inability and partition - these are the two words that best characterize the government's actions in the fight against the pandemic. Talk to the fitness industry, the catering industry. Or merchants. Partakers - this is the only word that characterizes you, which can be quoted from this speaker, because the others are much stronger. But inability and screw-up aren't grounds for breaking the law. The previous law adopted by the Sejm and the Senate and signed by the President is still not published. You don't know why, do you? It is very clearly described in the Constitution by the legislative process in Poland: the law adopts the Sejm, possible amendments are introduced by the Senate, the President signs it and the Prime Minister is to do so. If he doesn't, he's exposed to constitutional responsibility... It's okay... Mrs... ...before the Court of State. And Prime Minister Morawiecki will bear such responsibility. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is not enough, the Penal Code contains provisions providing that such persons should be held accountable: Article. 231, failure to fulfil duty. But breaking the law to Matthew Morawiecki threatens three years in prison. [[Applause]] What's your proposal for Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u86	I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u87	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For months, we've been hearing how great the government is prepared to fight the coronavirus. The Prime Minister always presents it this way, and the media of PiS-owskie They're clearly articulating it. We have two legs. One's health care, and the other's what? Economy. There is much to be said about the seriousness of the situation and the helping of companies. Let the way the government treats entrepreneurs also testify to the presence or absence of prime minister today, the absence of deputy prime ministers. We've got a few of them. The seriousness of this situation and the seriousness of the approach to the economy require that at least one of them sit in the Chamber. Chaos and the mess - these are the slogans that can clearly be attributed to the government's work in the fight against the koravirus. Minister! For the second time, many industries have come to our parliamentary offices asking for help. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you how many such applications from many industries have been received since the adoption of the last shield, how many such companies and industries have sought assistance and support. Who's speaking to my MP's office again today? Tourist organizers, mediators and tourist agents. They're asking how they are. They've been forgotten all along. The floristic industry - this is an appeal for several months - which you forget. You're shutting down, but you're not offering to help right away. How's that supposed to look? Is this the kind of help that the Poles are going to be hoping for? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u88	I would ask you to ask Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fate of thousands of Polish entrepreneurs is weighed, the lives of their employees are weighed, and the benches are almost empty. We've got phones in our offices, we've got red-hot requests e-mails, begging entrepreneurs for help. The PiS-owska website does not participate in this discussion at all. By order of 9 October, you closed half-service Poland, you closed thousands of companies without even giving them hope, without saying a word to them. And they don't sleep - they stand, they wait, because they don't know what to do. And this bill is their only chance today. The Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition has tabled a number of amendments to this law, taking into account those PKDs that have been most normal in the world forgotten, forgotten, unwanted - I do not know what word to use. During the discussion, these industries appeared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 55.20 is the tourism industry. You even promised - between the Prime Minister's decision, the press conference and the regulation - that private accommodations, mountain shelters would work. No, they're not working. So? Nothing. You have closed shopping galleries, people operating on islands in shopping galleries have not been included in this project at all in terms of aid. I ask the High House to support the amendments of the Civic Coalition, and to the government to include all the sectors listed in the regulation of 9 October - those that have been closed - in this law as a government self-correction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u90	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mrs Margaret Janyska. I can't see. Then I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Not long ago Jarosław Kaczyński spoke with contempt about entrepreneurs that if they are not doing well, they should simply do something else. That's what Minister Patkowski said now. There are chaos, no consequences, last-minute decisions, and in the PiS Sejm it pushes further rules that complicate business activity. The longer this epidemic lasts, the more government representatives sit in front of the speaker. And that shows how this government is separated from reality. The government and the PiS have given more attention to discopolists than to active and entrepreneurial people who have worked hard every day, paying fair taxes for many years. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, disgraceful. It is shameful to do so. Plus, when government officials talk about too low ceilings, I think we all feel that this is due to a close meeting of the government and this low ceiling. I have questions: Why did Prime Minister Gliński give away public funds carelessly, so that we all felt as if he were spreading them from a helicopter? Why are entrepreneurs treated selectively and the economy as if it were not a connected vessel system? Minister, what about the trade on Sunday? Why is it still blocked? Why are such solutions not implemented as soon as possible? What about entrepreneurs who were active in shopping galleries, small Polish family companies, which today have no chance of doing so, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Anything to do? What about the industries that are blocked? These entrepreneurs are bankrupt today, and the state is working to complicate their lives. And last question: Is it true that the government is preparing a winter lockdown for the tourism industry? And is it true that the winter sports infrastructure will be shut down? Please respond in full in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u92	Thank you very much. We will now join Mrs Janyska, who will ask the question on-line. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]] [[Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question as to whether the government is so dramatically incompetent or so arrogantly ignoring entrepreneurs, as many social groups do. A month has passed since the closure of the catering industry, to which the aid was to come within a few hours or at the latest a few days, as offered by Prime Minister Morawiecki, while we still have an impudent bill. Why? Because the most important are ideological wars and fractal wars within the ruling group.]] [[This government has no strategy, it's clear. He spent months fighting and building his position. If he had a strategy, in parallel with freezing individual industries, he would immediately announce the aid prepared and offered, the consultation aid. Since October 24th, since the closure of the catering industry, I immediately started consultations with industry, which I did until yesterday. We've prepared a lot of good amendments. The industry wants to talk and keeps on saying and stressing this (The Bell) that no one has consulted with them for many months and has not prepared the economy at all for different scenarios, at various risks that were expected during this pandemic.]] [[I have a question: Where is Prime Minister Gowin? He recently promised the Enterprise Council that he would strive for jobs to work so that they could be launched as soon as possible. But he didn't do anything for the furniture industry again, even though he promised. He's not in the O.R. today. This is not an expression of support and serious treatment of entrepreneurs. This crew can't rule. Therefore, I have an appeal and a demand: accept the opposition amendments, proposals and proposals that are very well prepared and consulted, and finally start to see those who know about it so that the aid is real. Thank you.]] I would ask you to ask Katarzyna Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sadly, the rulers set another example of what they can do best - divide and rule. senseless divisions into better and worse sort, for better and worse industries. It is not possible to close down, prevent activity while refusing aid. It is time to put an end to politics: divide and rule, time for a policy of concern and responsibility, according to which the Left has proposed a number of amendments, which I am calling for from this point of view. And as to the questions: If, as applicants themselves admit, earlier aid to entrepreneurs was not differentiated, why has it become different now? What decided to choose the classification criterion, the PCD number when deciding whether or not to grant the aid and its possible form? According to what criteria - what was the decision - it was indicated, such activities were chosen rather than other forms of economic activity, taking into account some, apart from others, even related activities? Did the applicants claim that this was justified and justified? However, would it not be justified to abandon the PKD criterion in its entirety, as has been the case so far? ♪ The bell ♪ Please answer these questions in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u94	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! During today's debate, which brought together parliamentarians, more companies have closed down than there are Members of Law and Justice in the Chamber. The tourism industry, the restaurant industry and many other elements of the economic scene have fallen ill because of government incompetence. No meds, just requirements. Entrepreneurs from Bydgoszcz, Tuchola, Nakła or Inowroclaw have been appealing to me for weeks: help. Unfortunately, the government isn't helping. Prime Minister! Why did you leave the businessmen alone and tell them today: do you have to be on your own? Why don't you want to help those industries that don't just limp, but just slowly die? If there is no good will of the government, the Polish economy will not rise from its knees, and it will be the fault of Law and Justice. Thank you very much. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u96	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises calls for the government to resume discussions on the purpose of closure or restrictions on the activities of certain industries. At the same time, those who represent the tourism industry and other companies write to us, e.g. dealing with forms of after-school education, as well as nutritionists - because the diet industry is closely connected e.g. with fitness clubs, clinics or other such activities - representatives of aquaparks that are excluded from this proposed assistance. One of the Members asked the question: How can we combat economic apartheid? I think it's a kind of apartheid. Therefore, it is advisable to consider the application submitted by the Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 to exclude the PKD criterion from this law to delete them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is precisely the loss of revenue or revenue that should be the criterion that would guarantee this aid. They say there's no money. Here, however, I would like to say that for example. As regards the development fund - in this tranche almost PLN 25 billion at the disposal of large companies - 170 applications are likely to be submitted and only PLN 10 billion are likely to be used. 50 companies have withdrawn from 170 companies that have submitted applications: some of their own and others due to the control of the state institutions, so maybe this is the source of funding for these applications we are talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u98	Thank you. I now ask you to ask Mr Wiesław Buż, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As a result of the declaration of epidemic status and thus the lack of possibility of convening and holding general meetings of members of housing cooperatives, cooperatives are not able, firstly, to approve the financial statements for 2019, secondly, to split the balance sheet surplus for 2019. Failure by the general meeting of the abovementioned resolutions results in the need for members of the cooperative to pay from 1 July of this year until the general meeting of the operating fee in full. General assemblies cannot wait for the end of the epidemic, because this is how we expose the population to increased charges. The measures developed on the basis of the rental of usable areas and other revenues cannot be split. It is therefore necessary to adopt an urgent solution which will give cooperatives an opportunity to implement the measures they have worked out without delay. Maybe it's possible to pass on these powers temporarily, for the duration of the epidemic to supervisory councils? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cooperatives do not ask for external financial assistance, and this assistance was not covered by any draft law, but asks to be able to use the funds collected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u100	Thank you very much. I would like to address all Members who may be gathering here in connection with the original statement that the vote will begin at hours. 12.15. This is no longer valid because we have a slight delay. The voting will most likely begin after considering the next point, which is about about an hour. 13.30. I am saying this to those who have come to the vote and maybe they will also inadvertently interfere with the questioning. You're welcome, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've already got a 6.0 shield. Since March, we've been able to put so many patches on it that no one really knows what was in the original shield anymore. I think we're gonna put in a couple more patches because, as we can see, another shield is also a hole. They write to us - and I think they write to all Members - tour pilots, guides and mountain guides about the fact that they are not included in this shield, that they too have a hard time and that they are not getting any support. How is it possible that once again another group is being avoided, even though they are being asked for help? In this connection, I have specific questions to the government: Have there been any discussions with this social group? Has there been any consensus here? Is it included in this shield? Is there any possibility that she might still be included? And if you don't, how do you want to help this social group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u102	Thank you. I now ask Mr Wojciech King, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It took a pandemic for people to see that Law and Justice couldn't rule. Because money can be spent by anyone, but it can be managed - not everyone. Have you really not realized that shutting down one industry has consequences for another? Is it so hard to imagine a domino rule? Those ankles are falling over and you have to be able to see the last piece that's gonna fall over. You just have to get ahead of it, you have to get ready for it. And I can't understand why under one roof in a shopping mall I can buy a book or wine, but I can't buy jackets and shoes anymore, or why I can buy a glaze in a construction store, but I can't buy one in a furniture closet anymore. I don't get it. ♪ But what I do ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] The really dead is that you probably don't understand it either. [[Applause]] You didn't think. You didn't see it coming. Stop improvising, please. You are unaware, and you should be aware that companies in Poland, entrepreneurs in Poland are bankrupt, and the bankruptcy of Polish entrepreneurs is the bankruptcy of the state, because the state does not have its money. Think and stop improvising. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u104	The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The way the Polish government deals with Polish entrepreneurs, the food industry, hotel industry, shops in shopping malls or the tourism industry is best defined by one word: mockery. The mockery is that you close restaurants practically overnight, just before the weekend, without any warning, when people, entrepreneurs made a shopping weekend, which later had to go to the dumpster. The mockery is that you first announce that furniture stores will be open and then - several hours before - announce that they will be closed. The mockery is what you propose as part of this pseudo-aid that we are discussing today, because this pseudo-aid includes 1-month exemption from the Social Security Office, and it is only for those working under the employment contract that only covers 1-month parking. You completely forget about contractors and related industries (Dawn) on trade, tourism or the catering industry. Mr. Marshal, just a moment. The mockery is that the catering industry must wait 3.5 weeks for the Sejm to meet because you have decided that the Sejm meeting will be postponed, because that's how you fought in PiS. Prime Minister! Help for the industries I mentioned is needed immediately, and it is not the one announced at the press conferences, it is the real one, concrete one, adopted here in the Sejm, and not only, as you propose, for 1 month, but for a much longer period. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u106	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Urszula Nowogórska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u107	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Government representatives! I have a few questions. Ladies and gentlemen! All entrepreneurs need support, they need stability and confidence in the state. We all need to know that one day the pandemic will end and the economy must continue and must build our country. Therefore, I ask you to abolish the PKD criterion in order to follow the income criterion, because it will give stability and opportunity to rebuild and maintain jobs, and that is what we all need to remember, it is very important for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen! Abolition of the obligation to pay to the CSO at the time when we are dealing with quarantine or illness, from the first day. It is also a duty of the State and in this respect it must support entrepreneurs. This duty must be removed from business, it must be the government's responsibility. Just a few more questions about health care. We all know the demand for medical oxygen increased by about 40%. What's the government doing with it? Next question: What are we going to do to increase the amount of plasma returned? We all talk, encourage, we do social campaigns. Where are the draining devices for plasma separation? E.g. Not in the voivodship, but in the regional blood and blood centers. And one more question. Due to remote teaching, special schools continue to function, while day-care centers for children, e.g. with autism, mental illness or children with disabilities are conducted remotely, they require the participation of parents and carers. Is that normal? Shouldn't that be changed? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u108	Thank you. I would now like to ask Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I come from a typical agricultural province, Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship. We talked here about the problems of various industries, from transport to restaurants, shops. But we should also remember farmers, those who grow mainly vegetables, even in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship. What are farmers supposed to do who are left in the fields with onions, carrots, red beets or other vegetables? No one wants to take it from them. There are restaurants, there are various kinds of bars, which were normal recipients of this type of agricultural fetus. Does the government provide for any compensation for this industry, for our agricultural entrepreneurs, for our farmers? And another question. The Prime Minister once said that he would buy the equipment and that the Minister would buy the equipment from the devil himself. I have a question: How is it with shopping from our (Bingle) local Polish companies? Why don't we buy masks and aprons and stuff like that from them? I have an example from Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship that the government was not interested in such products at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u110	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u111	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank the Members of the opposition from the Left and the Platform, the Civic Coalition, PSL, Kukiz15, who intercede for entrepreneurs, thousands of Polish entrepreneurs, hundreds of thousands of Polish workers to whom this government destroys life by crawling lockdown. I just wanted to point out that this madness began on 2 March when the first COVID Act came in, as soon as the Confederation told us how it would end, as soon as the Confederation didn't get carried away with this hysteria and was the only one voting against it. This was the beginning of all these illegal regulations. Currently, the solution for entrepreneurs, for employees is a voluntary ZUS for entrepreneurs, some of you agree, and a tax-free amount at the level of 12 times the minimum wage. Unfortunately, as we have tabled such a proposal in the form of an amendment, it was not only the PiS that opposed it. Also e.g. Mrs Gil-Friday, Member of the Polska 2050 movement (The Bell), voted against. Anna Maria Żukowska also spoke against such a project, supporting the project, but saying that she would not sign under it, because it is a project of the Confederation. Together let us intercede for entrepreneurs and Polish workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u112	Thank you. I would now like to ask Mr Stefan Krajewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u113	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The PKD code must not be an indication of the granting of the aid or not. I would like to ask for the youngest entrepreneurs, those who have opened up their activities, using aid measures, EU, national. Ewa, a young make-up artist, wrote to me, who wanted to open a make-up studio, she did it, she got help, she got funding, but she also took out a loan for this business. And today he asks what happened to her future. Many young entrepreneurs are wondering. After all, they do not have savings, they often have borrowings, and they are ignored in subsequent shields. This aid must be granted to them. When will the government finally look at all the industries? Because today, the selective treatment of entrepreneurs is a thing that cannot be agreed with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u114	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Janusz Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Why is this aid bill just an industrial shield? After all, all companies in which production is reduced, the decline in income due to pandemics should be covered, not only by selected industries and according to PKD. The Commission concluded its work on 27 October. In the meantime, the Sejm doesn't do this until today. Is that Tusk's fault too? Several dozen industries, tens of thousands of companies were excluded from this next shield without a word of justification or explanation. These are pilots of excursions, guides, industries: catering, agrotourism, floristic, fair, training, conducting after-school activities, people running school shops, dance schools, transport companies, taxi drivers or entrepreneurs running small shops, including at markets, fair centres. Recently, taxi drivers from Bydgoszcz have asked me for financial support for this industry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Taxi drivers, like the whole service area, have also been affected by the pandemic. I would like to ask the ladies and gentlemen of the PiS to support the amendments of the Left Club, which include these PCDs. True, there are only five of you in the courtroom right now... And how many are left? I understand that this is your attitude towards Polish entrepreneurs, but please call your colleagues to... No, no. They're at a committee meeting. And how many are left? ...they supported these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u116	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u117	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Government! During the discussion on the COVID aid system, I wanted to ask the ministers to see the efforts of a professional group of electroradiologists. They are essential for all diagnostics, nuclear medicine or radiotherapy. That's a dozen million benefits a year. In 24 countries of the European Community, this professional group is subject to compulsory registration. In Poland it is a total of 16 thousand. Professionals. They function in a way next to the health care system. They are on the first line of battle against COVID, because they perform diagnostics in most patients, but so far they have been omitted when separating all additives for the fight against COVID-19 directed to health protection. Why? The previous minister was disarmingly honest with them: we can't help you because you don't have your professional group. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My request to government representatives: it is worth helping this group in the medical professions as well. The right rules are. All you have to do is decide to finally publish the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u118	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u119	The discussion of the next shields is roughly that the populist government and populist opposition are bidding on how much they wouldn't gladly give money to anyone. Only this money has neither government nor opposition. So over and over again it's a duplication of visions that you can get rich without work. If the government forbids citizens to work normally, if they close companies, if they limit their activities, then we will have less produced goods and services. If we don't make them, they'll just be gone. We're not gonna get the beans we didn't plant today. And what's more, you can't put money in that hole either, because money is only worth what it's worth to buy. Money only has that much value, if there's something For them to buy. If you can buy less things for them, it's gonna be less money. Therefore, the increase in money supply while falling in supply of goods and services must inevitably lead to inflation, right? So why do you all want inflation for the races? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u120	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u121	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! When entrepreneurs wondered how to make ends meet, what did the government do? Disputes in the collapsing coalition, fighting the European Union or buying 300 limos. For two weeks, the Sejm remained silent instead of helping entrepreneurs. The way you've treated people at work, it's the best way to show what you've done in the last few weeks. Those who used to trade flowers in cemeteries, you forbade business. To those who run the gyms, you had them shut down overnight. To those who run restaurants, you banned business and said, "Sell takeout dishes." To go - this is the government. [[Applause]] Bravo! This requires real support for entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We therefore make an amendment so that those who have been affected by this epidemic are exempt from the need to pay contributions to the Social Security Office for October, November and December. The retention of contributions per month is not a concrete aid. That's why we're proposing better solutions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u122	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What this government is dealing with, you could ask. The answer is clear. Everything. You guys are good, for example. with the purchase of limos for their already multiplied to superb amounts of functions. You guys are good, for example. with the purchase of masks from a friend from the oscypowo-ski concern. But you don't do well, for example. with help for the catering industry. The pilots have been protesting for several days. Also protest bus drivers, owners of transport companies. You're not helping them either. As for the closed cemeteries, how did you help those who were chrysanthemum-making and who wanted to sell the candles under the cemeteries? The answer is very simple. Some of you ordered the army to buy money from the defense fund, and to the rest you designated the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. And what's this agency doing? Indicates towns in other voivodships to which cut chrysanthemums must be given. What's going on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] These people still have to pay the delivery costs. That's how you help. To quote my previous speaker: end, spare the shame. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u124	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And you, fellow Members of the ruling party! Aren't you friends? You're already creating the sixth anti-COVID shield, the anti-crisis shield, and you can really call it thrushes: from the first to the sixth. In these shields, you don't help society, you don't help entrepreneurs. You divide them all and the difference. One day, no other day. You give more to the celebrities who honk your trumpet, you give the most. Even Mr. Solorz was allowed to leave the sale points of Digital Polsat in the living rooms open, and you locked everyone else up. As an entrepreneur and Member of the Republic of Poland, I have no questions for you. I have demands from businessmen. The first request is: exemption from the Social Security Office for small, micro and medium-sized enterprises until March 2021. Second demand: converting a loan from PFR to a non-refundable loan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Third: the acquisition of liabilities, property taxes and charges for means of transport to municipalities by the State Treasury. This must be done at the end, otherwise Polish small, micro and medium-sized enterprises will fall. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u126	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Truskolas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u127	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the representatives of the government in particular. I've seen Mr. Dworczyk's cockroaches say that the PiS government is helping entrepreneurs. But what does this help look like? I'll tell you. You don't talk to entrepreneurs, you don't help entrepreneurs, you expose entrepreneurs to bankruptcy. You close restaurants every day, close hotels, close gyms, close the fitness industry, and there's virtually no help from you to save these people's businesses. A few weeks ago, a protest took place in Bialystok, where representatives of the catering industry protested. And it was these representatives who said that if they didn't get real, reliable aid by the end of December in order to be able to pay off their liabilities to pay off leases and loans, these companies would have to close. Do you want to be responsible for this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the PiS government want to be a undertaker of Polish entrepreneurship? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u128	The list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. They will now be referred first to by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mr Marek Niebżak, and then by the rapporteur of the committee of Mrs Urszula Ruseck.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start by saying that I would like to thank you for the very good, I think, atmosphere and substantive discussion within the committee. I understand that the plenary room has rights and here, let's say, the atmosphere is a little bit different. That's right, you have to accept it. It also seems to me that a large proportion of the questions go far beyond the scope of the submission. I would particularly like to thank those Members who remember to add at the end that they are asking for a written reply, because we are likely to give it in this form. So that I thank these Members very much. It seems to me that there are a few things that in these few minutes, including a very short time limit, I should have scored. The first one's like this. Ladies and gentlemen, Poland's overall economic situation is not bad. I would like to point out that last week one of the investment banks actually increased the forecast for next year. In general, we are dealing with a really healthy economy. However, it is a fact that some of the targeted, point-based industries, such as those that suffer most from pandemics, such as the numerous gastronomy mentioned here, require targeted, point-based assistance. It is not that the government - because several times it was also mentioned about certain industries or activities related to the tourism industry - did not remember them. Please note that there is a law which provides for aid for tourism industries. Please also note that the submission we are discussing gives the Council of Ministers the power to issue a regulation. This Regulation will allow the aid to be extended. This law therefore provides for aid for November, but it also provides for mechanisms that allow this aid to be extended to the government. As an example of such data... It was often quite raining here, I think, I would say, already heavily blown ideas about the bankruptcy of companies. I quickly had the opportunity to check the bankruptcy figures in October, for November, of course, there is no data yet, and it so happens that, as it compares October year to 2019, the bankruptcy rate in Poland was even lower in 2020 than in 2019. I don't want to say... Of course, I realize that these closed industries are suffering very much, and they need help. On the other hand, it is not necessary to draw some tragedy, an image of the Polish economy in black colors, because this picture is simply a picture based on facts, and I would like to stick to the facts in this statement. If some of you are talking about PKD, it is clear to me that in the current economic situation aid must be targeted. If you have any other, relatively unambiguous and reasonably operational method for identifying these disadvantaged industries than PKD, then I would really like to invite you to discuss whether in the Seym or in the Senate - because these are the forums on which we can discuss. However, remember that the criterion must be unambiguous and must be operational, it must be easily implemented, it must be implemented so that this assistance does not consist in us e.g. For a week, 2 or 3 weeks, we will verify the exact state of the company. This must be in some way simplified, in my opinion, this is the solution. It's not quite true what was mentioned here, for example. Trade fair organizers that markets are omitted. That's not true. The organizers of the fair are included in this parliamentary presentation, the marketplace industry, trade at the marketplaces as well. I expect that since new sharpenings have been introduced over the past few weeks, further industries will be added to the amendments. That's what we expect. It's completely normal. There was also a question about the deadline of 10 June for the submission of applications. Ladies and gentlemen, we have the European Commission's approval to grant the funding from the Labour Fund by 30 June, and this is precisely what the deadline is. We can only provide this assistance in accordance with EU law until 30 June, so the application must be submitted within that time limit, in this case by 10 June, in order to be able to implement it. And not that it turns out later that the application will not be possible because it is too late. One last thing, very briefly. I understand that it's kind of fluctuating: a month ago, two months ago on this side I often heard about the state of public finances, about debt. Today I see that there is a mood: let's add more industries, let's add the whole economy. Ladies and gentlemen, you can have either one view or the other. They can't be combined. Either you want to worry very much about the state of public finances, or you want to give everyone and everything. Let's look together for a middle road, I think this project is going this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u130	Thank you. The rapporteur of the committee, Ms Urszula Ruseck, will now speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u131	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Thank you very much for this discussion during the second reading of the law, which is intended to help Polish entrepreneurs. It is a pity that the opposition to my call for a substantive discussion did not listen, and for about 40 opposition Members, only one Member really asked a specific question. Come on, dear opposition... [[Game in the O.R.]] Madame, I am so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow the rapporteur to speak. Still on human misery, crisis, bad emotions, the opposition wants to raise political capital. Your invectives, lies, slanders, slogans repeated in the media space, not bringing anything else, are just embarrassing. You don't read... Coronavirus pandemic hits the entire world economy. The European Commission has presented the latest forecasts for the European economy. All countries are facing recession. Against the background of other, much wealthier economies, the Polish economy will be affected to the slightest extent. And this is the official Eurostat data, so I think they're reliable. Does the opposition have any objections to them, too? For this data? Look, opposition, the truth in the eyes. The lowest decline in GDP among other countries. Go to the restaurateurs and tell them that. We've been waiting for a month. The Polish government supports entrepreneurs. In the rule of law and justice, companies grew stronger. Don't disturb me, sir, you are a big, huge, and not a force of argument, but please with arguments, not... That's the force of the argument. The power of argument -- physical force, I think, sir, towards a woman. That's how the Platform treats women. Mr President, there was a request and I repeat it once again. How didn't you guys have a discussion at all? Since the start of the pandemic, the Polish government has allocated 152 billion from the anti-crisis shield, from the financial shield, and to the overall, total fight against the pandemic has already allocated over 300 billion. Up to now, 5 million jobs have been defended. Total opposition! You have no program for Poland or for a time of peace... We're making adjustments. But we do. But we do. ...and all the more so for this great global epidemic crisis. You don't have any ideas. Just don't bother. Madam President, this has nothing to do with the report. Corrections. What kind of performance is this? That's the draftsman of the committee? Just don't bother. Once again, I call for an hour. 18 At the committee meeting there was a substantive discussion on the amendments that you tabled, and not that these were the next speeches that took place here at the second reading. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It was supposed to be a month ago. Shame.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u132	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on government departments and some other laws (print No 738). I ask the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers, the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Michał Dworczyk to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill amending the law on government departments and some other laws. High Izbo! This draft law is the result of political decisions which have resulted in the reorganisation of the Council of Ministers and parts of the administration being significantly reduced in the number of resorts, which, I believe, will have an impact on growth. the efficiency of the ministry's work, the shortening of decision-making processes and the overall improvement of the functioning of the government. In fact, this project amends four fundamental laws: firstly, the law on government departments, secondly, the law on the Council of Ministers, thirdly, the law on employees of state offices and, fourthly, the law on civil service. This is quite a comprehensive act of several dozen pages, so I will briefly present the most important changes that we propose to make to the proposed bill, and then eventually I will answer the questions of ladies and gentlemen. The proposed amendments to the Law on Government Administrations concern: firstly, the indication in the heading: climate within the framework of the European Union's climate policy implementation, also the objectives of transformation towards achieving climate neutrality. Secondly, the introduction to the heading: the climate of shaping and pursuing policies for a climate-neutral economy. Thirdly, the transfer from the department: the environment to the new section: forestry and forestry hunting, forest and forestry protection and hunting, and the transfer of supervision of the activities of the State Forests, the Forestry Research Institute and the activities of the Forest Seed Office in Warsaw to the competence of the Minister responsible for forestry and hunting. Fourthly, the creation of a new branch of government administration: geology and the focus of geological-surgery issues in one section and clarification of the scope of tasks to be carried out by the main geologist of the country. Fifthly, the creation of a new branch of government administration: the administrative centre of the government, which will cover matters of determining strategic directions of state development, analyses and assessments of socio-economic impact of the proposed regulations, coordination of government activities, coordination of government cooperation with the President of the Republic of Poland, the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland and information policy of the Council of Ministers. Sixthly, the transfer of the National Centre for Research and Development and the Łukasiewicz Research Network from the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science to the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs. Seventhly, the creation of a National Sports Centre, the President of which will be the central government body competent in matters of physical culture. The NCS President will be supervised by the Minister responsible for physical culture. Ladies and gentlemen, further amendments are changes that will be introduced in the Council of Ministers Act. They concern: the Legislative Board in the form of defining the tasks of the Legislative Board, the rules for the appointment and dismissal of the members of the Legislative Board, the rules for inviting and participating other actors in the work of the Legislative Board and the rules for the remuneration of members of the Legislative Board and other invited persons. Another issue is the Centre for Strategic Analysis. These changes will take the form of the following: conversion of CAS into the Government Centre for Analysis and definition of its organisational form; identification of the tasks of the Government Centre for Analysis and replacement of the representative of the President of the Council of Ministers responsible for analyses and studies in the field of key public policies as Head of the Government Centre for Analysis. The next item concerns the Government Legislative Center. It will describe tasks related to the service of the Legislative Board and the conduct of legislative applications and educational activities. And the next, fourth point in this bill is to provide for the possibility to appoint state secretaries in ministries higher than one. So far, this has been a restriction with which all governments have met in recent years, regardless of whether the majority in Parliament had the Law and Justice or the Civic Platform or the Left. I fifth, last point, direct indication in the act of appointment of the representatives of the President of the Council of Ministers pursuant to Article. Twelve bills. In the third act, i.e. the Act on employees of public authorities, the amendments concern the possibility for the President of the Council of Ministers to identify organisational cells in offices where employees are public officials within the meaning of that Act. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the Civil Service Act. The amendments relate in particular to the inclusion of Undersecretaries of State in the Civil Service Corps. Such solutions are also practiced in other countries. They, in my opinion, will increase the efficiency of administration. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Please support the bill submitted to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Kaleta, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The 1997 Law on Chapters provides a possibility. The point is, in a difficult situation, this law can be amended. At the moment, we are undoubtedly in a situation that I don't have to talk about. This is a pandemic time. The rules should be adapted to allow the Council of Ministers to function effectively and effectively in this respect. The Minister mentioned this, perhaps rather briefly, but I understand that during the discussion there will also be an opportunity to ask questions about the future of this law. As we know, it's a pretty extensive bill. It also has other laws in its package. I think the argument is simple. The government must act smoothly, the government must act to the benefit of our citizens. As a matter of fact, it is up to the government to do what it will do, what structure it will have. Therefore, looking at the bill, you may feel that it is going in the right direction. It is also about reducing the number of resorts and improving the efficiency of the Council of Ministers. These are key issues. Mr. Marshal mentioned that you can speak about five minutes on behalf of the club. I don't want to take up so much of your time. It is clear to us that this law should be supported because good government action, good functioning of the government is in the interests of all Poles. This should undoubtedly be on the side of the President of the Council of Ministers and those who cooperate with him. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to declare to the High House that this club will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. I would now like to ask Mr Konrad Frysztak, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u137	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I have the impression that this law was written by a team led by your Member from Grójc, who writes a law about Radom as the capital of the Mazowieckie voivodship. It's just as chaoticly written as the whole band is chaotic. I wonder if this bill is really going to fill those shortcomings and errors that we described in the black book, a document that actually It is clear what negligence you have committed during your government's activities in our country. What has this government become famous for five years? The first basic thing - you've created the most numerous government in history. It is also the largest government in Europe. You're the leader again. As for what you did not say in your explanatory statement, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that in a time of crisis, when Poles lose their jobs, the Minister increases the remuneration of Undersecretaries of State. How? The answer is very simple. Firstly, by appointment of the Undersecretary of State, they will become members of the Civil Service Corps. As other legal acts indicate, remuneration in higher positions is the 8th multiplier of the basic amount of PLN 2031. The additional function is 2.05 of this multiplier. In total, ladies and gentlemen, the Undersecretary of State of the Civil Service Corps will earn over 21,000. zł. Can we afford it? Of course you can. That's what the Law and Justice government says. This government was supposed to be cheaper, this government was supposed to be less numerous. How's it look? Looks like you're gonna pack everyone up for the civilian corps and feed them. As far as the next issues are concerned, please note, ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has prepared a provision which makes the Undersecretary of State in the Civil Service Corps not have to keep a register of benefits. With the permission of the chief of staff, he'll be able to make extra money. Where? Probably at the State Treasury company. It's where you're most likely to pack your friends. How much will the Undersecretary of State make? I think you're being limited by fantasy. Who knows how long? On further issues, ladies and gentlemen, we need to mention other provisions, e.g. concerning the Legislative Board. You're removing a record stating that the council is only going to count 20 members. How many are there gonna be? It's hard to say, I'm sure the Minister will. How about 120? I'd like to go back to the Undersecretaries for another second. As the constitution says, the Undersecretary of State is an apolitical expert. So what do you call Undersecretary Olga Semenuk, Councilwoman of Law and Justice in Warsaw? He's supposed to be an apolitical, partyless expert. You're gonna have a problem with that. Ladies and gentlemen. This bill is not a remedy for these mistakes. The remedy for these mistakes is the hard work you should do every day, and all you do is take care of those who have fallen out. You can't just take care of Ardanowski because he defied you. Ladies and gentlemen! Given all the arguments I have raised, as the Civic Coalition Club, we are proposing that this project be rejected at first reading. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Wiesław Szczepański will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Left Club, I would like to present to the High House our position towards the Government's draft law amending the Government Administration Departments Act and some other laws contained in print No. 738, the draft law on which we are proceeding in express mode without any opinion, expertise or consultation. In November Ub. r. has been appointed a new government with new ministers: the Minister of Assets, the Minister of Climate Affairs and the Minister of European Union Affairs, and in January 2020 the Sejm adopted a revision of the Law on Departments, specifying the competences for these ministries. A reconstruction of the government took place less than nine months later. The politicians of the United Right have said that he will be weightless, smaller, compact and strong. There are fewer ministries in the new office, but there are few ministerial posts missing. Two new offices are coming for this. Several ministries have been joined, which I will not mention, but for example. The Ministry of Digitization is wound up as a separate office and this department goes completely to the Prime Minister. The Ministry of Sport is transformed into the Government Sports Centre supervised by the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński. The Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping will establish the Main Maritime Office supervised by the Ministry of Infrastructure. The fourth Deputy Prime Minister is appointed as Head of the Security Committee of the force departments. Despite a reduction in the number of ministries, the number of members of the Council of Ministers fell from 24 to 22. In the new structure, the law firm of the Prime Minister becomes a sort of superministership. Its management was 16 people before the reconstruction. Yesterday I went to the Prime Minister's office and what do we see there? 22 people. For everyone in Ujazdowskiego Avenue, we need secretariats, offices, cabinet heads, advisors and administration, and we still have the positions of secretaries and undersecretaries of state. The government of Mateusz Morawiecki in terms of numbers returned to its 2017 state. However, it is not the smallest government, because, let me remind you, in Leszek Miller's time we had 16 people. According to MEP Adam Bielan, the reconstruction of the government is not really about slimming off or saving money, because they are minimal for the state budget. The aim of the reconstruction of the government, and therefore the law discussed today, is to improve decision-making, i.e. to reduce the number of resorts, accelerate the processes of inter-ministerial arrangements and so-called. the fight against the Polish silo, i.e. the lack of cooperation between the various resorts. Today's bill amends the Act of 4 September 1997 on departments and dozens of other laws, adapting them to the new structure of the Council of Ministers. The project separates new departments of government administration - geology, forestry and hunting and the administrative center of the government. It envisages making changes to the issues assigned to the departments of construction, planning and spatial planning, as well as housing, water management, mineral management, climate, physical culture, tourism and the environment. A new branch is being established: the administrative centre of the government, which is to be appropriate for the definition of strategic directions, analyses, forecasts and assessments of the socio-economic impact of the proposed regulation and coordination of government administration activities in the area entrusted by the Council of Ministers or the Prime Minister, staff policy in the government administration. Of course, it is said that it is to coordinate the Prime Minister's cooperation with the President, the Sejm, the Senate and also to deal with defence or state security. The status of Undersecretaries of State in the government administration is changing, as my previous speaker said. They are to be included in the Civil Service Corps, will be appointed and dismissed by the Prime Minister, and their remuneration will be the same as in the case of salaries of seniors in the Civil Service, so much higher. With the permission of the head of the office, they will be able to undertake additional work. Then I have a question, Minister. Since our remuneration as parliamentarians is linked to the remuneration of the Undersecretaries of State, is this how you want to raise Members' salaries as well? The Prime Minister will be able to determine the organizational cells in the state offices. These solutions are intended to allow flexible regulation of employment policies in government administration. According to the explanatory memorandum to the Act, the proposed amendments aim at adapting the structure of the government administration to the new reconstructed structure of the Council of Ministers, which is a response to the present times. How many government officials are you going to release, how big is the list right now? The changes aim to increase efficiency while reducing costs, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, the government's activities, although we find this difficult to see. My club isn't gonna ask for this bill to be rejected, but it's proposing that he be referred to the committee for further consideration. ♪ The bell ♪ Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u140	Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mrs Urszula Nowogórska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u141	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - PSL - Kukiz15, I have the honour to present a position on the government draft law on amending the law on government departments and certain other laws contained in the sejm print No. 738. The project assumes the separation of several new departments, among others. geology, forestry and hunting and the administrative center of the government. This is the result of a recent reconstruction of the government and a reduction in the number of ministries from 20 to 14 to increase efficiency while reducing the costs of government administration. The bill also includes changes in the various departments: construction, planning and spatial planning, housing, economy, water management, deposit and fossil management, climate, physical culture, tourism and the environment. The establishment of a new department - the administrative centre of the government assumes the identification of strategic directions for the development of the state, assessment of the functioning and functionality of its structures, carrying out assessments and analyses, and assessing the socio-economic impact of the proposed regulations, as well as coordination of government administration in the field of the operation of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister and HR policy in the government administration. In addition, the administrative centre of the government is to coordinate activities related to government cooperation, the Prime Minister, the President, the Sejm, the Senate and other state bodies referred to in this section, also dealing with defence and security issues of the state, information policy of the Council of Ministers and the Prime Minister, substantive support, organisational and legal, technical and office-office services of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Council of Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers. The bill is very extensive and involves changes in a number of other laws, as my previous speakers mentioned here. There will be an uprising, among others. the geology department in addition to the administration department: the environment, which is intended to cover the proper management and safety of fossil raw materials, research, qualifications and functioning of the geological service. It is also about eliminating hydrogeological services and the location of the main geologist of the country, as well as issuing mining concessions related to this area. Another amendment is to separate forestry and hunting from the environmental department under the direction of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The next amendment concerns the supervision by the Minister of Climate Control of the Chief Environmental Inspector, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Regional Environmental and Water Management Funds. Another change concerns taking away the higher education minister's influence on the activities of the Centre of Łukasiewicz and the National Centre for Research and Development and transferring it to the Ministry of Economy. The next amendment includes the transfer of staff from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology. The Minister of Forestry and Hunting will also supervise the forest office. The National Sports Centre will be established and cancelled by the Prime Minister at the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. physical culture. An important point is the amendment to the Act on State officials, which will allow flexible regulation of employment policies in the government administration. The next amendment concerns the Act on the Council of Ministers on the possibility of creating an ancillary body for the Council of Ministers or the President of the Council of Ministers. The Legislative Council referred to here is to fulfil the task of coordinating legislative work. There is also a mention in this law that different experts can be invited. Changes are also made to the Civil Service Act. Minister for Foreign Affairs rural development takes over the competence to provide assistance to rural hostel circles. Dear Minister, Further discussion will probably take place in committees, but I already have a number of questions which I would like to share with you. Will decision-making processes in relation to these changes take place more quickly? I'm sure there'll be some confusion at first and there'll be a little chaos. Will this really reduce the costs of government administration when more than one Undersecretary of State and plenipotentiaries are appointed? Will there not be dismissals in ministries and voivodships on the occasion of the conversion of ministries? Will the Undersecretaries of State really have the opportunity to moonlight? And another question: Why is the number of persons on the Legislative Board not clarified? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u142	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Urbaniak and Mr Jakub Kulesza will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u143	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Confederation's Circle on the draft law on the amendment of the law on the departments of government administration and some other laws, which is around 60. It is not the first time that the government changes the form and organisation of government activities. Unfortunately, in a time of crisis, when the government is de facto shutting down the economy and we need clear leadership, the ruling party took care of itself and its pieces on the chessboard. That has to be made clear. The time for organizational changes in the government was the summer when Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that the coronavirus was already in reverse, so that especially older people would go to elections. Then the administration could be changed. You've wasted Poles' time. Of course, since we are faced with the fact that the work of specific ministries is changing, priorities have also changed. I have the impression that the government is preparing for the liquidation of at least a few industries or even economic departments. Eliminating e.g. Ministry of Maritime Affairs, we degenerate the importance of maritime policy for the Polish state, that is the fact. It is proposed to separate the new administrative department of forestry and hunting. There will be a transfer at this point to the Ministry of Agriculture. Well, it is logical - it may seem logical - but we have serious doubts about the future of Polish forestry and Polish agriculture, taking into account the recent exploits of Minister of Agriculture Grzegorz Puda and his five against farmers pushed by an unconstitutional and completely thoughtless knee. I look forward, by the way, to the Minister's reply on the interpellation of five against farmers. Did she even happen because she's a prolongata so far. Just let the Poles work. Applause As proposed, there will also be an administrative centre of the government, i.e., let's agree, a unit serving the government to take care of itself. Undersecretaries of state will be included in the civilian service corps - okay - but the Prime Minister will be able to decide who to disable from this corps. What kind of critters is that supposed to be based on? The Corps is supposed to be political in principle. I can't believe any apoliticality will be maintained here. I am also of the opinion that the job should be paid well, but we see that the Undersecretaries will most likely get much more money, and it turns out that there will be an interesting and comfortable place for new jobs for colleagues. These are the doubts that naturally arise to every man who looks at how the government of law and justice works. You're pouring from empty to vain, and you're just changing the bureaucracy records, and in practice, nothing's gonna change. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u144	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For years, the Law and Justice government has been under attack by right-wing politicians, the Confederation, in connection with overgrown bureaucracy, arising like mushrooms after rain institutions, offices, positions. And you thought, as we say, how many of these ministries are there, that it would be enough to reduce the number of ministries and be done with the problem? No, it's not. You have theoretically eliminated six ministries, but each of these six ministers has found employment in the government administration. Moreover, the State is liquidating the Ministry, the Minister is appointed Deputy Minister in the new Ministry, and new offices are being created: the new Office for Foreign Affairs. sport, the new central office for sport. Marine. In fact, the number of posts is increasing, but it is not the number of posts that is the biggest problem, it is bureaucracy, regulation, paperology that follows all these positions. There's a problem here. Let's vacate the laws that are the basis for these positions. Thousands of unnecessary institutions, the foundations that the state is calling, go hundreds of millions of zlotys that are wasted and could be left in taxpayers' pockets. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u146	Thank you very much. The questions are covered by 18 Members. I'm closing the list, setting the time to ask a question for one minute. You still up for it, Marshal? Another one, Mr Jakub Rutnicki. The first question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u147	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We have heard many words in this House. It was meant to be humility, work, service, modesty, but for five years, you've all trampled on these slogans. Today, you are proposing a restriction in the administration. And today many Poles listening to us ask: What will we get out of it? How much do we save on the administration? How much less tax are we going to pay? How much will this change cost us? Minister! I wanted to ask you, in the context of these changes, how many additional seats appeared in - one can say - the superresort, in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Is that where the number of ministers is limited? Have the ministers arrived? Tell me, in general, as long as the number of ministers in this administration is limited, how many vice-ministers will not return to the government. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! Recently we heard, and all of Poland heard, and Poles heard that you were buying 308 limos, buying a new fleet. I wanted to ask you, is this fleet already assigned to these changes that you are proposing today in the bill? Are you going to apply for extra money to buy limos, pay for drivers, secretaries? How much will all this cost the Poles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u148	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At a time when the government should prepare us for a second wave of pandemics, when it should plan, anticipate and prepare, he gave us a game of thrones, and really a game of stools. It's got so much to do with the show that the body is thick and blood is pouring. And what are the effects? This law is just a fallout of the United War, or maybe even the Ununified Right One. 'Cause what's the result? As a result, we have more executives than before. Therefore, I ask the Minister, if he can answer right away, but on second thought I would prefer in writing, first of all answer, how many members of the management of the various ministries: ministers, state secretaries, undersecretaries of state, this bill generates. What is the monthly average [[♪ The bell ♪]] the cost of these ministers' wages? Except you're raising our wages, so this government is gonna cost us more and more, and you're gonna pay double. Is it true that the cancelled Minister Piątkowski did not work for a while just to return to office as Secretary of State in the Ministry, but at the same time get a briefing? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u150	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Rutka, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Are you sure this is the best time to create another central body for your party colleagues? What is the point of creating a new institution held from taxpayers' money, the National Sports Centre? For many years there has been a Central Sports Centre with national coverage. Is it a national adjective? It's a bit of a fun road. You create another budget unit, and at the same time you close the gyms and fitness centers, private, often family, local businesses, which allowed many families to maintain. The National Sports Centre will also take care of families, but families that are designated from the party key.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u152	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Monika Pawłowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u153	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill, which you have presented, implies, of course, the extension of the system of influence, the provision of stools to all your prominent party activists and results from only one - the coalition agreement. The promise of Prime Minister Morawiecki was to lose weight in the ministries. What do we got? We have glamour: further posts, increases, consultative councils, advisory centers, superministers. The cherry on the cake is Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński, who will do what? He will probably advise on the government and the entire Council of Ministers. Because as for this law and the fact that you have been ruining Poland for five years, there is no doubt. I have a question: Is something going to happen to Minister Sasin? Because you're obviously ignoring him in this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u154	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mrs Monica Falej, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u155	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Analyzing the bill, it is difficult to see important and desirable changes. I have the impression that you care about staff casts, and that is to be done by changing the law. So please describe the social benefits of the proposed changes, because I have the impression that this is a national stool spin. Please calculate the expected savings resulting from the various changes and ask them in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u156	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u157	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This submission assumes the creation of a department: geology. The position of the country's chief geologist is strengthened there. I wanted to ask you how will it translate into protection, strengthening Polish interests in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u158	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed law excludes Polish forests from the supervision of the Ministry of Environment and moves them to the Ministry of Agriculture. Is that a good decision? Let me give you an example. In January last year, the Brazilian populist Jair Bolsonaro made a similar decision. As a result of the arson on a massive scale, forests ignited, and the deforestation of the Amazons dramatically accelerated. The burnt land was immediately converted into crops, for the production of feed and soya. Maybe the lightning struck? Brazil and we, humanity, have lost a huge patch of the Earth's green lungs. Can something like this happen in Poland? In Poland already 5 years ago, NIK asked for less exploitation and more protection of Polish forests. Instead, in October, the government made it possible to smoke wood from forests in large power plants. Will the government take the next step today, give the woods to the farmers, the industrial lobby, like Bolsonaro in Brazil? Why do you treat woods like a firewood farm? I'm calling for you not to do this. The foresters themselves also call for this. Listen to the foresters. Let's not go that way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u160	The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I remember November 2015. One of the first laws was the law on administrative departments. This draft law then symbolically began to degenerate and destroy the state. And this destruction continues. An example is also this bill. In part, it concerns the Legislative Board. We can all see at what level government's draft laws are presented. They are repeatedly amended, amendments are presented to the draft laws, which often occupy more space than the law itself. On the other hand, the government is planning to change this council, increase wages. And, of course, the question arises: Since we all see it here in Parliament, but citizens, entrepreneurs, are painfully convinced about it, these regulations are unclear, they need to be amended later, should this work (the bell) be rewarded? Do you want to pay extra for this work, for the ambiguity of the rules that citizens, entrepreneurs face every day? After all, it's unfair to all those who work hard every day to keep themselves alive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u162	The question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u163	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Do you really think that the Undersecretary of State in the PiS government is a corps? Civil service? Is it a professional body and is it an apolitical body? And is this a corps that is also accounted for for for its mistakes? Janusz Cieszyński signed a contract with the arms dealer for ventilators. So far, 70 million zlotys have not returned. The case is dealt with by the Attorney General. Is he gonna get anything back? I don't think so. Second thing. Minister, how many Undersecretaries of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister? On 19 October, Prime Minister Morawiecki decides that a temporary hospital is to be established at the National Stadium. Tomorrow will be exactly a month, and the deal with the company as it wasn't, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not the way it is. Would any of these vice ministers be willing to make a deal so that we know what the cost of building 33 seats at the National Stadium is right now? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u164	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Michał Grammar, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u165	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Michał Grammar, in Polish. The reasons for this bill are captivating. Allow me to quote one thing: the aim of this law is to further optimise the functioning of the government administration, taking into account the need to ensure rational and efficient use of official staff. It is the language constituting the intersection of the corporate new language with the language of the People's Tribune, at least in my opinion. On this occasion, it is worth asking the following questions: Why do you eliminate, you have eliminated the Ministry of Sport, since today the central government body of the National Sport Centre, which has almost exactly the same tasks as the decommissioned Ministry, is set up in its place? What fate awaits the employees of the Ministry of Sport who will not get a job offer [[♪ The bell ♪]] in the National Sports Centre or in the Ministry so far? 'Cause it's art. 85 presentations are pretty ruthless for them. Keep up the good work. We're gathering materials for the second volume of the black book of your governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u166	I would ask you to ask Mark Owl, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think this is a surrogate discussion, because as you know, there was no reconstruction of the government. All those who perform functions continue to do so. Sometimes they just have more money to pay for it. The only victims in the internal games are Prime Minister Emilewicz and Minister Ardanowski. But you want this discussion to distract us from what is most important. Remember - number of the day: 603. There were so many victims of Coronavirus today. We are the best in Europe, the dream of Prime Minister Morawiecki has come true. We're the best in the world. And all this just a day after Minister Niedzielski said that all the worst is behind us. Could there be anything worse than the death of a loved one? You know health care only from pictures from the national hospital, but this isn't a normal hospital, because there's a lot of beds in there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And there are no patients. Go to a normal hospital, [[Applause]] where there are no beds, there are no halls, doctors, nurses, paramedics, where they fight daily for the health and life of their patients. Tell them the truth, look them in the eye, tell them why you haven't published a bill that guarantees them a 100-percent wage allowance. [[Applause]] Tell them why you're stealing from them. These are questions that need to be answered today, and not - some kind of surrogate discussion about the division of PiS spoils. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u168	The question will now be asked by Agnieszka Pomaska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Poles and Poles are entitled to the truth, and you are lying at the very beginning because the title of this law is a lie. This isn't a law on guns. This is actually a law on providing work for your colleagues. This is a bill about securing your lives for your colleagues in Law and Justice. After all, you have eliminated six ministries in order to provide five ministers with government functions as vice-ministers, and one minister transferred, in fact, to create for her a representative of the Prime Minister for the creation of the National Sports Centre. If you're already lying at the very beginning of the bill, how can we talk about a fair discussion? Mr Owl very rightly stated that once again you are engaged in the fight for stools and not in the health of Poles. You don't do what you're supposed to do, and Poles and Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They'll settle you soon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u170	The question will be asked by Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! Minister! A good colleague just said: this is not a law on guns, it's about sons for prominent PiS activists and your party colleagues. I wanted to tell you that in order to heal the maritime economy, you didn't have to liquidate the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, you had to change the minister, because the minister was just not fit. [[Applause]] If we'd changed the minister, it would have been better. And the keel is? And to show the public why you're doing this, I have one question for you, and I'd like to ask you to answer it in writing. I wanted to ask about the remuneration of the members of the Legislative Board now and after the entry into force of this law. And put it in writing, in absolute terms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u172	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The reasons for this law are savings. I would like a written reply on what financial savings this law will bring. It's about a complete summary of it. I do not see these savings, nor do I see any optimization in all these changes, and I agree with all my previous speakers, who rightly said that this entire bill is unnecessary. Today, resources and forces should be directed towards health and saving the work of Poles, not saving the work of the Minister and his officials. I'll use one example. Here we are talking about changes to the Radio and Television Act, about subscription fees. Officials from the Ministry of Communications, state assets are transferred to the National Council to work on the subscription because Poles and Poles do not pay the subscription. Prime Minister, Poles and Poles do not pay their subscription not only because the information programmes (the bell) disinformed and dwindled with intrusive, virulent propaganda, at which the worst gadgets from the worst years of the Polish People's Republic appear as exemplary journalism, but also because there is nothing to see on this television. The chance offered by the pandemic is wasted to provide people with high-quality TV, radio, high-quality screenings of concerts, performances, movies because theatres, cinemas, etc. are closed. You waste this opportunity, you show up with smear, violent programs. If you change the TV program, you wouldn't have to work on your subscription, you wouldn't have to transfer officials from the Ministry of Assets and Communications to work on your subscription. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u174	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u175	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! Minister! Yes, I gave you a reading for the pillow, a fake pandemic of two, mainly devoted to PCR tests that don't really test anything. Minister, or rather: Mr. Great Hospitalist in the Teutonic Order - there was such a function, quite high, in the Teutonic Politbury - you play three cards with Poles, three cards marked many times. You've reorganized yourselves. I've called you guys from this place more than once, and it's probably gonna come back to me again and again, a reorganized crime group. It is about this current arrangement of power in which you are responsible so seriously that I hope, in my own time, also criminal. I ask you, sir, that this game of three cards (the bell) be included in a diagram, a table - or would you like to do a presentation at PowerPoint? - which would include all these ministerial, deputy, State Secretarys, Undersecretaries of State. Please balance it on paper, but on paper, before the image lift you bought yourself at the expense of Poles, compatriots, and after him. And if it were written there - let's limit it to ministers, vice-ministers, secretaries, undersecretaries of state - what are the costs of this process, i.e. how much money they make, how much money they make, what they look like in numbers, in absolute numbers, i.e. how many stools there were, and there are, how many zlotys it costs, divided into ministries. You're welcome, Mr. Big Hospital Manor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u176	I ask you to ask Mr Piotr Kaleta, the Law and Justice question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u177	Thank you very much, Marshal. Maybe I should start with Mr Braun. He's giving us these books. Mr. Braun, I'm waiting for the third volume of this book you're handing out: the false happiness of God, Grzegorz Braun, or the false thinking of Grzegorz Braun. Works collected. [[Applause]] First things first, ladies and gentlemen, because I would like to address the statements of two Members. Mr Frysztak was kind to say, to accuse... In corrigendum mode. No, no, no. In correction mode, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, don't bother me. You don't bother me now. ...the raising of salaries in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform you, I think that Mr Jakub Rutnicki will also support me, that the Wielkopolska local media report about the marshal of the Wielkopolska voivodship, the Marshal of the Platform - 11 thousand. prizes for the councilman of the PO, who is also the head of the Centre for Culture and Art in Kalisz, 1.5 times the salary for the director of the theatre and perhaps half the salary for the director of the district museum. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Giant money. It wouldn't be weird, but we function, as we know perfectly well, in times of pandemic, i.e. these facilities were simply closed. This is also repeated in other cities of Wielkopolska. Don't be silly. Ladies and gentlemen, the words of Mrs. Skowronska I will not comment on because I once commented on them. I would like to refer again to Mr Owl, who screamed so much here, because it is necessary to be an insolent man to say that we are... Mr Pierce, if you don't mind. If you talk to everyone like that, they'll correct us and we won't finish our debate by tonight. Excuse me, Marshal, I'm almost done. I would like to say that Mr Owl was gracious to say that we are world champions in deaths. It takes a man like Mr Owl to use such rhetoric. I just want to remind you of one thing. If Mr Owa talks about issues relating to health care, what were the recordings on which the then Minister of Health Arłukowicz said what to do with hospitals? They need to be eliminated. Mr. Marshal, he's not talking about anything. What if the Civic Platform were in power right now? That's some drama.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u178	The question will be asked by Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Let go of the lady, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I want to ask the question: Will the changes resulting from this law, which only seemingly removes part of the jobs, and in fact shifts tasks and positions, improve the government's work? Will they bring savings, or on the contrary, because first there will be huge costs associated with adapting naming and administration as a whole? Are there calculated adjustment costs and personnel costs? Is it not going to be that these changes will generate new, much larger resources that will have to come from the state budget? Have these changes been counted? Today, when all industries are on the verge of bankruptcy, Poles, our voters, want to know how much it will cost.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u180	Thank you very much, Member. In the procedure of correcting Mr Grzegorz Braun, who enjoys this form because he has the opportunity to present another position: pandemic 2.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u181	The Member is asking for this booklet. It's the first time we've run out, but we're thinking of printing. 100 pieces. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, That is, I assure you, the third volume, which is in the study, will deal primarily with the so-called case. Sharpeners and quacks, not medical ones, not the scientific nature of masking. Therefore, I recommend the third volume of the cycle, a false pandemic. The criticism of scientists and doctors, which is mainly about masking. Is Mr. Dziambor out of the hospital yet or is he still lying? Tell me, Mr. Braun. So much for correction, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u182	I ask you to ask the question of Mr... Corrigendum. Your name was used, right? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u183	For starters, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, but in your replacement, I would like to point out to Mr. PiS that he is not here to comment on the opposition questions. You are here to express a possible position as a Member, not as a commentary. If you're talking about how good things are in your day, I'd like to draw your attention to one point. During the PiS government, the debt in health care amounted to PLN 15 billion. What are you guys doing in the meantime? Did you? You guys bought yourself some useless masks. And that's what you should be talking about. By the way, yesterday at the internal affairs committee meeting, as you wanted to be vice-president, you were much more polite. I suggest we go back to those standards.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u184	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Kurzawa, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u185	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I have one question: Will this reform, this change also affect the voivodship offices? Are you going to throw away the other very good workers who remained after our PSL-PO term? Are you going to make this reform go even deeper to replace them with your losers? I also have a question: Do you not therefore forget that these people from the voivodship offices should be properly equipped and properly rewarded for being on the front line at the moment? Because, in fact, crisis management departments, health departments or other departments that deal directly with COVID are still underfunded and these people are working all the time, doing tasks below their qualifications, and the effort they put into their work is also disproportionate. I would appeal to pay attention not only to my salaries (the bell), but also to the salaries of ordinary officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u186	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister said that this law is intended to improve the functioning of the ministries. Indeed, the last few days have been constant improvements. I really think entrepreneurs cheer on how professional you are. Just remember to close the cemeteries and how you treated people who have been preparing for months when it comes to buying flowers. But I wanted to ask you about the National Sports Centre, a new institution to be set up in place of the liquidated Ministry of Sport. Minister, it's just worth telling the truth. It's not a law on administrative departments, it's a law on how to provide your great apanasses during a pandemic. You close the gastronomy, you close the fitness clubs, you close the shopping malls, but for your own people, of course, you prepare the proper stools. My question: Who will be president of the National Sports Centre? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And wouldn't it be Mrs Danuta Dmowska-Andrzejuk - the ex-minister of sport, and wouldn't that involve twice as much remuneration? That's the truth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u188	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska and then by the correction procedure - Mr Marek Sowa. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Different names for this law on administrative departments fell from this podium. I would say that, Minister: If you were honest, it wouldn't be a law on guns, it would be a law on the division of spoils. This is because you are still trying to power this carousel of stations. I thought one term would be enough to split up, split up your people. It started with the civil service corps that you had liquidated, and there was a law on the National Tax Administration, which the state generally reorganized, and every time it came out more expensive. During that time... Please answer when it's printed in the Official Journal of the Constitution, which means it's gonna be printed by a bill, the COVID one that gives medical benefits? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a sentence. In this case, you'd show that you're interested in people, not yourself. This is really sharing the loot, and you're not all omnibuses to move your people from place to place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u190	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Mark Owl.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much. I wanted to refer to Mr Kaleta's words, who said that the Ministry of Health's data on deaths cannot be quoted. Well, you have to quote them, because they simply show your true face. But it is not only the issue of deaths due to Coronavirus that is important here, but it must also be said very clearly that you are responsible for 50,000. additional deaths in 2020 Today people die on the streets because ambulances don't get there. They die in ambulances because there's no place for them in hospitals. Half a minute. You're accusing Arłukowicz of liquidating hospitals in Małopolska. That's not true. The government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party built a university hospital in Krakow for 1,000. The beds in which patients are treated today not only because of Coronavirus, repaired the children's university hospital for PLN 260 million. Show at least one investment in Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what you've done on such a scale. It's just too much for you, because all you do is do what you can get out of this country, what you can get out of companies, out of the ministry, out of public money. You're wondering how to just rip this country apart. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u192	Thank you very much. The list... I was mentioned. Mr Owl, you have mentioned Mr Mark Owl, Mr Mark Owl has mentioned your name, and so you will exchange your names, and there will be a correction for the correction. I promise I won't trade. Indeed, you have had your time, you have spoken without limits, and I therefore say, Mr President, that the list of Members of the questions has been exhausted. And the questions asked earlier will be answered by Minister Michał Dworczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I have to say, at first, I'm really sorry that so much... [[Game in the O.R.]] Minister, wait a minute. Ladies and gentlemen! Now the Minister is answering the questions you just asked, so I'd like a moment of peace and quiet. I am very sorry that so much space in these speeches instead of substantive statements has been occupied by invectives and accusations which are, one must say, mostly empty. I must also tell you that I am also a little surprised, because the answers to a large part of the questions that have been formulated here are in the law itself and in the impact assessment of the regulation, in the so-called. OSR, so just read it to know that. as regards the Legislative Board, neither the number of members which is set out in the Council of Ministers regulation nor the remuneration will change. This also applies to a number of other issues that have been raised here. With regard to the questions you asked for in writing, of course, you will have these answers, and I will address these few substantive questions that I have been able to note. As far as the Undersecretaries of State are concerned - this is the issue that raised you - I can only repeat that under the law these people will go to civil service. What does that mean? This means that all these people will have to decide whether or not to give up political activity to date. If they lead, for example. If they are councillors, they will have to choose either a councilman's mandate or a further job as Undersecretary of State and if they are members of the party: either a party membership or a job as Undersecretary of State. Here, the rules will be the same for everyone. It is a pity that you have not read the impact assessment of the regulation, because it is described there that it is not our invention, our special idea, but these are the solutions that have worked out both in Germany and in the UK. It is worth using good practices and it is worth introducing solutions that have the opportunity to improve the functioning of the administration. As regards the question, I ask you, whether this is a hidden attempt to raise salaries for parliamentarians, whose salaries are counted on the salary of the Undersecretaries of the State, no, nothing will change here, because they will be counted on the salary of the Undersecretaries of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Republic of Poland. There was another question about the Legislative Council, but here I was referring to this. This is all in the draft, of course, but I will repeat that the number of members of the Legislative Board will not change, nor will the remuneration of the members of the Legislative Board change. There have also been statements that prove that not only did the person making the statement not only read the bill, but that he is not fully aware of the functioning of the public administration. One of the parliamentarians said that there would be a new administrative unit of the government, this is about the public administration department, and that this confusion of the basic issues is really surprising to me. There was an accusation - by the way, because it does not concern this discussion about the bill - about the government and the law firm buying 308 limos. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, these 308 limousines are mostly cars purchased for the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways, Fiat Doblo or Renault Kangoo, who drive the streets and check if there are holes. That's what limos are like. And I will also add that none of these cars is intended for the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers - here I am talking about these personal trips to the government. You've got better. The question was to create a separate administration department: geology. Strengthen the position of the country's leading geologist. What effect will this have? In our assumption it will strengthen (The Bell) the protection of the interests of the Republic of Poland in the concession process. That's the assumption here. Can I have another 30 seconds? Mr Szczerba asked how many Undersecretaries of State are in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. Two Undersecretaries of State, sir, and if you are asking for an agreement between the Chancellery of the Prime Minister and the National Stadium, she is indeed being processed, because you know very well that it is not the Undersecretaries of State that process, prepare and process such agreements, only the Legal Department which, in agreement with the Public Prosecutor, prepares such a document and then signs with the company for which the Prime Minister issued the administrative decision and that the administrative decision was immediately enforceable, then all the tasks have been carried out and this agreement is at the final stage and will probably be signed this week. In the end, I will say that I will not go back at all, I wanted not to go back, but in one sentence I will say that this emotional play by Mr Owl to those who have lost their loved ones is simply disgusting and should never happen. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u194	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry. This can't be right. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 13.45. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 40 hours 13 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with a quorum before the votes. I ask all Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. 438 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The formal proposal was made by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition. Time - 1 minute. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Marshal, each of us present in the Chamber of Members today entered the Parliament building and, to my surprise, saw that this building could not normally be entered. We're used to the barriers around the Sejm, but the scale of these restrictions, the number of barriers, the number of police officers you've gathered here today is unbelievable. I get the feeling you're really scared of something. The question is, if you're going somewhere, for example. For the weekend, it's with this kind of security, too, and that's the number of railings you're moving around with. It's not like you can function normally. [[Applause]] I would like to ask Mr Kaczyński: What are you afraid of? Deputy Prime Minister. It's not like there's any protesters here... Mr... ...then there are thousands of cops and railings. You don't solve... Mr President, can you make a formal conclusion? Your Marshal, yes, I would like to make a formal conclusion. There you go. I would like to ask the Marshal to interrupt and complete the agenda for what Poles live: information about the budget, information about the COVID... Thank you very much, sir. ...and undressing all those railings... Thank you very much, sir. ...because they disgrace the Polish parliament. [[Applause]] Mr. President, it's about... Only Kaczyński in this House is afraid of people, no one is afraid... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...except for Mr. Kaczyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u196	Mr. President, Mr. President. Wait a minute, sir, I would like to ask you very much: with respect for each Member. This is not Mr. Kaczyński. This is Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] Secondly, sir, I am not finished yet. We care about your safety, Mr... I'll take care of my... ...for the security of all Members in this House. We'll be fine. The committee responsible has submitted... I'm sorry, because there's been a request for a recess, we're voting for a recess. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your Marshal says with respect to every Member, and Prime Minister Kaczyński says to the Member: sit down. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not expect any self-respect if we can't show it to others. [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask you to let our emotions cool off. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, thank you for your comments, really, I have heard them, thank you very much. We're in the middle of a vote. 450 Members voted. For - 214, 232 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The committee responsible has submitted a report on Parliament's draft laws amending the Law on Feed, print No 751. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, to hear the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law on government departments and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the draft law contained in print No 738 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 214-- for, 235-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent it to the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission for consideration. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of the report to be discussed at the current sitting of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. And a formal conclusion. There's an objection. So... Formal conclusion. No. Mr President, you have raised an objection, which I am voting for now. Have a seat. Have a seat, sir. There has been an objection, and we will now vote against it. Can I make a formal conclusion? Mr President, you have raised an objection, not a formal proposal, so we are voting on an objection. You can justify it. We are voting on this proposal. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal for a report to be submitted by the committee in time for consideration at this sitting will want to press the button. It's not working. It's not working. I know it's not working. It's working. I'll say it again. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the Commission's proposal to submit a report in time for consideration at this session of the Sejm would like to press the button. Who's against it? What's the hold-up? Marshal, this is a motion for you. This law completely changes the organization of Polish sport under the name: amendment of the Act on... He will not publish it at best, sir. Sit down, sir. We can always count on the fourth instance. Have a seat. But it's for you. We're in the middle of a vote. Sit down, sir. But this bill should be dealt with by the sports committee... We're out of points. Anyone could have taken the floor. But Members aren't just here to sit. 452 Members voted. 229 - for, 220 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. Information for the Member. Mr President, the law on departments always deals with a number of departments, and it always goes to the administration committee. You may attend committee meetings and take the floor. Thank you, sir. But the Seym isn't anymore. Marshal, I'm a member of this committee, but this bill changes... Sit down, sir. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Digitisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Senate Resolution on the Act on Electronic Service (Prints Nos 724 and 729). I ask Mr Jarosław Gonciusz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u197	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Senate Resolution on the Act on Electronic Service, print No 724. The Digital, Innovation and Modern Technologies Commission at its meeting on 3 November 2020 considered the above resolution and the amendments tabled to it. The committee therefore asks: The High Sejm agrees with the amendments of the Senate: 5, 83, 86 and 90 and the other amendments of the Senate accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u198	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate's amendments. Amendments 1, 4, 7, 8, 10 to 13, 15 to 18, 20 to 22, 24, 26 to 32, 34, 35, 43, 44, 46 to 49, 51, 53, 56, 57, 59 to 61, 63, 64, 66 to 70, 73, 74, 76 to 82, 89, 94 to 97, 103, 110, 111, 113 and 118. The Senate proposes changes of an editorial and legislative nature. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the above-mentioned amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. Four-for-four-five, no one's holding back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes to delete point 1 of Article. 2. Amendment 65 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 65 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 1 for, against - 438, 11 abstained. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes to delete point 3 of Article. 2. Amendments 19 and 55 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 19 and 55 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 11 - for, 440 - against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 5th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. the amendment to the calculation in Article. 2 point (8) (a) c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 277 - for, 177 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes to delete point 9 of Article. 2. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 2 for, 442 against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 9, the Senate proposes among others. Delete point (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Amendment 54 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 9 and 54 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was against 450, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 14, the Senate proposes to delete paragraph 14. 6 and 7 in Articles 6 and 7 15. Amendments 23, 105 and 112 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 14, 23, 105 and 112 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 1 for, against - 449, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 25th amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. Article 2 32. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was against - 439, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 33rd amendment to the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 The Senate proposes to add an article. 36a. Amendment 50 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 33 and 50 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 1 for, against -444, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 36th amendment, the Senate proposes to delete point 3 of Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Amendment 38 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 36 and 38 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. Ten for, against - 435, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 37th Amendment, the Senate proposes to amend point 4 of Article. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 37th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was against - 447, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 39th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 43. Amendment 98 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 39 and 98 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against 444, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 40th amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the mouth. Article 1 45. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 40th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was against - 435, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 41st Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of point 2 in Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 41st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was in favor of, against -443, holding off on 1. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 42nd amendment, the Senate proposes among others. In addition, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 1a 50. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 42nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 1 for, against - 447, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 45th amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 52. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 45th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was against - 437, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 52nd amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. Article 6 60. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 52nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 435, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 58th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. add § Article 1a 16 Laws - Cooperative Law. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 58th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. No one was in favor of -443, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 62nd amendment, the Senate proposes among others. add Article. 100b to the bill - Code of Criminal Procedure. Amendments 109 and 117 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 62, 109 and 117 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 1 for, against -434, 11 abstained. The Sejm, in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of the votes in favour, accepted the amendment. In the 71st amendment, the Senate proposes among others. the new wording of paragraph. Article 5a 59 Act on social security cash benefits in case of sickness and maternity. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 71st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. No one was in favor of -444, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 72nd amendment, the Senate proposes among others. new wording § Article 3 434 laws - Commercial Companies Code. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 72nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 1 for, against - 429, 10 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 75th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. Article 3 18 Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurers. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 75th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. No one was against 433, 10 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 83rd amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 125. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 83rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. The absolute majority is 228. Za - 227 Members, against - 225, abstained 2. In the absence of an absolute majority, the Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 84 to 93. The Senate reported it to the article. 127 Act containing amendments to the Act - Law on civil status records. In the 84th Amendment, the Senate proposes amendments to the paragraph. 1 and 2 in Article 2 10. Amendment 93 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 84 and 93, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was against, there were 440 Members, 11 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 85th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. Article 4 26. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 85th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 1 for, against - 452, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 86th Amendment, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 32a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 86th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 276 - for, 176 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 87th Amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. In Article 10, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 63. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 87th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. Nobody was for, 452 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 88th amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. Article 1 64. Amendments 91 and 92 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 88 and 91 and 92 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 90th amendment, the Senate proposes to amend point 1 in Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 90th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 279 - for, 178 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 99th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 144a. Amendment 115 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 99th and 115th will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 for, 442 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 100th amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 144b. Amendments 101 and 114 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 100, 101 and 114 would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 1 for, 443 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 102nd amendment, the Senate proposes a change in the paragraph. Article 2 145. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 102nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was against 450, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 104th amendment, the Senate proposes to amend points 1 and 2 in Article. 148. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 104th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 2 for, 447 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 106th Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. delete paragraph. Article 7 152. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 106th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 446, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 107th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the article. 153. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 107th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. No one was against - 435, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 108th Amendment, the Senate proposes a new wording of the paragraph. Article 1 155. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 108th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In 116th amendment, the Senate proposes among others. add point 2a in Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 116th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. In - 1, against - 437, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this end we concluded the Senate resolution on the Electronic Service Act. That concludes the vote, ladies and gentlemen. I'm calling a 10-minute break. Your marshal, I'll make a formal request to you. But I've announced a recess, my fellow Member. 10 minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 18 hours 15 min 25]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the budget law for 2021 (prints Nos 641 and 714). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u199	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for implementing the budget law for 2021, Government printing No 641, the committee's report in print No 714. At its meeting on 7 October, the Sejm sent the bill to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The Finance Commission considered this project on 28 October. The project itself and the so-called law. Around the budget is, of course, a tradition that accompanies every budget and in this case, such a law is also being procedated. The law, which regulates in some way the budget for 2021, regulates wages, regulates other factors concerning the implementation of the budget in a rather unusual situation, because in a situation of pandemic and quite large financial uncertainty. Therefore, in the act of limitations, which strengthen financial security. At the same time, these restrictions impose certain rigors, especially wage conditions, rewards, etc. The discussion at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance was actually about trying to throw away further restrictions, i.e. asking for the elimination of further articles in the registered law, which impose certain restrictions. Finally, the committee adopted amendments extending the provisions for the flexibility of local government financial management in the fiscal rules of local governments for 2021, namely those introduced for 2020 in the amendment. It is clear that the effects of the pandemic will also continue in 2021 and that these solutions have been extended to 2021. However, as during the discussion most of the amendments tabled concerned the elimination of the provisions of the around-the-budget law, many articles, the act is ultimately submitted to the committee in accordance with the annex. At the same time, the applicants submitted minority proposals. Such minority proposals shall be submitted by the committee 10. Thank you very much. The Commission, of course, recommends that the whole law be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u200	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u201	Thank you very much. This time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, Madam Marshal, I present my position on the Around Budget Act 2021. Of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports this law in the presentation by the committee. At the same time, it proposes to adopt amendments to this law, inter alia. in order to extend the revenue from the reprivatisation fund and to be used for the acquisition by the State Treasury of shares or shares in companies not only for the years 2019 and 2020, but also for 2021. I also propose to increase funding for public cultural institutions. I'm thinking of the most important financial scale. The amendment allows the issue of bonds for the Polish Development Fund SA and the recapitalisation of it with the amount of PLN 6.6 billion. The PFR here has had great credit for supporting the business sector during the first wave of pandemics. The recapitalisation and financial reinforcement of the PFR in this case will provide some security and financial response opportunities as aid to entrepreneurs for 2021. I therefore submit these amendments. Of course, the Law and Justice Club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u202	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Marta Golbik, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u203	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Civic Coalition club, we are unable to support this bill. We have already discussed this at the first reading and at the committee meeting. That is why we have tabled a number of amendments. This law is one major freeze of wages in public finance units at the level of 2020. According to this bill, increases will not be given to judges, prosecutors, assesors and referees to the court. What is extremely painful, these freezes will also affect more than 540 thousand. teachers. This was mentioned by Mrs Shumilas at the committee meeting. As you can see, she was probably not convincing enough because you didn't back out of those freezes. That is why we are making amendments today that delete all articles on the freezing of teachers. 412,000. persons entitled to provide pensions to uniformed services and members of their families will also be affected by the freezing caused by States. The rapporteur, who is also the chairman of the Committee on Public Finance, said that the freezing of wages is a natural consequence of the situation in which we are in. If you think about it that way and say that this is the natural consequence of the situation in which we are in, then it seems a little incomprehensible that on the one hand you are freezing teachers' salaries or judges, prosecutors, asses, and on the other hand, you grant funds in this bill to modernise the lobby's interiors in the government holiday center in Łańsk... And they buy limos. ...you buy limousines, or, recently, we have learned from public information, you grant inadequately high subsidies to celebrities, who are very often closely linked to the camp of power. In this law, you also waive the loan granted to the Solidarity Fund from the Demographic Reserve Fund, as Mrs Hennig-Kloska will talk about. We have here a number of very inconsistent provisions, very inconsistent with what the President said. Let me repeat once again - if we are in a special situation, if we have to freeze wages, let it be consistent. The state is selective in treating teachers - over 540 thousand. people will have frozen salaries - but you grant funds to people who are closely related to you, or you allocate them to renovating your own holiday centers. This is absolutely unacceptable. As I say, we are making amendments today that delete all articles on teachers. We have already tabled amendments on other professional groups. Surely we will not support this law in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u204	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u205	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Last year, when you financed your electoral promises from the Demographic Reserve Fund, you promised the Poles and Poles that you would repay these debts. It's the debts you'll have for the next generations - our children and our grandchildren. What's with the finger? The Demographic Reserve Fund was supposed to be an expression of intergenerational solidarity. We were to postpone our pensions, Mr, Minister, so that the next generation would not have to pay a horrendously high tax to raise our pensions. We put aside so that our children and our grandchildren could work peacefully without worrying about what pensions would be paid out of, because they would have to work alone for two people from our generation. Therefore, the estimated pensions are so low today. What are you doing? You're eating it today. Where's your intergenerational solidarity? If you're talking so much about social solidarity, think about what's gonna happen to you, after your governments. You're worse than the communists and you're gonna leave us a bigger debt to pay than Gomulka. That's all I can tell you. It's very easy for you to make money. Closing the cemeteries? Of course, after all, you will pay compensation from the budget. Closed in November and December of the shopping gallery? I mean, you're gonna pay out of the budget. Closing the slopes in winter, though ski instructors live exclusively from this? I mean, it's gonna pay off from the budget. [[♪ The bell ♪]] compensation. Only the government, sir, doesn't have any money. These damages will have to be paid by taxpayers. Start thinking. Stop throwing money at them more than the communists did. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Right.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u206	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After this emotional speech, I just want to draw attention to one thing. At that time, however, something was being built and after 1989 at least something could be sold and privatized. That's what I'm paying attention to. That's for Game not for Goomółki. On the other hand, when we examine this law - probably in a moment we will examine in committee the main budget law, print No 640 - The left is already sure that the PiS has no idea how to get out of the crisis and what the budget should look like for next year. There are many inconsistencies and many question marks in these documents. We have been calling for a long time - show us the real state of public finances, show us what the real level of government debt is, because today we already know that public debt is already the amount of PLN 1300 billion. Indeed, in a moment we will all have to repay this debt for decades to come. Of course, there is no doubt that, especially at such a difficult time as the epidemic, you have to borrow, you have to think about the deficit, but you have to do it in an absolutely smart and reasonable way. In this document, you freeze the pay of the administration, you deprive the teachers of the raises, you deprive the service of the uniforms of the prize fund, which is, in short, you're probably doing this kind of thing for the public. On the other hand, when you look at macroeconomic data, you plan to increase private consumption by more than 4% in 2021. If it's going to grow, it's going to be a question of what. If there is no increase in wages, if these wages are frozen, then surely consumption will not increase and will not drive the economy. It is similar in these documents as regards issues related to the spending of funds and the objectives for which these funds should be spent. We pointed out that the Around Budget Act contains a statement of expenditure of not less than 2,2%. GDP for defence. The question is whether today, during the pandemic period, we are to spend on cannons, tanks, military equipment, planes, weapons. It's not like we're gonna fight the coritos on planes. Today we have a big economic crisis and today we have a big crisis in terms of health protection and until we are asked to make a correction. We are in favour of the development of the Polish army, but nothing will happen if we stop these expenses for at least a year, because 0.2% , i.e. going down to 2% GDP, this is the amount of nearly PLN 5 billion that can and must be allocated to health protection, because today it is a key issue. After this budget, of course, we are beginning to understand the policy of the Polish government: in July it was a great joy that there would be money from the European Union, today everything points to this, and tomorrow we will probably hear from the Prime Minister that these funds from the European Union will not be. There will be no funds from the European Union's Reconstruction Fund, through our senseless attitude regarding the vetoing of this budget and the vetoing of this Reconstruction Fund. It's a completely incomprehensible thing. Knowing that over the next three years the amount of PLN 103 billion will come from the Reconstruction Fund itself, we would have constructed this budget completely differently and this document would have been completely different. You do not want to do this, you act to the detriment of Poland, you act to the detriment of our entrepreneurs, you act to the detriment of our citizens. The question is: Is Law and Justice a party that operates according to national interests, vetoing the budget of the European Union and not allowing the Fund to be mobilised for reconstruction? I don't think so. Think about it, because there's still time. To conclude, I would like to stress one thing: in this budget there are many unknowns, the budget is absolutely unacceptable, this law is unacceptable in such a form, and the Left Club will therefore vote against the proposal for a print law No 641. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u208	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal... I very much regret that the Member does not have a mask. Mask, sir. Oh, I'm sorry. Excuse me, sir, it's for the sake of... Thank you very much. But he always had... That's why I was so surprised. I'm so sorry. Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law contains a number of proposals to amend a number of different laws in order to generate savings for the budget 2020/2021. This law limits a number of expenditures, to put it simply: money is taken, which previously under various laws have been granted for important purposes or tasks. What expenses are limited, at whose expense? These are examples of some of them. It starts with education, reaching the resources which, according to the Teacher's Charter, are allocated, first, to the professional improvement of teachers, second, to the payment of teachers' prizes for their achievements, thirdly for methodical advice, fourthly the social benefit fund is reduced, bringing the basic amount back to the year 2018. We know the situation in education, that remote teaching requires additional preparation, and therefore cuts, making these savings seems very problematic. While it is said that these measures will be complemented by EU funds, this has already been known before, and European funds were not intended to replace national ones but to complement them in this area. Similarly, the assumption of a reduction in the write-down to the social fund for persons entitled to provide pensions to uniformed services and their family members is reduced to the level of 2018. It is appropriate to provide for the possibility to transfer funds to finance air rescue operations, which should have been implemented before. In 2021, it is assumed that allowing the transfer of treasury securities to finance the "Initiate of Excellence" programme - research university is intended and continues the activities of the previous year. According to last year's announcement, it is possible to redeem the loan received by the National Water Farm of Poland, which will improve their difficult situation. We remember the dispute we had with the amendment of the Solidarity Fund for Disabled Persons Act, which received a loan from the Demographic Reserve Fund for the funds allocated to the Social Insurance Fund, for the payment of additional benefits to pensioners. This loan shall be redeemed by a transfer of an appropriate amount from the budget to the Demographic Reserve Fund. In conclusion, the Act, first of all, introduces transfers, which creates the possibility of financing actions which are not included in the Budget Act, second, makes a number of social benefits, rewards or salaries freezes, which cannot be accepted. It is understandable that there is a difficult pandemic situation, but these restrictions are too large and contain a certain element, which concerns the reduction of benefits that were expected by different professional groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u210	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This budget is the budget of the crisis: it is the result of the crisis and it announces the crisis, it announces the continuation and continuation of the economic crisis, because it is designed and cut in such a way as to survive under the conditions of the moving lockdown, it is cut and designed as if the state that the government has introduced this year, already twice closing various industries: gastronomy, hoteling, gyms, closing selectively, with God knows what reasons, industries, individual industries in trade... The store is closed and the store is open. On what basis? I think it's a lottery. [[Applause]] Why does the government work like that? Because he does not want to take note of one basic truth: the whole effort of the state in terms of the epidemic, when it comes to Coronavirus, must be focused on the health system. And we do not see in this budget that this effort should be concentrated there, because this budget has to deal with, as the Polish state does today, all areas of economic or social life. If you have to watch the gym and the shops and the restaurants and every other business area, how can you concentrate on helping the sick, the needy, those who need to be treated? Of course, no country is able to sustain itself in this way, so we have a budget that promises an even bigger crisis. We call for reassurance, all the more so because, as we stress, there is no convincing evidence that a lockdown policy, which limits the amount of money in a country that makes the state spend money on compensation, has any fundamental impact on the improvement of the health system. [[Applause]] There is no evidence of this and this budget should therefore be revolutionised towards an open economy, an economy open to making money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u212	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. I regret to say that the Member does not follow the recommendations and does not have a mask. It is very sad that you do not care about the Members and employees of the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u213	Miss Marshal Honourable! I would never, ever dare suggest to you what to wear and what to take off, so I don't really understand... Mr President, you are breaking the rule. Please proceed to the point. ...as the High House could have led to such a state of idiocy - let's not be afraid of that word, Your Marshal - to discuss the details of the costumes of the people present in this Chamber. Let us not do this, Marshal, let us not violate the seriousness of the High House to a greater extent than has been done so far. I present to you, Your Marshal, on the occasion of... I already have one. You got the first volume, and this is - straight from the printer - volume two. It's a fake pandemic. The criticism of scientists and doctors. What do you say to people who die of COVID in hospitals? What do you say about those who die of other diseases? I understand you're gonna give me the marshal enough time to speak out of this speaker so that I can take this issue seriously. However, since we are considering the paragraph on the around budget law, I will pass ad rem. The first thing is: Who listens to this from the government at all? With all due respect to the secretaries, the Undersecretaries of State. Who listens to this in the High House? Most of them have done their job, most of them can go to a smoker or a cafeteria. That's the norm in the High House. And it is as well as it was perfectly diagnosed by my venerable previous speaker and colleague from the circle, that this is the budget of disaster, the budget of disaster. It's already heavily immersed in the Titanic, and you're trying to patch up the holes that you've made in this unit, because our country isn't gonna destroy any virus, but it's gonna be ruined by your decisions and omissions. And let us remind you that this is the year in which Minister Emilewicz venerable gave Poles visions of spending money from a helicopter, this is the year in which Mr. Santa and he's giving presents to Poles before Christmas. And this is a disaster. My hair ate when I read that you're erasing (the bell) prize funds, bonuses. Oh, that must be really bad if even in your subordinate services you're erasing these funds. We can't put our hands to this, we can't put our hands on it, we can't support this latin because we'd indirectly be involved in the crime that's being committed here, the crime of bringing the general danger to the state, the nation, including its budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u214	Thank you, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward for the question? If yes, please sign in. If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mrs Kinga Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u215	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice has humiliated teachers both verbally and financially since the beginning of its reign. At the beginning you blocked them the possibility of getting a job promotion more quickly, i.e. simply higher pay, you reduced their leave for health compensation, you cut all the housing allowances for the poorest teachers, the right to a plot, development benefits, the right to an apartment for a teacher who has retired, pension or teacher compensation, compensation for teachers in case of failure to achieve the average statutory salary. That's too much to replace in one minute. You took everything from them. These teachers barely get over 2,000. zł. And now you're taking money away from them for professional improvement (the bell), payouts for prizes. You're taking everything from them. Why does every reform have to pay for every crisis just poor teachers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u216	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left. There is no Member. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Referring to my predecessor's question - in fact, in the around budget bill you cut money for improving teachers' professional skills, for the social fund, and there is no money in the budget for next year's teacher increases. But today we have read the law on the departments that Minister Kopci, who is the Undersecretary of State, will grant the salary from January 1st, a raise, and he will be able to earn 21,000. zł. Why? Why do you function like this? Why should teachers pay for this reform, for your inability, and your ministers for the fact that the schools were the reason for the pandemic, for the fact that remote teaching has been misguided, they are to receive increases because they are being introduced [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the Civil Service Act? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u218	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u219	Chairman of the Kaczyński Committee! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's a lot of talk here about the state budget, hiding expenses, moving funds. And I ask: What about your charms over the budget will the average Polish and the average Pole have? Have you already praised that we have the highest wholesale electricity prices in Europe? I know you're artificially blocking it and paying it back, but this string between the artificial retail price and the wholesale electricity is still growing. After all, if you pay for it, it's not you, or the government, because you can't make any gold, it's us, the taxpayers. And your second success - recent research, analysis. You're not bragging about him either? Poland has the highest inflation throughout the Union. How can a paramedic or a nurse who earns 2600 gross keep up with food prices rising from month to month? Instead of continuing to deal with ideology, propaganda and insulting yourself with help from the Union, deal with people's real problems. Inefficient economists, now [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you: How to live? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u220	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to claim two professional groups. The first is teachers. We want, High Izbo, a modern school. But what the Ministry of Education and the Minister are doing is going in the opposite direction. There are no increases for teachers, reduction of the social fund, freezing at the level of 2018, no or minimum prizes, and almost at the same level education subsidies for local self-government units, when it takes a lot of money to make this education work, because many children are out of the system - this is all going in the wrong direction. The second group consists of employees of widely understood public finances. For this professional group, whose work often depends on prizes, the effectiveness of these employees, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The bounty fund is freezing. What are we going to do, gentlemen, in what direction are these changes going? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u222	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am lacking in the budget in consideration of a very large expenditure, which is something that has been said and not spoken of at all. There are even certain suspicions that because of this, the government provoked abortion-related violence, because on the one hand, it enraged abortion supporters and then enraged abortion opponents with the fact that it did not publish all of this. In my opinion, it's all about hiding one thing. Instead of acting as a normal government, i.e. allowing foreign companies to compete on the Polish market, the government is conducting some negotiations with American nuclear power plants through the US government. In a normal country, the capitalist simply comes, builds power plants and earns or loses, that's his problem. The Polish government does not add any gold. And it turns out that we're gonna lay out some heavy billions. There are suspicions that this is about transferring these billions to completely different goals (the Bell) that this is just a false flag. So that I would very much like to get a written explanation of what it's actually like to buy nuclear power plants from the United States. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u224	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u225	I will also ask for a written answer to the question that must be raised by every stateman who is looking at this crater, not the funnel after the bomb, but the crater after the meteor hit. This is the size of a budget hole that will only grow. Write to me what they look like in the finance department studies on the prospects of introducing new taxes, that is, what will be the latest scream of fashion and the scream of despair of Polish entrepreneurship when it comes to new taxes in the coming season, with particular emphasis on cadastral tax. Are we working on this tax right now? And does the finance department have a denomination or an exchange of means of payment in Poland? That's a very big question. Tell me if that's what's on your mind. How high is this...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u226	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 82 of this law on the Charter of the Large Family, the government announces the need to increase the limits for the implementation of this law because of the higher than expected number of applications submitted by multi-children who have or have ever had at least three children. The reason for this is, as is stated in the explanatory memorandum, in addition to the increase in the number of companies offering discounts to large families, also the increase in the number of third-borns and further children in families. However, recent press reports indicate that the 500+ programme did not, as assumed, affect the rapid growth of births in our country. The number of children has not increased and will not increase. Barbara Socha, deputy director of the family, work and politics, also reported this earlier. Therefore, and bearing in mind that the Large Family Card is entitled to a child, respectively, until the age of 18 or until the age of 25 in the case, [[♪ The bell ♪]] As the child continues to study, I would like to ask how the calculation of the increase in births of third and subsequent children in families was made. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u228	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u229	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! An amendment was tabled to increase the resources for the Polish Development Fund. I wanted to ask you what this money is meant to be for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u230	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! I have two short questions. The first question concerns the Demographic Reserve Fund. The funds from this fund, which were allocated to the Solidarity Fund in the form of a loan... This loan is cancelled. Therefore, I wanted to ask why you are stealing the funds that were intended to be used to pay pensions, among others. For my generation, for a generation of 40-year-olds, 30-year-olds, 50-year-olds. These state measures are stealing through this bill and I want to ask why. The second question concerns the second group: drivers, vehicle owners. They pay systematically, with each technical examination, the costs of registration in the Central Register of Vehicles and Drivers. Perhaps it is not too high a fee, while it is intended to be used for the development of this register, for the provision of further electronic services to this group, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which facilitate the life of drivers and owners of vehicles. Why are you stealing these funds as well? Why do you take money that drivers earn hard and then pay under these charges? Can't you afford to do the things that are meant to be? You're only following the priority of distribution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u232	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u233	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to ask the government why you cut the teachers so modestly instead of cutting them off once. TV. If you decide to reduce the subsidy to public television, this amount will amount to PLN 2 billion. If you wanted not to pay the advance on the military, we would have an additional 5 billion PLN. Then a teacher who makes 2,000 would not have to have a frozen or reduced benefit fund or support in training. You didn't think that remote teaching was necessary... You're saying you're going to reimburse 500 zlotys. But teachers teach remotely almost all this year and have already incurred the cost. Teachers bought the equipment (the bell) and the state does not want to recognise receipts from the past as part of the settlement. And last night's air carrier strike. Well, you don't see some things. Given how you prepare your guns and think about your own raises, it becomes understandable that you don't think about normal people. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u234	Thank you, Member. Mr Michael Szczerba. There's no envoy. The last question will be asked by Mr Czesław Siekierski, the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u235	The Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law 2021 determines the implementation of the budget in the proposed assumptions, it can be said to be a necessary part of it. So my question is whether this law should not be dealt with together with the budget law, so that these things simply be clear, connected and clearer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u236	Thank you very much, sir. We will now move on to the answer to the questions. The answers will be given remotely. As the first Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy... Excuse me, the first Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr. Sławomir Gadomski. You're welcome. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We are waiting for a call, so at this time we will listen to Minister Sebastian Skuza, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. The Minister will speak, and we will try to get a connection at that time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In answer to questions about teachers, I would like to point out that this year teachers, like administrations, have received 6% increases with the impact of 2021. The subsidy of the educational part increases by PLN 2200 million. This year there will be additional funds for teachers of about PLN 300 million from the state budget, as well as an increase in subsidies for JST. The measures envisaged for teachers are those 500 zlotys that Mrs Skowrońska spoke about. As far as freezing is concerned, the company social benefit fund is mainly frozen here. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is often used in times of crisis. I can quote that the same situation was in 2015. When the 2015 budget was constructed, the base for freezing was from 2012. On the issue of measures to educate teachers, I would like to point out that here too it is possible to talk not only about budgetary resources but also about EU funds. As far as EU projects for 2021 are concerned, this growth is high, because it is assumed that there will be an increase in funding for teacher training, training from 19 million to 69 million in EU funds. As far as inflation issues are concerned, we are assuming an inflation rate of 3.3% this year, a clear drop of 1.8% next year. As regards the increase in teachers' salaries or salaries in the budgetary sphere, there is a principle here, it can be said, social solidarity: all groups covered by the Budgetary Act retain the same level of remuneration and also for all these groups, the standard prize fund is not created in 2021, only awards can be awarded, but for example, from staff savings or sickness savings. There was also a question about the Polish Development Fund. These funds will be earmarked for the company's statutory activities. We know what the task is now in terms of a shield for entrepreneurs, and that is why these 6.5 billions are needed for recapitalisation, for new projects, e.g. in the area of housing. There was also a question about the Demographic Reserve Fund and the waiver of the loan. I would like to point out, as I stressed at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, that the loan of PLN 8.7 billion was repaid in 2019. Savings were generated under the Social Insurance Fund grant and these funds were reimbursed in 2019 so that this fund was rebuilt in the loan part. As regards the issues related to the CEPiK and the financing of this IT project, I would like to point out that the CEPiK is also linked to other IT systems, and the surpluses in this fund could be allocated to a contribution to the State budget. And last question: Should the bill be correlated and dealt with with the budget law? As a matter of fact, they've been put together, that's what's really happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u238	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws (prints Nos 723 and 728). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws. The draft law is contained in print No 723, and the committee's report is in print No 728. I would like to remind you that on 29 October, this was addressed to these committees, namely the protection of the environment and the local government, the project in question. On 3 November, the first reading took place in these two committees, followed by work after first reading, resulting in the joint committees presenting a report on printing No 728. High Izbo! In waste management in Poland, rules of conduct have been in place for years, according to which it is essential to prevent waste from arising through reasonable planning of activities in various fields. The waste should be further prepared for re-use, recovered and recycled, recovered in the combustion process and stored as a last resort. The main legal act here is the Waste Directive 2008/98 implemented by the Waste Act of 14 December 2012. High Izbo! Waste management, which requires the proper management of many actors: local and voivodship authorities, waste collection and treatment companies, waste producers, requires changes to the system and response to emerging problems. For 2 years we have been hearing about the increasing costs of municipal municipal waste management systems, as well as the difficulties in achieving the levels of recycling and preparation for the re-use of municipal waste imposed on municipalities. For years, municipalities have also signalled problems with access to municipal waste treatment facilities, including waste incineration plants. Art. 1 of this project contains amendments to the Law of 13 September 1996 on the maintenance of cleanliness and order in municipalities. Provision is made to calculate the level of preparation for the re-use and recycling of municipal waste for 2020 for four parts of municipal waste: paper, metals, plastics and glass, not for all municipal waste. This is the most favourable way, one of the four ways allowed by European Union law. This is how this level was calculated until 2019 and in previous years. The current provision in the 2020 law has certainly been a superregulation of national law in relation to European Union law. The change will enable municipalities to reach the required levels, 50% The Environmental Protection Inspection will therefore not have to impose national penalties estimated at PLN 900 million. The calculation of recycling levels for all municipal waste will be applied from 2021. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 Amendment 1 also sets out the levels of preparation for re-use and recycling of municipal waste for the years: 2025 by weight. For 2021 and 2021, 2026 and 2029 and 2031 and 2034, these levels are to be determined by a regulation of the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs in accordance with the text of the draft report of the Joint Committee on Printing No 728. In the course of the work of the joint committees, the legislators made it clear to me that the same matter should not be regulated, on the one hand, by the law, for 2025 and 2035, and in the other cases by a regulation. On the other hand, it is a matter of no doubt that the regulation of the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs defines how these levels are to be calculated and the conditions under which waste is to be counted into waste prepared for reuse. Other amendments to Article 1 is the legislative consequence of the above mentioned provisions. Art. 2 contains amendments to the Waste Act. Article 1 is deleted from this law. 35b and Article 35b 35c introduced in December 2014 by the Senate print project No 2769. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 35b sets a limit on the 30% share of thermally converted municipal waste and resulting from the transformation of municipal waste in relation to the total mass of municipal waste generated. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 35c in turn concerns the list of installations intended for thermal transformation of waste... Marshal, I'd like to ask you for a moment more... Half a minute, please. ...because these are very important things. I'll be brief. But half a minute, Member. Article 4 is replaced by the following: 35c concerns the list of installations for thermal treatment of waste, but these provisions did not function because no regulation was issued pursuant to Article. 35b. 4. Municipal authorities have been seeking for years to build local waste incineration plants which could serve as municipal heating plants supplying energy to heating systems. A barrier to the expansion of local distributed energy is the 30% limit set out in Article. 35b. It should be stressed that municipalities improve selective municipal waste collection systems, increase levels of preparation for re-use and recycling of municipal waste in line with increasing successive requirements, and the amount of mixed municipal waste decreases, so maintaining a limit of 30% the thermal transformation of municipal waste and the treatment of municipal waste is not justified. Thank you very much, Member. Waste management plans are an important tool for monitoring waste streams: municipal, voivodship and national waste management plans. Thank you very much, Member. I'm almost done, Marshal. But I have already extended you by one minute, Member. The second amendment to the Waste Act concerns a 4 months shift in deadlines for the preparation and submission of reports on the Voivodship Waste Management Plans and the National Waste Management Plan for the years 2017-2019. The voivodship boards will be required to submit a report to the Sejm and the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs by 30 April 2021 and the Minister for Climate Affairs will submit a report to the Council of Ministers by 31 October. Thank you very much, Member. That's very... Mrs... According to Art. 8 The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of its publication, except for amendment 9b, which shall enter into force later on 1 January, and the joint committees, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the committee of the local government, have adopted the draft by 52 votes in favour, with 1 abstention. On behalf of the joint committees, I ask the High House to adopt the draft contained in print report No 728. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u240	Thank you, Member. You're welcome to stick to your time. I didn't come up with these time limits. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. And please, once again, Mrs Anna Paluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u241	Thank you very much. High Izbo! On behalf of my club, it is my honor to present an opinion on the bill submitted. Of course, I will not discuss it in detail again. I just want to say that this project is facing some of the problems that are being signaled, i.e. there will be a chance to maintain, achieve the levels of recycling legally imposed on municipalities and prepare for the re-use of municipal waste, which will make it possible for municipalities not to spend money on penalties, but will only be able to turn this money into properly conducted, so to speak, waste management. The project is aimed at reducing the operating costs and improving municipal waste management systems, as well as facilitating access to municipal waste treatment facilities. I would like to stress here that municipalities have the opportunity to analyse and monitor annually the stream of municipal waste transferred to thermal transformation in order to achieve levels of preparation for re-use and recycling of municipal waste. This is a very important change, this 30% introduced by the Senate project in 2014 has a chance to disappear through the adoption of this law, but, please, countries, municipalities, both at municipal level, i.e. implementation of municipal waste management plans and at voivodeship level, this waste stream can be monitored, i.e. there are tools to simply maintain these parameters which, I say, impose EU law on us. The question I would like to mention further: the repeal of the Article. 35b and 35c of the Waste Act of 14 December 2012 do not require regulation of any inter-temporal issues, because these provisions have in fact never functioned, i.e. it has never been issued pursuant to Article. 35b. 4, so there's no danger here, no confusion in the rules. I would like to go back to the point I was talking about as rapporteur, namely to some inconsistencies, that for 2025, 2030 and 2035, according to the adopted committee report, these levels were set in the law and in the remaining years in the regulation. This is the inconsistency that the legislators have brought to our attention. My club is facing and, therefore, on behalf of the Club Law and Justice, I am making an amendment which, first, refers to the change of the second in Article. 1, i.e. expressis verbis shows the levels of preparation for reuse and recycling of waste that municipalities should achieve in individual years. The legislative consequence of this change is also the amendment relating to the third amendment, to Article. 5g, which should be compatible accordingly. As rapporteur, I have extended my deadline, and now I am shortening it. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I will allow myself to make amendments to the proposed bill. Thank you very much, Member. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is clear that the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u242	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Waldemar Slugocki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u243	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club to refer to the bill on which we are proceeding. I would like to stress, ladies and gentlemen, that the project is extremely important, expected, especially by the units of the local government at the basic level, which are responsible for the system of purification of local government units and the collection of pollution from the population. And, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to point out that this change in my assessment is a contradiction in the actions of the Government of Law and Justice, because, on the one hand, the government responds to and liberalizes - because it also gives this possibility to European Union law - legislation on, among other things. high costs of municipal municipal waste management systems or solves problems with waste management caused by epidemics. Thirdly, it provides an opportunity to resolve the difficulties in achieving the levels of recycling imposed on municipalities by law and to prepare for the re-use of municipal waste. It addresses the issue of difficult access to municipal waste treatment facilities and finally takes into account the parallel work on the extended producer responsibility system, while, on the other hand, states, we can refer to the rules that are in force and impose much higher costs on local government units in comparison with the contested law. Let me quote you and remind you of the current regulation of the Council of Ministers on environmental charges, which are growing at an astronomical rate. Well, imagine that by the end of 2017, the rate of the waste storage charge was PLN 24.15 per tonne, in 2018 this cost was already PLN 140 per tonne, in 2019 - attention - PLN 170 per tonne, and in 2020, i.e. the current year - PLN 270 per tonne. So please pay attention to the apparent movement, although we are also happy with it and absolutely on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club I welcome the proposed change, the Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of this bill, but I would like to draw attention also on some hypocrisy of the rulers and real costs, which are mainly borne by taxpayers, Poles, Polish households. This is one of the elements that I would like to draw attention to, but there is another element that I would also like to mention which government and minister responsible for. the environment should pay attention, namely the largest import of garbage into Poland. We know very well, gentlemen, that since 2016 incredible amounts of garbage have been entering Poland, which has not yet been the case in its scale and structure since 1989. Here, too, intervention is necessary and firm legal provisions are necessary which would prevent these wastes from being imported into Poland. It is not enough, please imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that issues related to the disposal of these waste rest on the shoulders of individual Polish municipalities. They are often weak rural communities, which have several- or several-million-dollar budgets and are unable to deal with these problems which they create. Neither has the government prepared systemic solutions in this area. Of course, we have a swallow in the form of this procedated law, which, yes, liberalizes this and gives us the opportunity to build, of course, local self-government units small, small incinerators, which can also create alternative sources of supply for local communities, for example, in energy or heat. But in comparison with the problems I have presented, ladies and gentlemen, this is just a symbol, not a rational and actual solution to the problems. Therefore, in this context, in the context of the debate on this draft law, I call on the Minister to lean on the problem of waste management, maintaining cleanliness in the municipalities in a comprehensive way (The Bell) and being honest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u244	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In the context of this law I wanted to raise a few problems which in the system, I would say, waste industry, because this is already an industry, put our government, a country in a rather strange situation. For almost a year there were two ministries: the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Climate, while the Minister of Environment was in charge. It's the first time I've ever seen a country in which the Minister is a minister and not a minister. Imagine the confusion of competence, because it is necessary to establish competences for these ministries, there are many directors of departments, one accepts, the other gives away, the chaos that emerges from it. Secondly, we are in a hurry with laws, and these are laws that regulate certain waste management rules for years, and we force it, and yet we drop almost everything on local governments and on these small producers, i.e. the inhabitants, and we tell them all: you have to adapt. And they say they're not prepared for it. How we introduce e.g. BDO system, waste database? After all, we've been doing this for a few years and we're still unprepared. It's a plague, and right now... This, of course, creates a second chaos, because these poor communities say, "How are we supposed to do this?" This law, which, of course, we will also support as a club of the Left, regulates something that we introduced earlier, among others. recycling level of 50% by weight for 2020 for all waste, we have introduced this by law. Now we only regulate it in relation to the following wastes: glass, paper, metals or plastics. We're not gonna get that 50%. Then why did we impose it? It could not be said: listen, it is in perspective to e.g. 2024 we have to reach this 50% ? And I'm pretty sure that next year we can update the bill again, because we can't reach that 50%. for all waste, because that's what this is about. So why stress these municipalities, why impose certain rigors, why launch state supervisory institutions that need to control it, how badly we prepare these laws? Finally, we have no control over some of the elements. My previous speaker was talking about it. I was at a meeting of dozens of communes and everyone outside one commune who had been running the case for several years said they couldn't handle wild dumps. There are no rules. This is particularly true of the fact that those who create wild landfills take dangerous waste, store it at a private owner's place, and the municipality has a problem because it has to eliminate it. Nobody else, just the commune. Such a person, such an institution is unsupervised, without anything, and then the company is dissolved and it's gone. And the municipality needs to clean up the whole issue. For those dozens of communes where I was at meetings, one in a few years managed to deal with this problem, and she had to pay for it mostly herself. And how many municipalities can afford that? Here's another mess we need to control, or it'll all be from to, from to. And finally foreign waste. The Left Club is seriously considering whether or not to adopt a project prohibiting the import of hazardous waste from abroad, because this is another area that we do not control. ...not allowed, sir. It's forbidden. It's forbidden, and the landfills are, right? So where are the government institutions that are watching this? At the border or at the warehouse? Well, they are. You're confusing two things. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Spratava - go ahead and see what it looks like. Well, they don't watch here - that's another element. It is a good thing that very many institutions have finally been consulted. I say good, finally. Please note this at the end. The government does not consult many institutions. I'm talking about the whole thing. This is the arrogance of power. Here fortunately there was a consultation and fortunately, of course, it is beneficial for the recipients, i.e. for the municipalities, therefore there is support. And finally, this is the example: these are building waste that must (the bell) - I am finishing - be sorted. We do not have landfills, we do not have special transport, we have nothing in this area, and since 2021 we should be sorting building waste. How do we do that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u246	Thank you, sir. And please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I would like to say that there are several reasons for this novel act on maintaining purity in municipalities and other laws. Firstly, it is the expectation of local governments due to rising costs, including rising costs of waste for local residents who protest, who say it is too expensive. Here, of course, an important factor is the growing so-called. Marshal's fee, about which he spoke, among others. Mr Slugocki, who is being introduced by the regulation, but also a package of directives and ongoing work on them as regards the circular economy. COVID also causes part of the problems and, of course, work on the law on extended producer responsibility. Five things I'd like to bring up in connection with this bill. Firstly, according to the new rules that this law will implement, producers will be required to obtain a recycling level of 50% from another waste pool. We put some fractions together, and then there's paper, metals, plastics, glass, and that's 50 percent by weight. we are to select and at the same time manage to achieve the goal in this way. Currently Art. 3b obliges to obtain the entire waste stream. I understand that here is a kind of anticipation of a package in a circular economy, a package of directives, according to which among others. construction waste is not classified as municipal waste. But they exist, they will remain, and they will have to be managed in some way. Secondly, it's a matter of respect for costs. If we hadn't introduced this cost regulation, or actually the penalties that local governments would have to pay... They are estimated at almost 900 million PLN. This is a serious sum that would be burdened by local governments. Another problem that has been identified is that the level of recycling has been clarified in the coming years. The third is the high prices for waste collection, which are mainly caused by the problem of management, the lack of storage capacity of the oil fraction. Thirdly, there is a shortage of processing facilities. The government therefore proposes to abolish this 30% limit thermal processing. It is from the point of view of ad hoc solutions that is of course beneficial. But if we achieve recycling levels in the future, it may turn out that from Polish waste there will not be enough stream, that for existing installations - I am talking about incinerators and I am also talking about cement plants that take over the factions of RDF - these waste may not be enough. The thermal transformation would, of course, require an integrated processing permit or permit for thermal conversion. Here, these small installations, to be honest, are not very convincing to me, but maybe the local authorities are ready to make just such a far-reaching investment and carry out all the administrative efforts that need to be done here. Fourthly, the extension of the reporting period from the Voivodship's national waste management plan for the years 2017 and 2019, because here, of course, the main obstacle is the administrative problems associated with COVID-19. The fifth problem is to move the confirmation module from 1 January 2021 to 1 January 2022 by 1 year, i.e. the amendment of Article. 3 Waste Act, and the reason here is also anticipation, i.e. the future law on extended producer responsibility. It is also a good thing that we are not trying to implement something that is about to be changed, but we do not really have this project in the High House. Therefore, these are future events, as some say, uncertain. But in spite of everything, in conclusion, it concerns citizens, because in fact the costs are borne by citizens. The owners are local governments. As a parliamentary club, we will support this amendment to the Cleanliness Act despite some of the issues that I have raised here which are questionable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u248	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Stop the waste exported to Poland from Germany, from other countries. This is the position of the Confederation, this is what we expressed last year during the election campaign. It is unchangeable. I'm glad the Left is hitting the same tons today. The deserted benches of the Left are not interested in discussing garbage, about environmental issues. Because that's where we watch everything on TV. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that this request of the Left also raises today. It has been preached by the Confederation for a year now. However, it must be noted that you must realise that the ban on importing garbage into Poland is to go to war with Brussels because it is a violation of the EU's principle of free movement of goods. It is also treated as a commodity within the commercial meaning. So you must realise that if you want to be ecological, you must persuade your comrades in Brussels, which, of course, we encourage. Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of foreign monopolies in this case is also bowed down, the German market take-over in terms of waste disposal, in terms of both municipal waste and post-mortem disposal. As the development of the Road Transport Inspection data, the chief environmental inspector, has shown, we need to strengthen the control of waste transport from Germany to Poland. It is also necessary to seal penalties and collections for these crimes, because we are dealing with two phenomena: first, German companies dominate and monopolize, even those that are associated with one company, the collection of garbage, the disposal, and in this area both municipal and post-mortem garbage, and on the other hand we still have to bring these rubbish into Poland. Illegal waste from Germany accounted for more than 87% mass of all illegal waste transported to Poland, detained by the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor. The Road Transport Inspection for the period 2016 to 31 July 2020 audited 23 vehicles carrying out illegal shipments of waste from Germany and 26 infringements were found against 51 vehicles carrying out illegal shipments of waste from European Union countries, including Germany, resulting in a total of 59 infringements. This means that more than 45% of illegal shipments of waste controlled by the Road Transport Inspection came from our western German neighbours. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday I attended a meeting with Deputy Minister of Ornament in the Ministry of Environment on a waste scandal in the municipality of Mirsk in a closed basalt mine in Rębszów. As far as the meeting is concerned, I think that the associations that participated in it consider them good but highly unsatisfactory. We are still dealing with the Polish state, which is strong against the weak and weak against the strong ones, against the strong German companies which organize such transports to Poland. 40 trucks on the rural side roads pass every day to a closed mine. Of course, we are able to appreciate the changes that have taken place since 2018 and the efforts that are being made, but we are far from being optimistic. We call for the Polish state to finally show firmness and determination here. Let's see what the effects of this visit will be. And in short: you need to check the share in the disposal of foreign entities, which is a percentage, strengthen and increase the control of shipments of waste from Germany, increase penalties for illegal transport and enforcement, think about recolonization and disposal, as this also affects food security in connection with waste disposal. It is time to reflect on the waste committee, to address the subject of burning illegal landfills, the subject of everything related to this waste management in Poland and illegal transport to Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u250	Please, for 36 seconds, Mr. Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u251	Ladies and gentlemen! You don't see any connection between the different areas you're tampering with. You are most often under the dictation of Brussels or other decision-making centers on the other side of the globe. Just as you are told to sing embassies forming de facto these supervisory councils of the Republic of Poland, so you sing. You don't see the connection between the waste disposal case and, for example, the waste disposal case. energy monopoly of the Republic of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] As long as Poles aren't allowed to make money in fields like energy... Thank you very much, sir. ...on a private scale, you can't solve garbage problems. I'll come back here with a question. I'll have a chance. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for your discipline. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Andrzej Szewiński, the Civic Coalition. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have no doubt that changes in the project will affect large savings for local governments. On the other hand, from the perspective of the enormous financial losses of local governments, the obligations imposed on local governments, for which financial resources are not followed, the following questions arise at a time of pandemic. Why is it only now that the government has decided to abandon a more restrictive law than the one resulting from the implementation of EU directives? And the second question is: Why didn't the minister responsible decide to lower the so-called. As local government officials say, the Marshal's fee, which currently amounts to 270 PLN for 1 t, and in 2017 amounted to 24.15 PLN? These are really hard times, and in my opinion, if we want to help citizens, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We should help local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u254	Thank you, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For a long time, of course, local governments have been talking about the need for changes in waste management and this amendment of the Cleanliness Act is in line with the expectations of these local authorities, but unfortunately not all expectations. I consulted this project with some of the local authorities in Małopolska and they pointed to such needs: firstly, the need to significantly increase the ceiling of the rate of the waste charge that the municipality can set up, secondly, the need to include returnable glass bottles in the deposit system to calculate the level of recycling, which will facilitate the achievement of the assumed levels, thirdly, the same regulation regarding the creation of a deposit system for plastic bottles and fourthly, enabling technologically developed local authorities, such as. Like the city of Kraków, introducing a three-franchise garbage sorting system. I have also made these demands in committee and I would like to ask why they have not been included in this amendment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, I would like to address the Prime Minister with an appeal, which is formulated by local governments throughout Poland - asking for a freeze or at least a reduction in the Marshal's fee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u256	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left. There isn't. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! At first, I wanted to ask why there is no environmental minister in the Parliament when we discuss such important matters. I believe that this indicates how this problem is being treated. Because it's not just what this bill is about today. This law does not solve all the problems that are so-called. waste management. I wanted to draw your attention to this. If local authorities are responsible for the management of waste in their territory, then why does the chief environmental inspector not ask local authorities when deciding to import waste from another country? A concrete example: consent of the General Environmental Inspector to 40 000. t in the Jizera Foothills without notice and inquiry of the local government. This is not enough, in Germany these waste must not be stored, and in Poland it is not allowed to be stored. I'm asking you why. When will this be settled comprehensively? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u258	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Not long ago we could hear that it was the government and the president who gave the public gratification, while the government's fault is the high costs of waste. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that today you admit that a large proportion of these costs are subject to legal provisions. This is a step in the right direction - you should take any such solution with kindness, although the question of the amount of the Marshal's fees It still raises doubts. However, this issue cannot be considered in isolation from all environmental issues, because the reduction of costs, which is desirable, cannot, on the other hand, have a negative impact on environmental issues for households. This should also be seen in the context of incentives for citizens to use waste water, for example. There are insufficient incentives here. The idea is that for the energy we produce at home, we can also (the bell) earn revenue. I would like to ask you, in the fullest possible context, to resolve these matters. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u260	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u261	Yeah, you remember that conversation between the Belgian president Duda and the voter in Garvolina, I believe. The president pointed out a boy to be beaten by local governments. It is local governments who raise fees, and good central power, Warsaw is spreading money from a helicopter, it is 500, 1500 - and how it devalues there - plus. Can any of you explain to President Duda how this works? It's central tampering with translation, shifting, transferring responsibility to local governments? That would be very useful. The question, no longer rhetorical, is: Is the state dealing with this issue, this industry in such a beautiful country as Poland, plot No.1 on the globe by the Lord God, the Creator of Poles, you are dealing with the issue of disposal at all [[♪ The bell ♪]] waste through energy invention? Are you even in communication with those resorts that should in theory be interested in what's out there in the grass market? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u262	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, local authorities have signalled problems with waste charges and waste - it is not just a matter of the Marshal's fee - it is a question of increasing costs in general in terms of waste management. Therefore, my first question is: Are you planning on freezing salaries for the public administration, for teachers, as well as freezing the Marshal's fee for 2021? She is later transferred to residents of individual municipalities. At the end of the day, the residents will pay for it. That's the first question. The second question concerns the number of incineration plants in Poland. I would like to know how many incinerators have been built in the last five years and how much is under construction. The third question concerns the emerging issue of illegal landfills. I know that local governments have a very serious problem with this. Does the 2021 budget provide for amounts to help local authorities to dispose of illegal landfills? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u264	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since time did not allow the issue of thermal transformation of waste to be developed, and at the same time we are removing the upper 30% limit for the use of waste for this form of use, I would like to recall the report of the Roman Club on this issue, which says that if the recycling levels established in the circular economy are carried out, there is actually no waste in Europe that we should burn. I'm talking about residual waste, not waste that hasn't been selected before. So I have a question for you. The report was presented, among others, during ENVICON 3 years ago. It has been found that the introduction of the entire circular economy package is in fact forcing us - when reaching levels - to limit this form of development. This form of development was simply considered to be something of a pass in Europe. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Aren't we really going to have a collision in implementing the package in the closed economy by making this move?" Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! How will these changes that we are looking at translate into the pricing of municipal waste collection? Is there any chance of stopping the increase in fees or perhaps even reducing them? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u268	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Sługocki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u269	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the future of waste collection in Poland. We know, ladies and gentlemen, that a small part of the waste is being collected separately. The last few years have made things a little better. A smaller part of the waste is subjected to thermal treatment. Efforts to change this situation have been undertaken since 1 May 2004. The last two multi-annual perspectives are the years 2007 to 2013, 2014 to 2020. Nearly €28 billion was spent each time for the implementation of the Operational Programme. I wanted to ask you about the future, about the new perspective, about the new multiannual financial framework. My question is: Will environmental and waste issues continue to be recognised by the Government of Law and Justice? Will there be funds (the bell) for this type of investment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u270	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you two questions. First thing: Is the government considering separating a separate fraction of ash from combustion? This is extremely important waste from a cost-creating point of view when it comes to waste management. It is likely that the separation of this fraction could result in an incentive to use greener forms more widely, e.g. heating houses. As I said, this is quite an important cost-generating factor in waste management. Second question: Does the government plan to introduce solutions that could significantly support municipalities in terms of the disposal of hazardous waste and their landfills? There are places where these waste is stored. The municipalities have a problem with their liquidation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They need backup. Is the government thinking about it? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have two short questions. First question. What percentage of municipal waste - apart from biological waste - are we currently burning in incineration plants? I'm asking you to answer in writing because I don't know if the Minister remembers right now. The point is to know this relationship, or to abolish the 30% limit It's actually a problem. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: 10% we burn, 10.4%]] 10% Oh, yeah? That limit could have been and couldn't have been, so... I just wanted to know what the relationship was. Second question. It's about the last module in BDO. When the government predicts... There's a one-year shift. Will we be able to make this module and enter electronic records in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u274	Thank you very much, sir. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environmental Affairs of Minister Jack Ornament to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u275	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll start by thanking you for this discussion. I thank the Member for presenting the project and for supporting it. And thank you to the other clubs. I would like to draw attention to a certain issue with regard to the waste economy, which is related to the misunderstanding of the issues raised by some Members. I'm looking at the Left and the Civic Platform. I would like to point out that import issues and bans are already regulated in Polish legislation. It's been very restrictive for a few years now... We are in the forefront of European countries which enforce the law in a really harsh way. Imports of waste are not just, as you probably understand, those who do not deal with this issue, imports of those bags that are thrown away by citizens. Such imports to Poland are simply prohibited. That's a crime. The Penal Code martializes it in a very harsh way. Moreover, the detection of these cases is very high, but it is not due to the lack of regulation in terms of enforcement, in terms of criminalisation of the act, but to the lack of understanding of the issue that you address. Because the official import we're talking about is, for example, elements for the recovery of lead or other elements for production. By comparison: Poland imported around 400 thousand in 2019 t, Germany - 6 million. Are you screaming that Germany is Europe's landfill? No, because you don't understand what's really going on. By comparison, in 2020 we increased the volume of export licences by more than 300%. Poland not only imports, but also exports. It's not as much a problem as you think you are moving here. The problem is possibly irregularities, such as the legal and well-functioning company. goes to Poland waste, which is illegal, i.e. Someone's tampering with the documentation. Hence the strong reaction of the Polish state. In the Environmental Protection Inspection, a special cell was created that coordinated services such as the National Tax Administration, the Police and the Public Prosecutor's Office. And we have very clear signals here, because cooperation between the Environmental Protection Inspection and the Public Prosecutor's Office is successful. Simple thing: a few months ago we informed about the case of Krakow's entrepreneur. There, the District Attorney has accused 36 people of participating in an organised criminal group, 41 people have been detained, the cost of disposing of this waste is over 180 million. Only these are long-term negligence and cases that concern long-term negligence due to e.g. insufficient regulation, lack of regulation. Today, the facts are completely different. In order to carry out such activities legally, it is necessary, first, to comply with the relevant standards. It is not only the protection of claims, but the fire protection, as well as the other issues of the relevant installation standards. So I would like us in this House, especially with the participation of the Members who use these arguments, to stop discussing that Poland is a dump in Europe. That is absolutely not true. This is because the state simply does not have a basic, elementary knowledge of what the functioning of the European Union looks like. Here, one of the Members just mentioned... If Mr Dyduch wishes, for example. The recycler could not import waste from which the availability of the Polish market has a problem, I understand that the solution will be to get out of the European Union. It would be good for you to simply access Eurostat's websites and see what cross-border movements look like, for example. in this respect the German economy and as Poland also exports. I can show you the pictures, $3,000 last week. t the waste of the calorie fraction came to Sweden. And those who are discussing this release today... There was a question for which I thank you very much for using alternative fuels in widely understood energy. I will say that such a team has been specifically established and coordinates work on the use of this natural fuel, which is necessarily produced in households, for cogeneration, for electricity and heat production. For example: France - 126 such facilities, Germany - 96, Poland - answer the question - eight. We have eight installations. M.st. Warsaw has recently stated that it will increase - this is the fourth change - the cost for citizens, the huge, resulting from the lack of subsidies, due to the lack of real, well-run policies. Why is this happening in the M.E. Warsaw? Imagine, and this is in touch with the government of the Civic Platform, that in 2010 Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz wrote to the Minister of the Environment and then Minister Bieńkowska wrote that she was resigning from the EU grant for the construction of thermal installations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At that time it was 0.5 billion, today it's 2 billion. And today they want to finance it from the pockets of the inhabitants of Warsaw. I will answer - if I may, just a second, your marshal - questions about further changes. Further changes also concern issues and rates in the case of uninhabited immovable property, an increase in the upper limit. It is a question of making the collection more flexible where the technical and organisational capacity of the municipalities is, and a number of changes that concern the introduction of saving opportunities due to today's cost factors, which unfortunately translate into citizens. Many local governments have slept through the investment moment, but that doesn't mean they should be punished, it just needs to be helped. Hence these programs in the national environmental fund. It is a scheme of strong support for extended producer responsibility, in addition to the bail system, which will be presented to the High House for approval, and other changes which aim above all to relieve the burden on citizens, because today these rates are far too high. That's why we're doing this. As regards the Marshal's fee - it was a condition for obtaining EU grants for investments. We don't recommend raising this rate. We believe that it is still relatively high, so there is no need to make changes in this area. That's it. Thank you very much and, of course, I ask you to support the project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u276	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur for the committee, Ms Anna Paluch. Would you like to speak? Yes, of course. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I would like to thank the representatives of the clubs for their declaration of support for this project. But it is also difficult not to relate to certain statements that have been made here. Of course we are doing everything we can to rationalise and reduce fees in waste management, because ultimately our citizens are paying these fees. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Marshal's fee is only part of the costs incurred in waste management. Firstly, it is necessary to rationalise expenditure, improve collection, segregation and preparation for re-use of biodegradable waste, re-useable waste. And the Law and Justice Government has consistently introduced these changes in the waste management system since 2019. The rules have been amended several times. I am in a good position to be the rapporteur of these laws, and I remember how many of these The amendment was. Ladies and gentlemen, there is another movement in this area, because depositing a calorie fraction somewhere is just a waste. For several years, local governments have been asking for it and talking about it. Because local systems, some energy clusters that are formed -- that is, the combination of renewables with conventional sources, that is, with the waste incineration plant -- that is, rationalization of waste management on the one hand, and that is the protection of residents, because there are very high requirements for exhaust from such incineration plants, which are set in an integrated permit, that is to protect air and protect local communities from poisoning, and that is the proper use of this fraction. That's another line. It was mentioned here that it was supposedly a rude import to Poland. So I'm going to give you hard data, members of the Civic Coalition, who have somehow dematerialized themselves, but maybe they'll listen. In 2009 it was 1116,9 thousand. a. In 2010 it was 1016 thousand. a. In 2011 it was 1602 thousand. a. For comparison in 2016 it was 256 thousand, in 2017 - 378 thousand, in 2018 - 434 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, look for mistakes at home and at your own government, and do not mislead citizens who are probably listening to our deliberations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u278	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a time-out. 5:15 p.m. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 minutes 11 hours 17 min 18]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of items 6 and 7 of the agenda: Before we proceed, Mr Boris Budka with a formal proposal. One minute, sir. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u279	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I asked you this morning not to do a circus with the Sejm. I am already overlooking what you did before the Sejm, which calls for vengeance to heaven, but at the moment you will try instead of the debate and government information on the negotiations within the European Union to circumvent the rules and to do the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers without the possibility of asking questions. Prime Minister Morawiecki! Be brave, sit here and inform the High House of the state of negotiations, whether Mr Kaczyński has asked you to submit a veto, whether you will pay it, or if you will risk EUR 160 billion of aid to Poland under the budget just because you have no political position within your own group. (PL) Mr President, I would like to make a formal request. I'm asking for a formal motion. Formal request for a break, convening the Senior Convention and putting on the agenda information of the President of the Council of Ministers. And not making a circus parliament, [[Applause]] that you will be under the pretense of information about the Council's work through the back door to introduce the Prime Minister... Thank you, sir. ...who's afraid to answer questions because that's what it comes down to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u280	Mr President, I will not put this proposal to the vote... This morning you said it would be tomorrow. ... Because you know perfectly well, we talked about this this morning, I'm not gonna announce a break, I'm not gonna call the Senior Convention on this. You lied to us. No, sir, I said that the Prime Minister wants to perform... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In the morning. Yes, but the Prime Minister has asked for the floor now. It's not in terms of information that's not right. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, in accordance with the article. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm at any time the Prime Minister of the Polish Government has the right to speak. And the Prime Minister asked for this vote. You're welcome, Prime Minister, to speak. Are you the Prime Minister? But isn't that at the point, isn't it at the point? Where are we at? These are items 6 and 7 of the agenda. According to Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 Rules of Procedure The Prime Minister and every Minister of Government shall have the right to speak at any time. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present today some basic information and reflections on the matter for Poland the most important, a matter which concerns whether our fate is to be in our hands, whether we will decide our own affairs or whether it will be in the hands of others. So Ziobro won after all. This is not a division between the right and left, this is a division between those who want the Polish people to decide for themselves, and those who want some officials in Brussels to decide our fate. [[Applause]] The year 2020 is a very strange, difficult year and a way out of this year, coming out with a punch, coming out with a shield, it will be possible, if we are in solidarity, if we conduct politics solely in the interests of the Polish state, the Polish nation. And that is why, in the circumstances that we all know well, I would like to present to the High House how we look at these issues, how I look at the issues related to the so-called. veto, z so-called. the budget of the Union or the national reconstruction programme, the European reconstruction fund. Well, today we are facing a fundamental choice which at the same time exposes the hypocrisy of the opposition, because you often say that for us the European Union is just a money box Or it's just money. No, High Izbo, the European Union are values. The European Union is a value such as equality between all states and the law, that is the values of compliance with the Treaties, not the creation of regulations that are de facto concerned with the Treaties, as you know well. [[Applause]] This is cohesion, this is a fight for cohesion across the European Union. Look further, two, three steps further, forward. What would threaten the adoption of such a regulation today, which could be interpreted in any way by how many bureaucrats from Brussels? It would simply threaten at later stages the European Union's disintegration, because this instrument, you think, today against us, Hungary, maybe Slovenia, maybe another country from Central Europe, in a few years, in two or three years' time may be directed against someone else. Think about whether this is a look, whether it is the European Union we want, whether it is the European Union that has the chance to survive. No, such a European Union would not survive. The Union, where there is a European oligarchy that punishes those weaker today and puts them in a corner, is not the European Union we have entered, and this is not the European Union that has a future ahead of it. [[Applause]] The European Union must be founded on the foundation of law and legal certainty. This is also the principle we are fighting for, because without this principle of legal certainty, the European Union is the mechanism for arbitrary decisions taken by Eurocrats, and in fact by the European oligarchy, sometimes by a few stronger countries, just to dominate the weaker ones. And that's not what we're authorized to do. [[Applause]] This hypocrisy of yours actually hides very often shallow arguments, arguments which on your side show that you want to do anything to harm de facto Poland. Not just us, the ruler. Injure Poland. We're not gonna let that happen. [[Applause]] I will start by making three arguments, which are now often in the public debate and concern this regulation. Firstly, it is said that if this regulation is not adopted, if the budget is not adopted, it will threaten that the budget will not be adopted at all. Now you're starting to scare money, even though before, for five years, you've been fighting for the rule of law. I'm gonna talk to you about that right now. Well, ladies and gentlemen, art. 312 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union clearly states that it is necessary to agree on a commission for the following year. On the basis of this commission, it is possible to carry out the basic activities and tasks of the European Union, including payments to farmers, as well as tasks related to the Cohesion Fund. So this argument has no basis in fact. The second argument that you and the cooperating publicists use is that the veto is a nuclear weapon, as you say, it's a bomb that's actually gonna blow everything up. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not agree with such reasoning, I fundamentally disagree. It's exactly the opposite. It is thanks to the fact that there is a veto, in many different fields, used by many different countries that the European Union is continuing, because this keeps it a group, an organisation of countries that are trying to make a compromise with respect. If this veto hadn't been there - I would have called it a fuse - if this fuse hadn't been there, it would have just happened that sooner or later, sooner rather than later, the European Union would have just threatened to break up. [[Applause]] And finally, I'm going to stress once again that by ensuring that secondary law is not over primary law... This discussion is even taking place in the legal services of the Council, in the legal services of the Commission, although there is a very twisted interpretation of the law. But we make sure that there is order in European Union law, that there is a proper hierarchy in the acquis communautaire and that legal certainty is preserved. Only because we're going to make the right approach to this negotiation phase... And if our partners do not understand that we do not agree to unequal treatment of countries, to a stick in our hand, which will always be used against us only because someone does not like our power, then we will actually use this veto at the end, although we already said at the COREPER meeting that we do not agree on such a regulation. As I understand it, a thought process has been launched there. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to emphasise something more in the context of this topic, because we are very often confronted with situations such as these European measures are so pocket money for us or maybe some charity, maybe some money without which we cannot live absolutely, and we should kneel on our knees in order to get this money and keep it. Ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow citizens of Europe, this is not the case. The European Union is an economic conglomerate of countries that are linked to a very large number of bilateral economic relationships, and the fact that at this stage Poland and the countries of Central Europe receive more resources than they contribute to the European Union does not reflect the whole reality of who benefits from membership of the European Union. It is enough to see that functioning within a unified regulatory area brings greater benefits to those who are stronger technologically. Yes, and sometimes he can bring them to us and sometimes he can't. But then these main freedoms, especially the freedom of movement of people... After all, the flower of our nation has left, 2 million Poles have left for the West. It is a great loss to us, and a great advantage to them. Freedom of movement of capital, freedom of movement of products - this is also a great benefit for our partners. But we demand, first of all, that the European Union should not be a Union of double standards, that it should be a Union of equals and not a Union of equals and equals. [[Applause]] Because how do you interpret the fact that there's one big country, where the Minister of Justice actually decides who's to be the judge? In this country, even politicians can be judges. Poland. Nothing's going on. Nobody in the European Commission says it violates the rule of law. The rule of law and the violation of the rule of law have become a propaganda stick in the European Union. We reject this position. We reject that approach. [[Applause]] We are well acquainted with the use of these propaganda sticks from the communist era: revisionism, gimp, antisocialist element. The elders still remember it perfectly. That's what you guys are doing. We're rejecting these propaganda batons because... Because we have ours. ...the rule of law is today used in the European Union as a kind of scarecrow and is applied in the opposite way to the value and content of this definition. It is simply by the rule of law that the right of states to reform in accordance with the Treaties and with their own constitution of justice should be understood. Exactly. The appropriate hierarchy and structure of rights should be understood, as I mentioned. And that is why we speak loudly for the European Union, but we speak loudly for the various mechanisms that punish us as children, which treat Poland and other Member States of the European Union in an unequal way. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also worth recalling a few examples here. When we are dealing with a description of the functioning of democracy or demonstration as part of, of course, civil rights, someone is searching for holes in the whole. Meanwhile, at one of our big partners during the protest of the yellow vests, several people were killed and no one here said anything. The Southern pipeline can't be built, but the North Gas pipeline can be built. Right? I don't know. Did you find that out? Or Italy - 10 judgments of the TSUE not executed. I think it's July. Greece - 11 judgments of the TSUE not executed. So? Nothing. Nothing's going on. What's with the guns? However, other Member States are subject to rules which can only be defined as principles of unequal treatment between Member States, and we will certainly not be able to do so. [[Applause]] Besides, you say that the budget veto is so dangerous, and this is in your time of government, when the head of DG, the budget committee, was Janusz Lewandowski, in 2010, probably Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands - if I remember correctly - threatened the budget veto. The United Kingdom has also threatened the veto of the budget on several occasions. And did something happen to anyone about that? No. Yes. Brexit. Just the budget, as well as the budget implementation rules, including discounts for the richest ones, because they take great care of their interests, matched to their deniers. And that is why we now want to ensure the ability of the Polish state to implement our reforms, our vision of action, by looking ahead for 5 and 10 years. Nobody's gonna force us to realize other people's visions. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! You are in favour of a mechanism that is properly arbitrary, which can also be time-shifting, and thus even more dangerous. You're in like butter. Very interesting. Well, then maybe we'll adopt a principle, hypothetically, that, for example. if some local governments do not do their job properly, it is us as a government - it is interesting what you would say - then we will be able to receive funds according to our discretionary principles, e.g. If somebody breaks a pipe... [[Applause]] That's what you're doing. ...or if someone doesn't fulfill their basic education duties. We will then take away some of the subsidies, educational subsidies or some of the taxes that flow through a wide stream to local governments by sealing the tax system by law and justice. How would you feel about a hypothetical solution like that? Dear fellow countrymen, this is what it looks like. It is as if today the government, due to some mistakes, sometimes imperfections, irregularities, but sometimes pathology, did not recognize a certain continuity of action and acted against local governments. No. On this higher level on exactly such reasoning we absolutely disagree. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The whole EU mechanism is based on the principles of compromise, respect for one another. And we are very often trying to avoid this principle, but today, indeed, in these days, in these weeks, there has been some accumulation of all these ambiguities, inconsistencies. I would therefore like to say very clearly: we are very much in favour of an honest spending of every euro from this budget. Dear European citizens, dear fellow countrymen, we are the formation that has really fought corruption to a large extent. Corruption, dishonesty or all sorts of pathologies and irregularities... Sasin. ...we want to keep fighting. Therefore, any rules that relate to the implementation of the budget from this side... You are the most corrupt government in Poland. ...are as acceptable to us as possible, but only such rules. And certainly not such a provision of a regulation, which will de facto mean freedom and arbitrariness in the application of restrictions to Poland. That's the kind of approach we reject in advance. [[Applause]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, a turning moment in the history of the European Union. Don't underestimate it. Mr Budka, I think, said something that vetoing is a betrayal of the Polish cause of the state. Well, ladies and gentlemen, dear fellow countrymen... And he's right. ...is exactly the opposite. It's exactly the opposite. [[Applause]] Allowing vague, vague, vague, arbitrary provisions of the regulation, which - I have a full conviction about this - will only be able to be applied against Poland on a political basis, and thus politically motivated, could lead to the disintegration of the European Union. Thus, the Polish state's reason, ba, the European state's reason is to ensure that European principles and values are respected. I will also make that clear in the European Council tomorrow. [[Applause]] But maybe, ladies and gentlemen, it is worth dealing with another myth, with this myth that says that Poland is such an ugly virgin without dowry, that we have to knock on the door there and actually only benefit from this budget to us, and on the other hand there is only benefit, truth, and good will. One of the European leaders not long ago said that the European Union could not be treated a la carte or like a supermarket, the truth from which we choose something. And you know what, ladies and gentlemen, I agree. The European Union cannot look like this, that there are French supermarkets, Dutch insurance companies and other German media, and on our side there are posted workers... Irish banks. ...against which there is now a separate directive, and in our situation there are transporters, are drivers who, through the mobility package, are denied the fundamental principle of the treaty, namely freedom to provide services. This isn't right. [[Applause]] This Europe a la carte we don't want. It reduces competitiveness, reduces Europe's chances of competition within the global framework. We therefore want the European Union to be a fair mechanism. Because we'd be happy to switch with those Germans, the French, the Dutch. Let their drivers come to us on trucks, and we'll have companies there. I just don't know if they'd want to switch like that. [[Applause]] That's why we have to keep an eye on our interests very carefully. It is up to the canon of fundamental values that states retain the right to decide their own fate. Because it's a game of sovereignty. [[Applause]] This is a game about self-determination, autonomy, independence. And we certainly won't give that value back. Irish bankster. Mrs. Marshal! Honourable ladies and gentlemen, Europe is great then... What's with the guns? ...when it is a Europe of homelands, when Europe can work together, when it can take care of transatlantic values, when it can really build economic cohesion. Then Europe is great, Europe of homelands, Europe of nations, Europe of the Christian founding fathers. [[Applause]] Bravo! On the fifth anniversary of Poland's accession to the European Union, President Lech Kaczyński said in April 2009 that the European Union is such a rose, but a rose with many thorns. It is a successful historical experiment and therefore its door should be open to everyone, but for everyone it also means respect for diversity. That's what you say, that's what the Union says about diversity. You're way out of line. It is precisely the diversity of justice models, fiscal models, tax systems and other aspects of socio-economic and political life that must be at the heart of the European Union's sustainability. And there will be no other European Union if this lasting basis falls apart. Ladies and gentlemen! We could have gone the easier way. We could agree, right, as the Civic Platform did, to agree to everything, not to look at the consequences, but at this point we are going upstream, against the current of the mainstream, the mainstream in Brussels, which has a specific vision of the European Union, one that I feel has no chance of surviving. That is why we have decided to fight for Poland, but also to fight for the future of the European Union, to fight for a good budget, to fight for a reconstruction programme, but also to fight for principles, for values. And this is our proposal to the European Union, but also to the entire Polish society. It is about the budget, which was well negotiated in July and thanks to which, after negotiations, we have a strong negotiating position today. Let's imagine, because I know that there are also voices like this reality would look today if we were even before negotiating the final shape of the budget. Well, according to our assumptions at that time, we did the best possible for Poland. We have guaranteed our rights and a very good budget. That's why you want to veto him today. But precisely because today there are fundamental decisions on the architecture of the whole European Union for the next 10 years, for the next long, long years, we will definitely take care of the Polish state right. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to represent this political force, this political camp, Law and Justice, which is always in line with the Polish state's right. [[Applause]] He acts courageously, but prudently, prudently and effectively. And so it will be this time. Thank you. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Bravo! Some Members chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew! Some Members chant: Shame! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! Some Members chant: Poland! Poland!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u282	Thank you, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a five-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 46 hrs. 17 min 51]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. But it's the premiere, Mr. Marshal. But it's real. Listen to me. I'm reopening the proceedings in an unorthodox way. To correct... He lied and left. ... MEPs Budka, Gawkowski, Kosiniak and Braun came forward. I invite Mr Budka - a corrigendum. Five minutes. Five minutes. Give it up for the marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, let's agree that you are not going to hold a hearing for me, but I will try to manage until someone else removes me. [[Applause]] Mr President, Mr Budka, you have two minutes, but I know your intelligence and I know you can handle it. Mr. Marshal, call Prime Minister Moravian. Five of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! This is the debate in Parliament, the empty bench of Prime Minister Morawiecki, the Deputy Prime Minister, because they fear you. They're afraid of the sovereign, they're separated by dozens of police cars and hundreds of cops. [[Applause]] We have dealt with a festival of lies, hypocrisy and slanders that have already been thrown not only against the opposition, but above all to our partners in the European Union. The European Union is a great project, not only a political project, not only an economic one, but above all a security guarantee for years. And today, these crazy people who, for their own political interests, are trying to blow up the European Union from the inside, are trying to pretend they're doing something good. Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister Morawiecki has lied so many times in his speech today, [[Applause]] I don't think there's enough time to straighten out all these lies. But what I want to say from this place is that today everyone who threatens veto against a good budget for Poland is betraying the Polish national interest. [[Applause]] And that's what you have to say. Today, the traitor of the national interest is the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, who is able to veto the budget for the internal position, which on 22 July said that this is the best budget for Poland. Disgraceful! Disgraceful! Disgraceful! Bastard. This is the height of hypocrisy and this is treason of the state. Is that a good budget or a bad budget? Ladies and gentlemen! But we are dealing with a much more serious issue. Today we hear that the rule of law is a principle that threatens the European Union. Nothing more vicious. Do you know why these people got out of here? Because they're scared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] any kind of control. They fear that the bodies of the European Union will catch such Sasins, Szumowskis and others who embezzle the money of Polish taxpayers and they are most afraid of just [[Applause]] that check. And today the game is not about whether Morawiecki, Ziobro or Kaczyński will be Prime Minister. Today's game is whether this power will be unpunished and able to risk your money, dear citizens, farmers, self-government, entrepreneurs, doctors, for your own political interest. This bunch of hypocrites want to risk your money because they know their time is running out, and these are the last moments to get rich as much as possible. And one last thing. Too bad Mr Morawiecki isn't here... There it is, there it is. Bankster. Oh, there he is, bravo. You're talking about the movement of capital, people, you're talking about these different capitals. Where were you, where you fought the European Union, how you represented Irish capital? [[Applause]] This is hypocrisy. Yes, sir. You didn't mind working for foreign capital when they paid you well. But today you suddenly want to save Poland? Do you know how best you could save Poland? I'll tell you. If you'd resigned today. [[Applause]] That would be a rescue for Poland. This would be a rescue, above all, for all those who believe that thanks to the European Union, through the principle of solidarity, we will be able to overcome the crisis together. And today, together in the European Union, it is decided to fight the consequences of the crisis together, jointly and severally, so that Poland will be a great beneficiary of the European budget and reconstruction fund, and you only want to sacrifice all of this because you can be Prime Minister for a few more months. Prime Minister! Be brave, for once prove that national business is more important than your political business. Take the budget and then resign. And then history will remember you on the good side, but not as this coward before Ziobra, before Kaczyński, from those who lead Poland astray. Thank you. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u284	Thank you very much. I remind you of the time limit, but to be honest, I did not interrupt Mr Boris Budce because I have deep respect for the Prime Minister and I know that the Prime Minister would like to hear all the parliamentary clubs because it is a normal matter. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] President Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] As regards the correction, Mr Braun made such a request on behalf of your club, one person from each club. Let's be nice to each other today. There you go, Mr Gawkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Europe is our common homeland. Prime Minister Morawiecki complained that the flower of the Polish nation had left it. Well, Prime Minister, it's not sadness. But why did you stay? Ha, ha, ha! This is the reality if we want to make fun of Poles who went abroad: they left and came back. In Poland they have their home and are ashamed of what your government and you are doing, saying that you will veto the budget of the European Union. You are breaking up the European Union in the name of the party's cynical interests, not the States. And that's the truth about what you're doing in Europe and your back. Community and conversation - it has been characteristic of the European Union for years. Today you're pushing for conflict, and you think you're gonna do business by banging. This is not the country its founders wanted for all of us, not this Europe they wanted. They wanted us to live in it. You, Prime Minister, believe that Europe is the home from which you can draw as much money as possible. And we, Prime Minister, believe that this is a common home that builds our sovereignty, independence, gives us support, faith in democracy, does not seek conflict, and is the basis for agreement and understanding. [[Applause]] The European Union in 2004, when we joined it, was the same Union as now. She's evolving, but she's still the same Union of common values and expectations. When the Left introduced Poland into the European Union, in this Chamber, his colleagues from Law and Justice hurried that this was the wrong way. I remind you, you may not remember, but it's worth remembering what Jarosław Kaczyński said. The words from this speaker were: the European Union is such a balloon, no one knows what will happen to it. Look at the protocols, it's worth seeing what time it was. [[Applause]] That's what Giertych says. You can make enemies, honourable gentlemen of the Law and Justice, Prime Minister. You seek misunderstandings, and you appoint your partners as the largest arsonists of the European Union. It is your friend Viktor Orbán who says that the European Union is the Soviet Union. Do you know those words from anywhere? If not, turn on the TVP Info, you'll see there. Applause If we want to talk about the European Union as a union of countries that gives us a sense of value and responsibility, we must also be responsible for the resources of the European Union and not tell Poles that they will not lose anything. The EU budget for 2021-2027 is an opportunity to come out of the pandemic with a defensive hand to rebuild the economy, invest in infrastructure and, above all, have financial resources for good health care. 103 billion PLN - that's all we can lose. And you know that, but you don't want to tell us honestly and honestly. Sovereignty and independence are built when we are all responsible for what you will say at the European Council. Prime Minister! As with this speaker, your partners in 2003 encouraged us to make decisions together as the Sejm, so today I am submitting to you and to your marshal - because I believe that we will be able to do this together - a resolution of the Polish Sejm on the commitment of the President of the Council of Ministers to adopt the long-term budget of the European Union. The end of this hucpa without the consent of Parliament by you and your government of possible conflicts, with possible responsible steps that will cost us billions of zlotys. This is a resolution to ensure that we are stable, smart, but also long-term thinking about how to get out of the crisis. You, Prime Minister, should know one thing as a dolphin, a shark, or maybe a worm in the camp of Law and Justice: responsibility for Poland is a responsibility that we will be able to look at ourselves in the mirror after what will happen at the European Council. The billions of gold do not flow to Poland because we are proud, just because we are a community that wanted a great Europe. Mr. Prime Minister, without fighting for the PiS, it does not destroy Europe. I am submitting this resolution with the hope that you will not disregard it. Thank you very much. Applause
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u286	Thank you very much. In the correction procedure, please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u287	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister started his speech by saying that this was one of the most important decisions for Poland, and he did not want to debate after this decision, after his speech. It's a good thing there's a marshal named Czarzasty. Respect for the marshal (Applause) for finding a way for the High House to debate this issue. Thank you so much for that. I speak for the Polish People's Party. I want to present our position on a very important matter. In July this year, on 21 July, the Prime Minister announced his success, he was successful, so he talked about negotiating a very good budget for Poland, negotiating funds for the reconstruction of the post-COVID. He has actually agreed - which he may not want to admit directly, but it must be made clear - to the greatest integration since the Treaty of Lisbon, de facto to the federalisation of the European Union, because you have agreed to the Prime Minister's joint debt and the release of bonds. Most of this House - I know that all opposition clubs, I think, also your camp - support you in this decision. We don't. Because you're the wheel. Most of those who are in this House supported this. Today they say yes, this is a good budget, Prime Minister. This is a good budgetary framework, although perhaps not in all areas. There could be more in the common agricultural policy. They say it's a good thing there's a recovery fund. You've united, you can say, almost everyone to that end. You didn't unite Zbigniew Ziebra, Solidar Poland and radicals from your camp. And what happens after a few months? These radicals are winning with you. You're probably not gonna admit it today, you're not gonna come out and say, "That's when I negotiated, I agreed to federalization, to debt, but today I have to give in to radicals from my camp, and I have to say something I'm not convinced of." Because there was also a strengthening of the control function of the funds spent in the provisions of that time, and you agreed to do so. And if you wanted to use a veto today, we could still accept it. ♪ The bell ♪ But I think you really want to use this veto. And that's where entrepreneurs, farmers, lose self-government, lose sick people who wait longer for better equipped hospitals, lose health workers. We're not gonna let that happen. We will not allow and make up every euro you lose because of your wrong and stupid decisions by succumbing to radicals. You have a chance today to receive support because all the opposition clubs' rights are making resolutions that support the budget you negotiated and that urge you to accept this budget and vote for it. You don't want to take advantage of the unification of different environments on this occasion. You call the rule of law so-called. the rule of law. But why didn't you convince the whole Visegrad Group why you didn't convince the Czech Republic and Slovakia that you were right? They have a different opinion about this, and these are our allies. These rules are to be applied to all countries of the European Union. If we respect the rule of law in Poland, we have nothing to fear. And this is the easiest way: to respect the rule of law. Then we won't lose any euro because we just can't afford it. And it's not about giving in to any Brussels officials. The point is that we should be an independent, sovereign state always, but in a common family of the European Union, in which we have a specific meaning. This is possible because there is a sign of equality between the rule of law and sovereignty. There is no sovereignty without the rule of law. [[Applause]] And that's something I don't know why you've changed your mind now, why you're thinking differently now. Please reject these radicals from your camp, please accept this support for the budget we are offering. It will really benefit Poland and you. You have a great chance to prove your courage, determination and willingness to raise large resources for Poland, so that we can get out of the COVID crisis so that we can develop. It is also a lie to repeat that the budget commission will be better for Poland than the budget negotiated by you. The budget commission is the lack of resources for development, the lack of resources for reconstruction, it's just these tough commitments, that's a lot less money. What will be the decision when the Prime Minister vetoes the budget? There will be no funds for roads, there will be no crèches, no kindergartens, no senior homes and no hospitals. Our countrymen need to know that. This is not an enigmatic euro, this is not an imaginary community. This is a real change, this is development for Poland. As the Polish People's Party, we will do everything we can to ensure that if the Prime Minister of the Polish Government does not negotiate, he will not bring this money, then after the change of government every euro wasted by the PiS, every euro wasted by the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki will be brought back to Poland and restored to the benefit of entrepreneurs, farmers, self-governments, health care, to all citizens of the Republic of Poland. This is our sacred, solemn commitment. We will not allow Poland to be removed from the European Union, we will not allow Poland to be destroyed, we will defend it, we will be a country that is looking for friends in Europe, and we will not point to enemies. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u288	Thank you very much. I invite you in the same manner as Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederate circle. The Soviet Union was... Mr Braun, I invited you, not you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u289	God bless you! Put your mask on, man. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr... Speaking of which. Sir, I have a call for you... Don't let him in until he's wearing a mask. But listen to me, really. I have a warm and kind request for you. There's a good atmosphere, there's the Prime Minister, he'll be right back. Would you be so kind as to wear a mask? Morawiecki didn't publish the bill... I'm asking you very much. Speaking of which. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! You're aware... Can you hear me? ...what kind of device they're wearing... Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off ...Mister on your co-worker's face? May I kindly and cordially ask you again? You don't get ridiculed like that, you're gonna be just like us, we're not bad. Do you want me to lend you a mask? Yours? Has Mr. Dziambor left the hospital yet? Sir... Mr. Marshal... Sir, there's a serious atmosphere, there's the Prime Minister of the Polish Government, I've allowed for discussion, all the clubs have taken their positions. Can I really ask you to do that? The Prime Minister would publish, it would be an obligation. Is Mr. Korwin-Mikke, whom I respect... May I have your help, sir? Please help me. Sir, like a fellow Member, older than me, whom I respect. Could you give Mr Braun a mask? Do it. May I speak, Marshal? Just like you're gonna wear a mask. Everyone does. May I? And time passes... But put your mask on. Thank you kindly. Sir, you're off, really, sir. It's not... You're smarter than me and smarter than me. I'm asking you to be reasonable. We know your book, it's wonderful. Could you put your mask on, please? Would you mind embarrassing us? I'm taking care of everything. I'm very sorry for everything. Put on your mask and tell me... Because maybe Mr. Korwin-Mikke will take the stand. ♪ The bell ♪ Mr. Marshal, give it a rest... Are the microphones on yet? No. But he's wasting his time. All of us... Good. Prime Minister, I apologize for the situation. Would you like to take the floor and respond to the clubs? Thank you. I'm asking you very kindly... Mr. Marshal, I'd like the legal basis for your action. You're welcome... Time's up. You're out of time. Ha, ha, ha! You're welcome, Mr. Prime Minister. Prime Minister, welcome. Applause Bravo! Stay away from me for now. We don't have to be ridiculous, really. Again, sir. Would you like to speak? Look, no one's yelling at you for the first time, no one's threatening you with financial punishment. Sir, like a man. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Just get down. Let's hear it. Put your mask on, please. Speak up, Marshal. No, if you don't wear a mask, you won't have a voice. [[Applause]] Bravo! Come down, man. Sir, the legal basis... Come on, man, let it go. ...is the decision of the Marshal of the Sejm, art. 4: Members present in the Chambers referred to in paragraph 1 shall be required to... Listen now. ...to cover the mouth and nose with clothing or parts of it... Everyone has the same rights. ...masks, masks or cavities. That's the legal basis. May I ask you again, please? Could I ask Mr. Corwin-Mikke to help you with this? Someone here must have some sense, sir. Ha, ha, ha! At least one can. Braun's friend is an adult. All right. Prime Minister, I'm sorry, just sir... Take a break. ...a little bit more... I'm gonna take a break. Do you want me to announce a recess, sir? Yes. Ladies and gentlemen... Speak up, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u290	Prime Minister, I apologize again. I'm declaring a minute's rest. I sincerely ask you, Prime Minister, to remain. You're welcome. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 12 h 18 min 13]] But, please, Members and Members, I'll be fine. Again, sir. You represent the Confederation. I ask kindly for your vote, Mr. Marshal. I'm afraid so. I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider items 6 and 7 of the agenda. We're starting what you like best. Mr President, I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the Parliament's deliberations. If you don't respond, I'll tell you what the next reaction will be. Speak up, Marshal. Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. And politely... Speak up, Marshal. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm refer you to order and I find that you are preventing the proceedings from being held. Speak up, Marshal. Mr President, you are still preventing the proceedings from taking place. On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: Five, I'm making a decision to exclude you from the Sejm. [[Applause]] Bravo! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, leave the sitting room. Thank you very much. Prime Minister! Honourable Members and Messengers! I'm so sorry about the situation. Prime Minister, please come to the discussion. Again, I apologize kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these few votes, mostly critical, but I will try to address them in spite of everything. First line. You spoke of her as Chairman of the Civic Platform. He talked about a good budget for the European Union. Are you sure I heard you right? One more month, two or three months ago, you said it was not a good budget for the European Union. Because we corrected it in Parliament. Therefore, I am glad that you have finally seen this, ladies and gentlemen, what we have been saying for several months. [[Applause]] As a result of a difficult process, we have negotiated a good budget for the European Union. Thank you for confirming the President. Why don't you come to the club and sign it and come over? First of all, I would like to thank Mr Marshal and Marshal Witek for having just allowed this kind of discussion because I had no intention of not having such a discussion. You are presenting various topics for discussion, of course we are ready and ready for such a discussion. E.g. Two or three weeks ago, there was a discussion about COVID. Today I will be very happy to discuss this further. Now I would like to present the most fundamental matter. In your opinion, isn't the mechanism of arbitraryness the opening of Pandora's can? Ask yourselves that question. You don't have to answer right now, I understand we're from different political options. Mr President of PSL, Mr President of the Civic Platform, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, is it really arbitrary that you have no concern about how it will be applied to certain countries? Isn't it that today it could be a stick, for example. Poland or Hungary, but... I've spoken to the premieres from the south of Europe, they have growing concerns... It's interesting that they voted differently. ...that their economic policies won't like it, because they have very high budget deficits, very high public debt to GDP. They are seriously concerned that their economic policy will be branded by the European Union and that the budget will be withdrawn. Don't lie to me. We'll see how they react tomorrow. I don't know that. The meeting was held. Once again, I appeal to all Members of the opposition, but at the same time I also pay attention to this aspect to all my fellow countrymen. Is the free application of provisions of a lesser nature than Treaty law, secondary law, the regulation is part of secondary law, acquis communautaire... At the same time, I encourage each of you to look at this regulation. Are you sure you've read them? There are records so vague, so ambiguous, so capable of finding a charge against everyone, a stick, as it is said in the Polish folklore, that really the hair of the oak becomes. You agreed to it in July. Therefore, I think that Pandora's can must not be opened. It is in the interest of the European Union that we take care of this mechanism, which will be the appropriate mechanism, i.e. budgetary control - for the budget and for the rule of law - Article. 7. Besides, we know very well how we are treated under this article. At your own request. President Kosiniak-Kamysz talked about Poland's loss at the budget commission. Well, you can defend the reverse thesis, but I'm not defending it here. Ha, ha, ha! One can defend such a thesis that because in this previous budget, when Poland was poorer, because we grew GDP per capita much faster than the EU average... That is why it was difficult to negotiate this very good budget now, as Mr Budka said. It was hard, but it worked. [[Applause]] That is why this very good budget today is a budget that can serve us further, and we will negotiate the conditions to run this budget. I want to assure all Poles that in terms of both investment processes and processes concerning e.g. payments to farmers or investment processes related to the Cohesion Fund will be free of any losses. The best proof of this is that our expenses, and it was from the Polish state's budget, on municipal roads, the district roads were several times, eight times, nine times higher than the average annual expenditure from the Civic Platform and PSL. [[Applause]] Bravo! Once again, I want to appeal to a comparative basis. I also address this mainly to Members of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, there are known cases in respect of this budget for the period 2014-2020, just refer to the media reports... Which one? ...before a few months, that there was a multi-billion-dollar embezzlement, because the Mafia and its local authorities were involved in the process of using EU funds. Many billions of losses. What? And what happened to that... But where? Find out where you're going. You can find it very quickly. I see you have little interest in the affairs of the European Union, because it was a loud case. But it's okay. In Hungary... Ladies and gentlemen! There's a few billion losses here, but I'll move on to the amount that's stunning. Dear country, one of the Western European banks was involved in money laundering for over EUR 200 billion. And what did you do about it? But not Irish? Was there any discussion in the European Union? There's nothing to laugh about here, sir. The money went to finance terrorism, dirty politics, cruelty, because that's what money laundering is, over 200 billion. Have you heard any discussion about this? Why aren't you discussing it? I will tell you that I was the only one who raised this in the European Council. Nobody wanted to discuss it. Maybe it wasn't. That's how they treat you. What can I do? Is this a mechanism that suits us? So the rule of law... Somewhere here someone has spent money wrongly, I don't know how much euro, and immediately there is a reason to take away billions of euros from Poland. Somewhere in the country of the European Union... But in which country? ...very rich, I'll give you a hint, over EUR 200 billion has gone to money laundering and nothing has happened to this country or this bank. What about the arms dealer? Look, don't interrupt. That is why I would like to raise another aspect, Mr. Marshal, the High Izbo. Well, I think that we are fighting tax havens in an effective and consistent way... You forgot about those kids... ...we highlight that tax havens in the Netherlands, Switzerland, Luxembourg are at the same time hell for other countries, that this is tax collection due to other countries... What about your wife's property statement? Quiet! ...and therefore we are scored at the same time, we are pushed into an angle by these countries, because they have noticed that we are increasingly effective towards the OECD, which has begun to use a similar language. The World Bank, the International Monetary Fund - this pendulum is moving slowly towards us. They're unhappy about it, they're unhappy. I believe, dear fellow countrymen, High Izbo, that this is also one of the reasons why they try to push us into a corner and blackmail us. And we're not gonna get blackmailed. [[Applause]] That's not what Zibro said. You say, it was one of the most serious charges, perhaps on the side of Mr Lewis, that we are breaking up the European Union. You also mentioned that Europe is our homeland. Mr President, my homeland is Poland. [[Applause]] Bravo! My homeland is Poland. Poland, which is a strong, large country to ensure that all Member States are treated equally in the European Union. Yeah, in a good organization. For the European Union, I said. But first of all, let us take care of our homeland, and this is my appeal to all of you, also to Members of the opposition bench... You too. ...not about the European Union, but, above all, about our homeland. [[Applause]] So we're not breaking up the European Union, we're breaking up the opposite. Through this mechanism... Try to think again. I know you won't agree with me here, but isn't the mechanism of arbitrary provisions, regulations, rigors, penalties, sanctions, as you wish, for breaking this or that arbitrary mechanism, a mechanism that blows up the European Union? Yes, my fellow countrymen, this is a dangerous mechanism, a mechanism for breaking up the European Union. Therefore, we will do everything to restore legal certainty, this fundamental principle of the EU and the fundamental principle also in Poland. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I would like to propose a resolution for tomorrow. A resolution in which all these aspects, the most important I have said today, will be included from the legal, legislative, regulatory side. And of course we'll get it tomorrow. A resolution that you will be able to address. The resolution that our fellow countrymen will be able to read. Please read it now. This resolution will be submitted to the High House tomorrow... During the vote. ...and with the permission of the High House, please refer to her. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'll set it up... Ziobro hasn't written yet? Don't scream. I am convinced that then, in black and white, we will see the mechanisms used to consolidate the strength of the European Union - because we are too strong, wealthy Europe and strong Poland in a strong Europe. [[Applause]] - and what mechanisms They're threatening to break her up. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Bravo! But you're... behind you. It's all crowded.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u292	Thank you very much. Members, Members, Prime Minister, thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'll give you a brief reflection. Prime Minister, I'm also talking to you. See, it can be arranged so that, in full respect, you express your opinion, and the clubs show their opinion in full respect. There could be a Sejm full of discussion, there could be a Sejm normal, without Marshal's service, without the Marshal's Guard. And if I was able to do it with you, thank you very much. That's very kind of you to help me. [[Applause]] But the discussion is over. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a formal proposal, but before this proposal is presented, I would like to put the following matters on the table. We proceed with the examination of items 6 and 7 of the agenda: 6. Information for the Sejm and the Senate of the Republic of Poland... But we're already at that point. ...about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July - December 2019 and the Commission's draft resolution. Mr. Marshal... 7. Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period January - June 2020 (Croatia Presidency in the Council of the European Union) and the Commission's draft resolution. I would like to ask the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański... Formal applications. In a minute. ...to present both information, but before that, there will be formal requests. I have only a request - and I can see reason on the faces of the applicants - let them be normal. There you go. But who? Formal application by Mr Robert Winnicki from the Confederation. There you go. Minister, wait a minute, okay? One second.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a formal motion for a recess, so that the Prime Minister may have time to cool down and think about what his political formation has actually been saying all these years, including this year. It was Mr Jarosław Kaczyński who called for a European army, you spoke about EU taxes, your formation is responsible for, among others. for introducing the Treaty of Lisbon in Poland, it is your formation, despite the announcements, that for 5 years has not carried out any of the offensive for the reform of the Treaty of the European Union. What did you do? And you in July, you personally, as not only the Confederation speaks, but also your coalitioners from Solidarna Polska, have agreed to these mechanisms centralising the European Union, imposing additional fiscal burdens on the Member States of the European Union. That's the truth about your governments. Now don't talk about sovereignty here (the bell), because you didn't want to take care of that sovereignty in July. You must now make it clear to the Poles, which you do not want to admit, that the only alternative is to say that we want economic cooperation, military cooperation with the West, also political cooperation, but we do not share the same world of values... Thank you, sir. ...we don't want to build a world like this. And it is you who must finally admit, not build this mirage, that you are fighting for sovereignty. You capitulated in July, Prime Minister. You capitulated in July when it comes to Polish sovereignty, so your words today are completely meaningless. [[Applause]] Oh...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u294	Thank you very much, sir. You had about five minutes... Easy, easy. ...you didn't take advantage of it, so I have to stop you. Your motion will be put to the vote in the voting block. Please do so with the proposal, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! Thank you for your vote and appreciating the atmosphere that you have actually built, but I would like to make a formal request and introduce a certain order, because there has been a misunderstanding. We're in points six and seven. Marshal Witek announced the transition to points 6 and 7 before the Prime Minister. At this point, it must be made very clear: I hope that the Prime Minister will have the courage to stay with us until the end, until all the questions are answered, because, Prime Minister, your speech was another anti-European speech. Anti... not anti-European. You can't lie to reality. The truth is, we've got a big reconstruction program on our plate after the Cortipinus crisis, similar to Marshall's 40s and 50s. Unfortunately, you will go into history - all words have no meaning - you will go into history exactly like Prime Minister Cyrankiewicz, who from the Seymary spoke about Marshall's plan against our independence (The Bell) that Marshall's plan is the American occupation that he is a Polish patriot. Thank you very much. This led to the fact that Poles did not participate in the European Reconstruction Programme. Mr... Your policy leads to the fact that we will not participate in the great plan to rebuild Europe after the coronavirus. This is not a formal conclusion. It will be your responsibility, and as such you will become history. Applause Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u296	Thank you, sir. Mr President, let me tell you this: I like you and respect you, you have forgotten only one thing. I filed a motion at the beginning. But you just forgot about the motion. But you can't hear me. Okay, thank you. Minister, you're welcome. Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u297	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is unusual in many respects, of course, but one of the unusual elements is the fact that the statutory obligation to inform the Sejm about Polish policy during the period of the Finnish Presidency and the Croatian Presidency is only happening now. Initially, these were completely innocent reasons, the convergence of the dates of the Parliament meetings and my involvement in the work of the European Council, the Council for European Affairs. General. Later, of course, there was a pandemic that essentially limited the work of the Sejm only to matters absolutely urgent and necessary, so it is only today that we can lean on these two comprehensive documents. As a result, I will try to focus on those issues that have remained up-to-date. Some of them have also retained a completely central role in the Polish debate, as you can see. Firstly, the Finnish Presidency is of course the beginning of a new political cycle, the choice of new authorities. Of the political decisions, it is certainly worth noting that in December it was finally possible to establish that the European Union's climate neutrality by 2050 would only be counted at Union level, that it would not create an obligation for individual Member States to do the same. Importantly, in the Polish case it is clearly indicated that Poland is not legally obliged to participate in this trend. This does not mean, of course, that Poland wants to stop running its own climate policy, but it must be in line with Polish economic conditions. We have successfully included in these conclusions all these principles, which are crucial from our point of view when we are talking about climate policy. Firstly, the fair nature of the transition, secondly, the protection of industry's competitiveness, thirdly, countering, actively combating the escape of those industries which are most punished by climate policy due to their high energy intensity, energy intensity conditioned simply by the state of the art of technology. The second very important aspect for this Presidency was, of course, the budget. We've had an impasse about the budget for two reasons. First of all, Finland was one of the countries that insisted that cuts should primarily affect Central Europe, which we know has not happened today. It was difficult to do anything in those six months that would bring us closer to an agreement on this matter. Secondly, Finland has represented a completely rigid position in terms of conditionality mechanisms, which remain unsolved to this day. At that time Poland pointed to what we are pointing out today, which shows that no one should be surprised at what this has led us to. We pointed out that the proposed solutions circumvent the Treaty, really replace the Treaty and thus deprive the Member States of the legal guarantees that they have won in the Treaty. Moreover, with secondary legislation, it is difficult to have a clearer example of breaches of the rule of law, such as the amendment of secondary law of the European Union. It's exactly as if we wanted to change the constitution by law. In this House, I am sure that this is absolutely impossible. The regulation we are talking about makes exactly such a correction in the case of the international treaty. There was also a second aspect to which we pointed out, precisely this arbitraryness, this very high uncertainty about which standards of law we are talking about. This has at least two dimensions: firstly, a stable and variable definition of what is the rule of law in the European Union, and secondly, an indication of the risk itself, i.e. the fact of future and uncertain by nature, the risk itself, some hypothetical violation of the rule of law which would result in processes which would eventually lead to the suspension of the rights of a Member State of the European Union. If the matter were trivial, it would not be the subject of a major tension between the European Parliament and the German Presidency. I would like to remind you that the German Presidency, trying to find a compromise, has corrected this proposal in these two areas. If this matter were as obvious and trivial as some of you suggest, it would certainly not stand in the middle of very difficult negotiations between the Council and Parliament, negotiations that we are assessing negatively, which have not produced the right, desired effect, which, moreover, have worsened this project through the European Parliament. But I think that this is such an objective, external proof that these two matters are of great importance to this case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was certainly very good during the Finnish Presidency to work together on the common market. The Finnish Presidency, like the Polish or Finland, like Poland, is among the countries of friends of the common market. However, we have pointed out that these declarations, at the highest level, at the level of Heads of Government, adopted on the potential of the common market, the need to build a common market, the development of the common market, etc., unfortunately do not go hand in hand with legislative certainty. These high declarations do not translate into concrete legislative ones. The common market is not a complete project, it is not developed, which is even worse, protectionism, which we see in some Member States, is beginning to spill over to the European institutions, which is a clear expression of the mobility package agreed at the time of the Finnish Presidency under the dictation of the European Parliament, even worse than the original proposal, which resulted in Poland, among the eight Member States of the European Union, in October this year, opting to challenge this package in many areas to the Court of Justice of the European Union as legislation which limits freedom to provide services, introduces disproportionate restrictions, in particular for cabotage, discriminatory obligations for transporters from border countries of the European Union regarding the return to the base, with massive negative environmental effects, etc. Poland's support was strongly supported and supported by initiatives to address hybrid threats in the field of internal security. We were there immediately after the European elections - perhaps you remember that. It was right to be very concerned in the European Union whether the democratic electoral process in the European Union is sufficiently resilient to the threats of a new type: cybernetic, IT, disinformation. This was a matter which was the subject of good cooperation within the Union, through the Finnish Presidency with certainty. Unfortunately, no action has been taken on the Western Balkans agenda, the enlargement agenda. At that time, France first decided to use a veto - it is today a very important word, by some used as something extraordinary. France has decided to use a veto to... Minister, I have a very, very kind request for you: as if we were trying to end... Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: Those are two documents, so obviously... But Mr Andrzej Grzyb will talk about it in a moment too. But time's up. But you're not talking about it, Minister. No, please don't make that remark. Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: To determine if I'm talking about Or not, we need to open this document... Minister... Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: ...and then it'll be brighter. If anyone thinks it's not about... You can talk about it, but you're the ones who introduced these restrictions... ...that means he hasn't looked into this document, and it's a shame. But you're talking about the report for the previous year. He didn't read... Because that is the item on the agenda. If you could at least read the agenda from this morning, we have an hour. 18.40, that would be a big success. Bravo! But it turns out, unfortunately, there's no time for that. [[Applause]] Some other responsibilities were more important. Minister, I have a call for you... But you're the ones who introduced these restrictions. At one time, ministers could have talked longer. Would you please calm down? I have a kind request for you, as if you - I am doing this out of the deep need of your heart - do not teach Members, it makes no sense. Mr. Marshal... You spoke on the phone, as the Minister said, you have no right to speak right now. You have to finish. Unfortunately, it's eight minutes, and you're not. Unfortunately, the Prime Minister, so you don't have unlimited time. Provocator. Thank you very much. Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: There you go. If you do not want to present this information, I do not mind ending up at any time. Depends - only in five minutes. Minister for European Union Affairs Konrad Szymański: Ask questions. They may, of course, be unrelated to information that you do not read. Don't blame us. Minister, in the previous term, the rules of procedure have been changed so much that you have less time. That's the president's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u298	Thank you very much. I kindly ask Mr Andrzej Grzyb to present the justification for both draft resolutions. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, this is a historic debate, because we are talking about the Finnish and Croatian Presidency. The Finnish Presidency ended at the end of 2019 and the Croatian Presidency ended almost six months ago, so this period makes us forget many things. On 17 July 2019 the Finnish Prime Minister presented the Presidency's plan as a Presidency which proposes a sustainable Europe and a sustainable future. It was clear that Finland, as a country for which environmental issues and sustainable development are important, will lead this type of Presidency. It was primarily about strengthening the common values and the rule of law, as the Prime Minister said, making the Union more competitive and conducive to social inclusion, strengthening the Union's position as a global leader in climate action, but it was also important to protect citizens comprehensively, hybrid threats or digital security. I would like to emphasise this first point, because at the time we also discussed the rule of law, we have a retrospection on the previous point with the Prime Minister's speech. Not from now on, the rule of law in the European institutions is a day-to-day issue, and then it must be said that Finland, referring to climate policy by the Prime Minister, said this: The time for solutions is now - now, not once, in the future. I think we understand better now, the words he said then. In international matters, among other things, priority was given. The issue of brexitu, because at that time Britain was leaving the European Union and the deadline was postponed twice. Moreover, there was a prospect of starting negotiations on membership of North Macedonia and Albania - said Minister Szymański - then the French veto blocked the decision, and it was a shame, because we postponed it by six months. During the Finnish Presidency there was a new institutional composition, as we were after the parliamentary elections, a new Commission was developing. Do we remember that the institution of the joint candidate was not approved by whom? By leaders, i.e. the European Council, Heads of State and Government. Who was elected Head of the European Commission then? Ursula von der Leyen. This was also considered by the Prime Minister of our government at the time as a negotiating success on the part of Poland. This Commission, chaired by Ms von der Leyen, presented a new concept, a new development paradigm, a new green order that affects not only energy transformation, but actually all areas. It then properly presented the concept of the European Union's development for the next five years, from 2019 until 2020. There are sources of what is happening right now. At the same time, we must also remember that it has initiated such a detailed debate on the future of the Arctic. Why is it so important? Because this area is now being viewed by various countries, including China, but also Russia, as a potential exploration site: raw materials, transport roads. From this point of view, the European Union, which is touching this particular area, should be interested in this. To sum up this period, I can say that Finland was holding the Presidency at a particular time precisely because of the formation of institutional order. There was not much going on in the field of regulation, namely the new European law, although a mobility pact was signed, which so much, so to speak, has gained bad grades in Poland. What was Poland doing during this period? First of all, she presented a non-paper on a fair and ambitious budget and a multiannual financial framework. We are returning to this debate with the Prime Minister again. Then there were beginnings, so to speak, Polish ambitions and it is good that they were fulfilled, and at the moment they are not possible to implement, because there are obstacles which the Prime Minister of the Polish Government shows. At the same time, the important element is that the list of Projects of Common Interest, which is critical infrastructure, was also started. Mr Rosati also remembers this, many Members who were in the European Parliament at the time, remember how difficult it was to carry out this project so that investments in gas infrastructure, which provide gas security, [[♪ The bell ♪]] could have been carried out. Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask for another moment so that I can refer to the Presidency of Croatia so that it does not be like Minister Szymański... Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, ...that he couldn't present it. The minister couldn't. As for the Presidency... No, sir, Minister Szymański got three more minutes. Please don't hurt me. You're getting another minute. You're welcome. The Presidency of Croatia is, above all, the period during which the pandemic broke out, a new concept for the development of the Member States of the European Union, a new green order, expectations for the preparation of the multiannual financial framework - as we remember, then Croatia gave the initiative to the newly elected President of the European Council to be firmly politically empowered to do so by the European institutions - and, of course, the change of priorities due to the COVID. All this happened during the Croatian Presidency. The Prime Minister of Croatia said: sustainable development, migration policy, enlargement to the Balkans. Here they were successful, but the resistance of France, which blocked this expansion, was also broken. The Polish government must be commended here. He was the initiator of the conference in Poznań on the extension to the Western Balkans. This is an important element of the stabilisation of the European Union and Europe in this area. What didn't work out was unfinished Brexit issues. There is also a need to mention the limited possibility for Croatia to initiate epidemic initiatives. This is the domain of the Member States. However, when we are now summing up the package of decisions, it turns out that there are many good solutions there. What happened at that time when it came to the Polish side? There were above all positive financial transfers - more than €7.6 million received per balance to Poland. These are also transfers from the European Structural and Investment Funds. 52 projects worth PLN 55.3 billion. It is also worth saying that by 29 June 2020 it was signed - it is the Polish side - 63 thousand. contracts for nearly PLN 471 billion for various investments. One third of these concerns sustainable transport. I must, unfortunately, thank you, sir. Justice has to be. The minister had three minutes more, and you have three minutes more. Last sentence. Last sentence, there you go. Mr. Marshal! Information on the two presidency was considered in conjunction with the representatives of these Presidency - ambassadors - both at the beginning and at the end. Final conclusion of the committee: the European Union Commission asks the High House to accept these two informations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u300	Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Sylvester Tulaev from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u301	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the great honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during July-December 2019, i.e. under the leadership of Finland, and information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union during the period of January-June 2020, i.e. under the leadership of Croatia. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would first of all like to express my full support for the actions taken by the government by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at this very difficult time, both during the Finnish Presidency and the Croatian Presidency. In particular, I would like to thank Minister Szymanski because I know very well how hard he works, how active he is when it comes to cooperation with the European Union. I had the pleasure of working with the Minister in the Committee on European Union Affairs also during the Finnish Presidency. Thank you very much, Minister. The documents that describe the six-month work of Poland in the European Union are very extensive. One very comprehensive document is print 186, the other - equally extensive - is print 565. We discussed these documents very closely during the meeting of the European Union's Committee on Affairs. The first document was discussed in detail at the beginning of the year - 12 February 2020. The document describing the period from January to June 2020 was discussed at the committee meeting on 9 September 2020. The Finnish Presidency was based on four very specific, very concrete pillars: competitiveness, protection of citizens' security, values and climate. In fact, the Presidency itself took place at a time very specific to the European Union. Firstly, all the time unsolved - we see it today - remains the problem of the multiannual budget, which has had an important impact on the work of this Presidency. Secondly, it was the beginning of a new institutional cycle. This was linked to difficult elections concerning the cast of all EU institutions. It was also a time when it was analyzed, undertaken... the ratification crisis connected with the agreement to leave the United Kingdom from the European Union. It was also a time when we had a negative assessment of the agreement on the so-called. the mobility package. This mobility package was discussed in detail by the Prime Minister. He was also mentioned in detail by the Minister. Security issues are the ones I would like to focus on personally. This was a very important topic under the Finnish Presidency. I am thinking about the work on the interoperability of information systems. That's a very close subject for me. It is primarily about large-scale systems, systems related to the collection of information from the external borders of the European Union. This is an extremely important dimension of the protection and security of external borders, strongly supported by Poland. Of course, there wasn't much to be done for six months. It is important that the work on large-scale systems, on the interoperability of information systems continue. But the second dimension of security was, of course, the implementation of the Communication on hybrid threats, mainly informational threats. During this period, contact points were set up in Poland too, in order to coordinate international cooperation in this area, in the area of hybrid threats, which in particular during the electoral period, including during the period of European elections, were important for the credibility of the European political system. On the issue of the second Presidency - we are talking about the period from January to June 2020 - the Croatian Presidency was supposed to focus primarily on the four pillars: the Europe that is developing, the Europe that is connecting, the Europe that has an impact, and the Europe that is protecting, but as we well know (the bell), this Presidency, despite these fine pillars, has actually been focused from the very beginning, because all of this has been changed, the pandemic and, above all, the work has been devoted to it during the Croatian Presidency. Here, of course, is an important issue worth mentioning, i.e. the issue of the transfer of appropriations under the multiannual financial framework, within the framework of annual budgets. It should also be said that these shifts were very fast, although given the scale of events in those months and, above all, the scale of needs throughout Europe, these actions were indeed far insufficient. And the last point that I would like to point out, during this Croatian Presidency, I think that it is extremely important and important from the point of view of Croatia itself, but also very important from the point of view of the Polish interest... Mr. President, we are finishing... ...is an enlargement policy, which today most specifically concerns, of course, the Western Balkans. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, please adopt two draft resolutions tabled by the European Union's Committee on Affairs. It is about resolutions which state the adoption of information about Poland's participation in the work of the Union during the Finnish Presidency and during the Croatian Presidency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u302	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Darius Rosati from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Darku, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u303	Dear Marshal, Congratulations on how we are doing today. High Seym! The government's print reports 186 and 565 contain, of course, a list of topics that the European Union has been dealing with, but the key thing is missing in this report: the evaluation of Poland's policy towards the European Union and, above all, the assessment of the impact and results of this policy for us. Unfortunately, government reports hide the sad truth about Poland's weaker position in the European Union, they are a testimony of the isolation of the government of PiS in dealing with Polish interests. After all, it was supposed to be, Minister, a firm defence of Polish interests - after all, this is the mantra that we heard from PiS politicians for 5 years - which was supposed to replace the policy on knees and the policy of patting on the back. What's the truth? Instead, there is a series of humiliating failures, unfinished business, and multiple conflicts. We heard the Prime Minister here. I have to say, he's beating records as a master author. This is often called self-praising, because everything in the eyes of the Prime Minister is going well, Poland is a country from which the whole world takes an example. In the meantime, it's completely different. Let us start with the cast of high positions in the EU institutions. The Polish government lost everything to lose. In the European Parliament, Germany and France have 5 committees each, Spain and Romania after 3, and Poland has zero, no committee. Minister! You know very well that this is an unprecedented situation, after 2004 there was never such a situation that Poland had no committee. During the last term of the European Parliament, Poles headed four committees, including three committees led by MEPs from the Civic Platform. In this term of office, the political group of the ECR, in which the MEPs are MEPs, received only one committee, while the group of the European People's Party heads eight committees. The humiliating failures of Prime Minister Szydło, who has not been elected twice as Chairman of the Labour Committee, and Mr Krasnodębski, who was the only candidate who was not elected Vice-President of the European Parliament, have come to this end. In history... The proposal is clear: you have nothing to say in the European Parliament. [[Applause]] What about the rest of the EU institutions? The senseless resistance of the PiS against the moderate election of Mr Timmermans, Mr Timmermans, ended with the fact that the head of the European Commission was a German from the European People's Party. We're happy about it, but you should be worried. Timmermans became her first deputy. Bravo, masters of shooting each other in the foot. On the 5 most important posts in the European Union - the European Parliament, the Commission, the Council, the European Central Bank, the High Representative - there is no one from Poland, there is no one from Central and Eastern Europe. That's not the situation yet. Yes, sir. It's a disaster. In previous terms Poles were among these most important officials. To this marginalization of Poland was led by PiS-owska politics of conflicts with the West, among others. resignation from cooperation in the Weimar Triangle. In return, you created an anti-European alliance with Hungary and alternative structures without much political significance, e.g. in the form of a so-called. The Intermarine as a counterweight to the European Union. Anti-EU, not anti-European. Prime Minister! Minister! Such actions are weakening the Union and weakening the Union is an action for Russia rather than for Polish interests. [[Applause]] Let's move on to a few main topics that you mentioned as well. The PiS government did not defend Polish transport companies by losing the vote on the mobility package. Or perhaps you would ask yourself why in two previous terms we managed to defend Polish transport companies and why you failed. [[Applause]] Because you can't build alliances, you can't just work together. In the EU's energy policy Poland is the main brake, thus losing access to measures. But who takes seriously the country that builds more coal blocks in Ostrołęka and whose president promises to continue mining coal for decades to come? Remember the Eastern Partnership? You have led to the complete settlement of this initiative, which is crucial for Polish security. We have no longer counted as a country shaping the Union's policy towards Ukraine (the bell) and having an impact on Russia's policies. Polish PiS did not count at all in the Union's response to events in Belarus. One might ask why this hostile language towards the European Union, which we have also heard today from the Prime Minister's mouth. How can we simply build ourselves a front of enemies in a situation where Poland benefits from membership in the European Union? We have dealt with scandalous statements by the entire management of the Ministry of Justice, which protested against the rule of law, because that is the truth. And you, Prime Minister, joined this group, joined those who wanted to veto the budget and veto the rule of law in Poland. [[Applause]] What does that have to do with what we call Polish business? Are you really convinced you're going the right way? We have heard opinions and you have said, Prime Minister, that the Union will apply blackmail, that the Union will take away our sovereignty, that it is seeking to enslave Poland and colonize Poland, that in the rule of law regulation it will impose an obligation on Poland to tolerate or accept homosexual marriages, with the adoption of children, that it will force us to accept refugees, moreover, that we will be able to trade children at fairs or markets. Mr... All this nonsense and all this anti-European language is just outrageous. Which face do you show as true, Prime Minister: is it when you speak to the Polish Sejm, or when in July you agreed to the European Council and the budget, and to the provisions linking payments from the budget with the rule of law? When are you telling the truth? Mr President, I must ask you kindly to finish. I've already given you an extra. Two minutes. Thank you very much, Marshal. You're welcome. Well, I'll tell you why you're acting like this. Because you don't care about Poland when you talk about sovereignty. You are guided by the reason that you wish to remain completely free in submission to courts, media, services, the filling of companies of the Treasury, the violation of women's rights. You want to keep ripping Poles off their rights and money and you just don't want anyone to interfere. Thank you very much, sir. Under the pretext of fighting for sovereignty, you continue to fight for your own impunity. And that is the truth about your European policy. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I submit a motion for an amendment on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club for a draft resolution. This amendment aims to ensure that the Sejm rejects information about Poland's relations and participation in the work of the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u304	Thank you very much, Mr President, but I must return this to you because the amendments are tabled at second reading. You'll report it when the time comes. Mr Andrzej Szejna, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome. It's a resolution, not a bill. The resolution is adopted in two readings. There's a second reading coming up, and you're gonna do it. No problem, I'll take it, relax. Here you go, Mr Andrzej Shejna.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Information for the Sejm and Senate of the Republic of Poland about the participation of the Polish Republic in the work of the European Union in the period July-December 2019 (the Presidency of Finland) and January-June 2020 (the Presidency of Croatia) should be otherwise entitled, Minister. So: information from the PiS government about blocking the main work with the European Union, weakening Poland's position and fighting against the common values of the European Union, such as democracy, the rule of law, solidarity, respect for the rights of minorities. It should be a document of self-incrimination of the Government of Law and Justice, whose next dramatic chapter under the title: financial polexit you are writing right in front of our eyes. What did the government fund at that time Poland? During the Presidency of Finland, a critical judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 5 November 2019, inter alia. on the famous law reducing the age of retirement of persons serving as general court judges, Supreme Court judges and prosecutors and the diversity of women and men, with the discretionary right of Mr Zbigniew Ziobra to decide who can stay because he fits the current power. On 19 November, 2 weeks later, the Court of Justice of the European Union ruled that the Supreme Court itself must assess whether the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court meets the requirements of an independent and independent court within the meaning of Union law. Then in December - a shameful muzzle law. On the way - an effective request from the European Commission to the Court of Justice of the European Union to apply safeguard measures on a complaint against the Polish Government for a model of disciplinary liability for judges. These facts perfectly show the government's attitude towards one of the main priorities of the Finnish Presidency, which was the rule of law. Another important point of this Presidency was climate neutrality. The EU leaders reached an agreement in Brussels on the achievement of climate neutrality by 2050 by the European Union. But Poland was unable to declare its will to implement this goal, Minister. The Croatian Presidency had to match the strategy to the deteriorating situation across Europe and pass the ball of the German Presidency as it were. At the same time, two very important issues were worked in the European Union during the first half of the year: the brexite and the budget for 20212027, which was to be linked to and will be linked to the rule of law. It was this budget that the Government of Law and Justice negotiated in July and considered to be a success. Following the right leadership of the PiS, 16 January 2020. The European Parliament adopted a resolution in which it called on the Croatian Presidency and all others to organise regular and structured hearings between Poland and Hungary on violations of the Treaty. In addition, the European Parliament called on the Commission to use all possible measures that could stop Poland and Hungary from seriously violating EU values. On 8 April the Court of Justice ruled provisional measures, suspended the functioning of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, which does not meet the requirements of independence. It is worth mentioning that Poland is too late to join the EU's mechanism of joint purchase of protective equipment. During the Croatian Presidency, Poland was pushed even further into the margin. The conflict between the rule of law and the Polish justice system has been intensified, and in addition the statements of the most important politicians of the PiS have led to the consolidation of the image of Poland as a stand of intolerance. We are now approaching the bleak finale you've been working hard for months. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Jarosław Kaczyński at the COREPER meeting rejected the draft multi-annual financial framework and the so-called "Medical Financial Framework." a reconstruction fund. They did so under the pressure of Zbigniew Ziobra. I do not know whether Zbigniew Ziobro is President of the Council of Ministers in Poland, or is Jarosław Kaczyński President of PiS or Zbigniew Ziobro again? But one thing's for sure. Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro played both. Since we all know in this House that the adoption of a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the European Union, the adoption of this regulation means that all funds, payments from the budget of the European Union will be covered by the rule of law. And it doesn't matter if the government of law and justice (the bell) is vetoing whether the government of law and justice is vetoing. Also, those measures which will flow on a budget basis will be covered by the rule of law. Yes, sir. So don't lie to Mr. Ziobro that he's gonna pull something off, and don't let Mr. Morawiecki and Mr. Kaczyński lie that they're playing for something. This case has already been settled. On the other hand, what I am concerned about today is that, if a veto is submitted, of course, the European Union's economic recovery fund and the fight against the effects and consequences of the economic crisis will collapse. This fund will, of course, be built outside Poland on the basis of a broader or closer agreement and cooperation, whether based on the euro area, so Poland will be excluded from it, Polish nurses, doctors, entrepreneurs, local governments and all other institutions that can obtain funds from this fund, because it was created only to fight the pandemic and the crisis, and the consequences. Poland will be excluded from this fund. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say today: if you veto this budget, you will act to the detriment of future generations, you will act to the detriment of the Polish state, the interest of the Treasury, and you should be held accountable for this, including criminal and civil liability. That is why I also encourage all citizens, Poles and Poles: send lawsuit against Morawiecki, Kaczyński, Ziobrze, Rau and others, Szymanski, because they took the money they deserved from you, they did harm to you. And of course, if we come to power, we will settle this shameful act, an act directed against the interests of Poles and Poles. And last but not least, Mr. Marshal. It seems to me that for Law and Justice, for Law and Justice politicians today, it is no longer important what Poland will look like next year, 2, 3, 4 years. Looks like the only thing that matters is how their own business is gonna look, how their families are gonna be planted, how their own wallets are gonna look. And the wallets of Poles through your decisions and veto budget will be very, very modest. I would like to say here that I will recommend that the Left Club reject the government's information on the Presidency, the Croatian Presidency and the Finnish Presidency in the European Union because of the ineffective and even harmful activities of the Polish Government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u306	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andrzej Grzyb from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that these two previous voices from my colleagues in two clubs clearly show that there is a shortage of debates on European policy and Polish presence in the European Union. This is the basic deficit in this House, and we ourselves, as the Chamber, Mr Marshal, agree to it because if we present information after a year at the meeting of the High Chamber concerning the Finnish Presidency, six months later - the Croatian Presidency, where so many political facts and decisions have taken place that concern the vital interests of Poland, then we ourselves waive the right to ask the government how these matters are. We now, of course, accumulate this with what is happening during the German Presidency. Here I would like to say yes: Finland has put forward a concept, there was a certain idea of managing the European institutions under the Finnish Presidency. Was there any information in the Polish Parliament on this subject? Has anyone ever discussed why these most important functions have been separated? Why was the institution of the joint candidate sent back to the lamus? Why did the European leaders, including the Polish Prime Minister, choose a completely different candidate who appeared in these negotiations? Why did someone become President of the European Central Bank and someone else head of the European Council? Why was no one from Central and Eastern Europe involved in this institutional division as the head? After all, this is a loss for this part of Europe. And we are supposed to work together with all the countries that create this Central Europe. Why isn't this here at this House meeting? Another issue, a 5-year programme prepared by the new Commission head and the Commission as a whole, including the work of the Polish Commissioner. Has this matter ever been presented here to the High House so that we can talk about political priorities for five years, until 2024? After all, everything that results from this will soon be on the Commission's programme for individual years. Has it ever been discussed in the High Chamber, for example? the Commission's work plan for the following year? The Commission's plan for 2021 is also presented this quarter. This information is limited only to the European Union's Committee on Affairs, and this is the result of the whole legislative plan for the following year. All the most important documents, including climate law, including elements of the implementation of the multiannual financial framework, if, of course, Poland, the Polish government, the Polish Prime Minister, will allow for the adoption of this multiannual budget, including the reconstruction plan, will be discussed, we will be involved. I remember many debates about various decisions, among others. with regard to gas safety. The governments, so to speak, have given up this case. If we hadn't talked at parliamentary level, we wouldn't have those elements, the gas safety fuses that we have right now. This is obviously being corrected right now. But, for example, this issue of strategic investment financed by European money, among others. gas infrastructure, interconnector, electrical infrastructure. Has this ever been discussed more widely in the High House as a separate point? The new green governance, the new development paradigm for funding at European Union level - after all, it affects the economies of all Member States, as big economies as the Polish economy. Did he stand here at the High House meeting? We are aware of this right as Members of this High House. After all, such debates, such as: on social Europe... This case is back with the COVID. It is a dimension, so to speak, of a Europe that takes care of citizens' health. On the one hand, there is a COVID, and yet earlier, in the campaign, even before the parliament, we found that cancer needs to be solved. Have we devoted any discussion to this here in this High House? Digital Europe, all issues related to new technologies, e.g. security issues related to new investments, such as 5G. After all, these are issues that are part of the European agenda. They are discussed by de facto 10% The political composition of the High House, which is the European Union's Committee on Affairs, but we do not have a general debate, which primarily concerns... I am talking about documents which are not (the bell) of a legislative nature, because I believe that these elements should be the subject of a general debate of the Polish Parliament. And we often waste time here, and then we wonder that certain solutions, such as: The mobility package or decisions on a fair transition or a budget or some priorities do not meet our parliamentary expectations. We ourselves, as the High Chamber, give up this right to talk about it here, more than once every six months. In my opinion, this is also the role of this House to expect such information. I think 10 minutes to present the priorities that have been in force for almost a year, the effects of this, that is very little time. We should spend more time on this debate so that we can understand how these mechanisms work, what is the distribution of votes, interests and what Poland can gain from this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u308	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Robert Winnicki from the Wheel of the Polish Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The time has come for the truth. The time of truth about what the European Union looks like, where it is going and what is the policy of the camp governing it. That doesn't surprise us at all. Environments concentrated in the Confederation, whether national or conservative-liberal, patriotic, traditional, have been talking about this for years. We talked about this in 2003, and we talked about it on the occasion of the Treaty of Lisbon, voted, signed, supported by law and justice, and we talked about it recently. We also talked about this in July. Yes, yes, I agree with the voice of the Left that matters were settled in July. And Prime Minister Morawiecki, a subordinate of Jarosław Kaczyński, who has repeatedly raised the issue of the EU army, Prime Minister Morawiecki, who is calling for a tax bill at EU level, Prime Minister Morawiecki, who agreed in July to additional fiscal burdens and to create an instrument through which, in particular, the Federal Republic of Germany during this period of epidemics, economic crisis... Yes, the Federal Republic of Germany and the Brussels elite want to use the ongoing crisis to cement the Union as a federal superstate, not only economically and politically, but also in terms of worldview. This is what the European Commission's decision last week tells us. Yeah, it's happening right now. Yes, Morawiecki's government, Mateusz Morawiecki personally agreed to this in July this year, at the summit. That's all that's happening right now is just doing it. There is no treaty offensive that was announced at the beginning of Beata Szydło's reign. At that time, so much was said about the fact that the European Union needs a thorough reform, a treaty reform moving towards a Europe of homelands. What was done for five years? Nothing. No political offensive. No political offensive and five years of patting everything that comes from Brussels, how it goes - this is the reality of the PiS government. And today, the Prime Minister, to whom the truth has looked into his eyes, is there any slogans about sovereignty? Those are public terms. It was not Matthew Morawiecki who was cheated at the summit in July. It is Mateusz Morawiecki who cheats Polish patriots, cheats those who support sovereign Poland. Let us repeat this: today the foundation of Polish sovereignty must be to prevent economic, political, but also cultural, worldview colonization from the West, which unfortunately passed through a worldview, moral, cultural revolution several decades ago in the spirit of the new Left. This means not to allow Poland to become a country cooperating with the West politically, economically, militaryly, but placing a new quality in central Europe: the quality of cooperation also with the East, with dynamically developing Eastern Asia and making foreign policy really multi-vector and telling Brussels, Berlin: no. But it is about hardening, also based on the reform of the Treaty of the European Union. Today we must go to the offensive, not to defend ourselves fearlessly against those who want to dominate us and impose their own orders on us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u310	Thank you very much, sir. There you go, Mr Korwin-Mikke. A friend of yours left you a minute. We'll add something.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u311	You'll add something at best, Marshal. Yeah, just don't overdo it, you know. Good. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We need to start with what the European Union is. It started with the European Coal and Steel Community, then there was a general economic agreement, then a federation of countries called the European Communities, then a Federation state called the European Union, and now it is being converted into a centralised country with an army and who else it can be. The plan is being implemented with Ventotene and let us be clear that Poland, even if it was to oppose it, is not doing so. Mr. Andrzej Szejna asked why PiS is doing this. They're just pretending to be patriots in front of their electorate. That's all they say. Relax, Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki won't give a veto because he would have less money to steal. It's just one big scam. Don't be afraid that he'll do anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You, of course, fight for this money for Poles, and he fights for patriots and this way You split the electorate into halves. Let's be clear: it's not like you can sell anything for money. Money is, of course, very important, but money isn't everything. I'm just saying, once again, that this money is obviously not going to be vetoed. Of course, it is true that vetoing the budget will do nothing, the mechanism will continue to work, the rule of law will be controlled, checked. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, it is true that what PiS is doing is not a rule of law, it is a complete legal mess. This is a totalitarian state, not authoritarian - the PiS has no authority. It is a built totalitarian state, just like the Sanctification after 1935, after the April Constitution. On the other hand, the Union is trying, instead of the right, to impose a left, i.e. a law in which there are no normal rights, only human rights, social rights, there is not justice, only social justice, etc., in short - socialism. Someone said it was a Soviet model. Ladies and gentlemen, you've read the Orwells. Remember, all animals are equal and some are equal. Have you read the Charter of Fundamental Rights imposed by the Union? It says: both sexes are equal, which does not rule out privileges for one of them. It's exactly Orwell. Orwell is being built, communism is being built, and we as the right-wing oppose it, and PiS does not do it at all. The piss only cheats, pretends to oppose it. And we're attacking the government on this side, not the government on that side, exactly the opposite. Thank you, Marshal, for your patience and understanding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u312	It's always nice to listen to the smart guy. Thank you very much. The list of Members enrolled in the task of the question has been closed. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u313	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is difficult not to add to this discussion a few words of comment to today's speech by the Prime Minister and explain to the Polish people what this is all about, why the PiS is afraid of the rule of law. Let me explain to you why PiS is afraid of the rule of law. Firstly, the aim is to ensure that Minister Ziobrze is comfortable with the conditions for further destruction of the independent judiciary. And why is it so important? And why does it have to do with the money? This has to do with money, because we are already dealing with the detection of irregularities in the spending of EU funds by the Polish government. And let us give an example of the grant of PLN 7 million for the portal Puszcza.tv founded by Gazeta Polska and the PiS Foundation Independent Media. There's an ongoing investigation of OLAF in this case. And that money couldn't be finally transferred. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what this is all about. It's about PiS stealing EU money with impunity. This is what the European Union does not want to accept. That's the problem, Minister, and you know it. You want impunity within the European Union, and that will not be our agreement. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u314	Thank you, Member. Another question - Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u315	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! This debate launched by Prime Minister Morawiecki on the state of budgetary negotiations - it is a de facto adopted budget, enriched with a post-crisis recovery programme - is one of the most serious debates that will go down in history because we are really making a decision that will have consequences not only with regard to the budget, the fund, but also with regard to the future of the European Union and Poland's presence in the Union. Therefore, Minister, I would like to ask you one question and I would like you to take this question very seriously. The European Union is preparing to implement a major programme for the recovery of the European economy following the crisis of Coronavirus, which is to be the driving force behind the European economy, to save the European economy. Today we are not only questioning our presence in this programme, but we want to challenge the whole programme, we want to stop this programme for the whole European Union. I would like to ask you: Do you not really see an analogy by participating in this process, between the policy that Mr Morawiecki is leading and the policy of the communist government of Prime Minister Cyrankiewicz, who... Thank you. ...using arguments about patriotism... Thank you, sir. Time's up. ...he was rejecting Marshall's plan? [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Can't you see... Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition. Are you... Time's up, sir. We stick to the rules. Time's up. Everybody's got the same one. And what are the rules? Everyone has a certain time. You're welcome... You're scared. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u316	Does Mr Krzysztof Gadowski want to ask a question? You're welcome. Let's go to the podium. That was nice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, we are already speaking from a certain perspective, the history of the two Presidency, but perhaps well, as regards what the Prime Minister was referring to today. I would like to briefly quote a few figures and a few dates related to the Fair Transformation Fund. Well, as the Minister kindly mentioned at the beginning, this information also appeared at the end of December. During the discussion of climate neutrality in the European Union, when the date fell: by 2050, of course Poland resigned. But then there was also a subject related to a righteous transformation. What's going on? In the next Presidency, we are informed that such measures will be available during each month. In July, we were informed that Poland could eventually receive EUR 3.5 billion from this pool. What happens next? In this €3.5 billion (The Bell) there are funds from the multiannual financial framework and from the additional recovery package. And today, in light of what the Prime Minister says... The Prime Minister has been driving in Silesia so far and said: cool, we will upgrade, the miners have agreed... Mr... ...to eliminate mines until 2049... Okay, thank you very much. ... The Polish Energy Group says they can handle this... Thank you, sir. Mr Michael Szczerba. ...and today the Prime Minister says: there will be no money. Mr... What do you say to nine mining regions in Poland... Okay... ...where will these resources be found for this transformation? Thank you very much, sir. It's been 1.5 minutes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u318	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u319	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! PLN 675 billion - Poland has so much to lose for the next 10 years in the conflict within the European Union. But today, ladies and gentlemen, there are also concrete examples of violations of the rule of law. Not recognised by the Supreme Court and the TSUE, the Disciplinary Chamber has decided to waive the immunity of Judge Igor Tulei. On the day we talk about the rule of law, there is no more powerful example of how you destroy the independence of the courts in Poland. And the other thing, Minister. It's not just about the rule of law, it's really about your impunity. Because if the European Union was watching, her officials, what you were doing with the COVID purchases, what you were doing when you were buying ventilators... After all, it could have been European funds used for this purpose. So far, 70 million zlotys have not returned. This is a manco at the Ministry of Health. You chose a contractor, which, for example, so far (The bell) has not presented its company's financial statements for 2019. Who's been checking out this company? CBA? There's no trust in the special forces in this country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u320	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u321	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Under the leadership of Finland in the Council of the European Union, there was quite rightly a discussion on the Union's ability to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. The outcome of the discussion was the December 2019 European Council, which set the objective for the Union to achieve climate neutrality in 2050. Due to the specific nature of our country's economy, largely based on coal, Poland questioned this term. However, last month, the European Parliament, at the request of the Environment Committee, voted in favour of increasing CO emissions reductions I therefore ask for information: What is the position and what will the government take in this new situation? Whether he continues to boycott, as he has done so far, EU decisions or will finally stand at the level of the challenge (the bell) and take constructive talks and actions to increase CO reduction
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u322	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Morawiecki, once governor of an international bank for Poland, and today, if you believe the declarations, the main fighter for Polish sovereignty against international capital, said some things that probably the leftist might like. This is the fact that it is not so that these means to Poland flow quite out of the goodness of the heart. This is a deal that pays off both sides because the more advanced countries of the European Centre benefit greatly from the common market and this money also flows the other way - perhaps even the other way in the first place. But how will it strengthen Poland that this money will only flow from Poland to the West and not the other way? And that's what this government's veto will lead to. The government speaks a lot about strong Poland and weakens it and shows such a naivety, paying very much attention to a particular legal solution, and completely ignoring what really constitutes the strength of Poland - the strength of the Polish economy, which it wants to weaken, by depriving us of resources, the strength of Polish alliances in the European Union (Dawn), which it is simply destroying, by placing on an absurd, operetta alliance with Hungary. This will determine the strength of Poland in the future... Thank you. ...and at this moment the government of Mateusz Morawiecki Poland weakens with its irresponsible charges.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u324	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Today is a black day in the history of this House. Prime Minister Morawiecki gave a specific exposé of polexitu and Poles already write about it massly on the Internet, fearing that PiS brings Poland out of the European Union. That's why it's worth reminding you, Minister, and also tell the Prime Minister. Thanks to the open borders, we have gained a great deal. That's, among other things. capital, which allowed to create very well-paid jobs, markets for domestic producers, the possibility of training young people at the best European universities, working abroad, when this work was so lacking here in Poland, and living cash, living cash in the form of more than EUR 110 billion today. And today, the Prime Minister dares to say from this speaker that only the strongest are gaining from the European Union? We weren't the strongest in the European Union, and she gave us a lot. But the Prime Minister does not want Poles to get rich. He wants them to work for a bowl of rice because he only wants the PiS oligarchs to get rich. We're not authorized to do that. Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u326	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. I can't see. In that case, Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As the Prime Minister spoke at this point, I must refer to his statement. Of course, there were a lot of lies, but very specific ones. Besides, this formation, this government has made semantics a tool for enchanting reality, practicing politics. We've heard of the so-called. The rule of law, and today, the so-called rule of law has emerged. veto, so-called. The budget, and breaking the rule of law is breaking that one, and I quote the Prime Minister. Yeah, so-called. the so-called premiere. The government. Yeah, 'cause for you, the law is so-called. Right, and justice is what we call it. Justice. Because for you, Poland is so-called. Poland, a party farm, which you name to own. For you, the state is right. Or better yet, stools. You are not worried about Poles or Poles. This is your sovereignty. It seems to you that if you call something, it will happen. You make yourselves worthy of God's qualities, that the word will become flesh, [[♪ The bell ♪]] 'Cause the Prime Minister said it. That's not true. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u328	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki. I don't see him in the O.R. Therefore, Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the name of party, particular interests, you would even be able to get Poland out of the Union. You just talked about a great success. Today on the government website I read: There is success at the European Council. The ambitious EU budget and the success of Poland. PLN 750 billion for Poland is a huge financial injection for our country. What happened? It was so beautiful, and now it's a veto? How can a party called law and justice fear the rule of law? Check the dictionary. It is the observance by citizens, institutions, bodies of the state of the law in force. You guys just want to be unpunished. You want to control not only the Sejm, but also the courts, the tribunals, the prosecution's office and act like the rulers in the East. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The European Union is not some imaginary community, it is a big project and Poles want to be an important part of it. And it is in our interest to be part of this community, because it is a guarantee of our security and development. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u330	Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u331	Chairman of the Committee! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Here is Poland's true participation in the work of the European Union. This Decision shall enter Poland has contributed EUR 5 billion to the Union, and only EUR 16 billion has been received, i.e. purely for this stupid PLN 45 billion. And how much she talked about it. They don't like the chamber that disciplines independent judges, politicising the TK, even the LGBT-free zones they don't like. In return, they received not stupid money from Poland, but real values: how to unpunishedly break the constitution, how to honor independence, by setting fire to their capital, how to rob their own nation during a pandemic, how to effectively hide paedophiles in sutannas, how to introduce a secular state as in the 21st century to force women to produce dead fetuses, how to separate parliament from their constituents and how not to accept 150 billion euros in such uncertain times. That's bravery. Or stupidity? The nation will judge you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll be right there. He's coming for you, and even the railings won't help you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u332	Thank you. Good. Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u333	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Poland has always had two choices - either to the West to Europe or to the East towards Moscow. The politics of veto is simply the policy of alliance with Putin. The only sovereignty that the PiS cares about, and even more solidarity with Russia, is the sovereignty of the violation of law by Zbigniew Ziobra. What does a veto mean? Veto means first of all, taking back the renewal fund because it will not be there, but also means that the commission will be equally covered by the rule of law. There's one thing I'd like to ask you. Is the Prime Minister a loser or a cheater? Because either the Prime Minister doesn't know what he's voting for and what he's signing, and he did it in July, or he cheats the public that he didn't sign a budget connection with the rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, if you agree to link the rule of law [[♪ The bell ♪]] tho The budget you call the loss of sovereignty, it was the loss that Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to. July. And now it's over. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u334	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u335	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we voted in 2003 for Poland's accession to the European Union - it is worth remembering this - we chose our dreams, we chose both very mundane dreams, such as the possibility of travelling, working in another country, meeting people and seamlessly realizing our passions, as well as very serious dreams: about safe Poland, about the safety zone, about economic development, about the future of our children and our grandchildren. We've achieved success. It's worth remembering. Today, a group of radicals is acting against the Polish state, because Poland's presence in the European Union and a strong Polish voice in the Union are a Polish state right. You unceremoniously trample our values, unceremoniously push them beyond the core of decision-making, you decided to test them. You don't want to cooperate. Every one of us has to ask ourselves today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: Is Poland's membership of the European Union a right state, or being outside it? Today will depend on the decisions that we will all make. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u336	Thank you very much. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u337	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have just heard the exposé of the Prime Minister Morawiecki. The fact that the Prime Minister is now waving a sword and threatening a veto for the EU budget is pathetic and ridiculous. That only indicates that you admit to violating the rule of law. After all, all citizens have the right to an independent court, the right which you are trying to trample, stubbornening the courts, harassing Polish judges, just as today Igor Tuleya. Is this supposed to be in the interest of Poles and Poles? The Union is not some distant hostile continent. I do not know if you remember, but Poland is part of the European Union that you are trying to fight. The European Union is us. In view of the great financial needs caused by the fight against pandemics, the economic and climate crisis, as never before, we need broad European cooperation. Therefore, the attitude of the Polish government is extremely irresponsible and stupid. Take care of the virus, not human rights. Listen to the voices of the protesters. [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the street and leave their rights in peace. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u338	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We cannot discuss issues related to Poland's relations with the European Union in isolation from what happened today in the Sejm, as the Prime Minister announces, which may happen tomorrow. You can't, ladies and gentlemen, out of arrogance, shoes and dictatorship make values higher than talking, mutual respect and understanding different rations. You cannot be afraid, ironically, that there will be law and justice in Poland and the rule of law. Mr Morawiecki today announces with pride that he will veto the EU budget, and makes it Polish business. Then say to the Prime Minister, "A, say: B. Who will you take these billions from in the next seven years?" Who? Specifically. The Prime Minister wants to build Poland's relations with the European Union, building a great wall, just as he is building barriers surrounding the Sejm. Don't be afraid of the citizens, don't be afraid to talk. Compromise can do a lot more than that. I'm counting on understanding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u340	Thank you. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u341	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The measure of sovereignty is not the possibility of trampling on a constitutional or international legal order. This is an example of dictatorship, not sovereignty. Anyone who has Polish sovereignty in his heart also has the rule of law in his heart. Anyone who does not have the rule of law in his heart disregards Polish sovereignty. That is why I appeal to the PiS Members: stop talking nonsense about non-existent threats. Today, only the Polish right of state is at risk because of your policy, today the only thing at risk is the Polish presence in the European Union - as a result of your policy. Where will Poland be more sovereign and safe? At the heart of a united European Union or outside the European Union, alone like Ukraine, which is fighting a lonely defence war with Russia? Does Prime Minister Morawiecki really want to enroll in Polish history as the one who led Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] from the European Union? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u342	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Union will operate on the basis of values, or it will not be at all. The rule of law is one of the fundamental European values enshrined in the Treaties. The rule of law, the rule of law is in the interests of all of us so that we are safe. Compliance with the rule of law is in the interest of Poland. It is also in the interest of Poland that a good European budget should enter into force. You know very well, Prime Minister, that the rule of law is in our interest, and this budget is in our interest, but you are willing to act to the detriment of Poland because you need it in the current political game with Zbigniew Ziobra. This is a conscious action to the detriment of Poland. Art. 129 of the Penal Code says: who, being authorized to represent the Republic of Poland, acts to the detriment of it, is at risk of imprisonment for up to 10 years. But this isn't the biggest punishment that can happen to you, because you're going to get out of jail sooner or later. The severest punishment that will happen to you, Prime Minister, will be judged by history as a traitor, just like marketling. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u344	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u345	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This debate results in a very interesting conclusion. From pro-EU clubs to the Confederation, which is anti-EU, everyone in this House has a claim to law and justice that it does not matter entirely in the European Union. Because that's the truth, the PiS doesn't count in the European Union. It can be said that under the rule of PSL and Platforms we aspired to the role of quarterback in Europe. The PiS ruined it all. Continuing with the topic that Minister Rosati was talking about: that we do not have important people in the Union, we have no officials who have something to say on key issues, then we all have information that the vice-ministers who come to Brussels are completely unprepared that the officials from the ministries who come to these talks are also unprepared, are late, leave early, supposedly save on hotels. That's the kind of information that comes to us. I'd like you to address this, Minister, because it's clear. [[♪ The bell ♪]] from why various Polish cases are collapsed, e.g. Directive on posted workers. I'm not surprised PiS lost it. And we could... Thank you, sir. ...to block it for a very long time, for the benefit of entrepreneurs in the transport industry. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u346	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u347	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister, you are a historian by education, a banker by profession, with a crush on the Prime Minister. All three areas should provide you with a thorough knowledge of the European Union. As a historian, you should know what was behind the founders of the European Coal and Steel Community, what was behind them, binding economic states. They were enlightened so that there would not be another war in Europe. As a banker, you should know that membership of the Polish Union is simply paying off. And as Prime Minister, you should be guided by the good of the Polish people. Therefore, I have a question for you: Why do the actions of you, your government, your party and your president mark the damage of the Polish people and the European Union? Because in a straight line they lead to polexit, and it does not pay for Poland or the European Union, and in the long term it can be a cause for dangerous events for Poland and the Union. Second question, Prime Minister: Why you? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Doing what Mr. Putin's satrap says, blowing up the European Union from the inside? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u348	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! 103 billion PLN - this is what Poland and Poles may lose in connection with your irresponsible, even stupid decisions concerning veto towards the European Union. Because of your stupid and irresponsible decisions, Poland may lose money to rebuild after the crisis caused by the epidemic. Through your stupid, irresponsible decisions Polish entrepreneurs, local governments, citizens can lose money for investments, for development, for environmental protection, for everything that has so far been built with the money of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, on this floor, the Prime Minister of the rule of law called opening Pandora's can. If you veto the budget of the European Union, then you for Poles and for all citizens, including citizens of the European Union, will be the can of Pandora, because under this pretext you want to take over the rule of law, you want absolute power. You're gonna make history anyway. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u350	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u351	I would like to ask about Poland's position in terms of the number of general directors, deputy directors or employees. How has it changed in the last year and a half? Because we're supposed to reach a certain amount that we're entitled to. The second thing is the budget. The budget should be denied not by the rule of law, but by the fact that it is a weak budget for Poland. What does this budget look like in fixed prices, if we look - excluding, of course, the reconstruction fund - at the present perspective, at the previous perspective, at fixed prices, comparable? Finally, one more problem. This is the problem at all of our position perceived by the presence of resorts. Because it's not just up to the Minister. These allegations may be the least directed to you, because I personally appreciate the activity of you and the workers of this vertical, the former office of the integration committee, and what is such a separate form. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's always been good staff. Thank you. Finally, with regard to the rule of law issue. Expansion... The first version was: the rule of law in terms of misuse of EU funds, it has been extended. Thank you, sir. What was the trial? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u352	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On page 32 of the information on the Croatian Presidency in the Union, you write that, within the health segment, the Union has allocated EUR 10 billion to the first work on the reconstruction segment. COVID-19 measures are envisaged under this framework, as part of the development of the manufacture of medicinal products, the provision of equipment to hospitals, the dissemination of tools, services and goods in the supply of equipment related to COVID-19 to hospitals. The programme was published on 28 May. You write that intensive work is currently underway and is to be launched at the beginning of 2021. In view of what the Prime Minister said today to the High House, what guarantees do you have that Poland (The Bell) will not be eliminated from this programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u355	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Veto or death - it's a slogan, a symbol of defending Polish sovereignty against the insolent and scandalous attack of the German Presidency, which wants to break the article under the mantle of the pandemic. 7 of the European Treaty, an article that speaks directly about this... But you're unlucky because it wasn't the Germans who introduced the rule of law. ...how the mechanism for sanctioning and clearing the rule of law works in the European Union. Today, the politicians of the Civic Platform do not want to remember that our Polish veto is the voice for defending the rule of law in the European Union, because bad things cannot be fought through wicked actions, as in the case of the German Presidency. Today, the voice of Minister Zbigniew Ziobra, who is heard throughout Europe, will prevail throughout the European Union. You are traitors to Polish interests. Member, was there someone in your way? I don't recall. He will win because we are right, because we are on the side of Polish sovereignty. We stand on the side of Polish sovereignty and do not agree to this (Dzinek) to receive Polish sovereignty through German decisions. But how can you lie like that, Marshal? We will wait until the Portuguese Presidency and win the best budget for Poland... He was the best. ...without any link between EU funds and the rule of law. No for German impudence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mrs Pomaska, I ask you very much to calm your emotions and behave with dignity, just as you should behave in this High House. Please pay attention to the Member as he lies. Mr Dariusz Rosati and the last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u357	Dear Marshal! Thank you so much for the opportunity to ask a question. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he understands the consequences of vetoing the budget in the Council of the European Union? Because if it vetoes, Poland will not have the money from the reconstruction programme and will have only part of the money from the budget and will be covered by the rule of law regulation - it will be covered. If the Prime Minister does not veto, Poland will continue to be covered by this regulation, while at the same time having full access to the budget and full access to the reconstruction fund. That's the first question. Second question. The Prime Minister has repeatedly said that the regulation is arbitrary. So I'm asking. 25 countries agree to this regulation without regard to it as an arbitrary regulation. I would like to ask if the Prime Minister knows such a Polish proverb: If all these people say that you are drunk, go home and go to bed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u358	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Minister for European Union Affairs, Mr Konrad Szymański, to answer these questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the vast majority of the votes in different forms, let's say gently, were rather comments rather than questions. Often with comments of the same nature. It can be said that over the last five years we have met very often in this House, although much less often at a committee meeting, where the discussion is far more substantive, I must say where Members of the opposition struggle in one way or another, with more or less talent with their own ideas about politics, with their own fears about politics. For example, I am returning to an absolutely tedious topic of polexit. It used to be interesting, but repeating it for 5 years without any effect, without any addition, without any development, over and over again, it's not funny anymore, it's boring. A few things, however, need to be commented on. It has been mentioned here that, in fact, two politicians of Law and Justice in the European Parliament, contrary to the rules that have been in force for 50 years, have found that they cannot perform their duties, even though this is due to political and geographical distribution. This was mentioned as an argument, as it were with some kind of pride, because actually opposition politicians were also involved. I do not know if there is anything to be happy about, that good parliamentary customs, good parliamentary traditions are being violated, just because Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Prof. Zdzisław Krasnodębski have different views than several other politicians in the European Parliament. Is this really the Parliament we want? Isn't there a better example of arbitrary use of slogans such as democracy, human rights, the rule of law like this incident? An unpleasant incident which places a shadow on this term of office of the European Parliament. I remember him, too. It is good that he was reminded here, very bad that he was reminded with pride, because it was a disgraceful incident, it should not happen in any civilized parliament. There was much talk here about Poland's loneliness. I see a contradiction here, because the same groups - rightly - after a few months came to know that this budget is very good for Poland, that this budget is based on fixed prices or the current amount of over 700 billion PLN for 7 years for Poland. If we were alone, we would not be able to build a coalition for agricultural policy, which is a very strong position in this budget, for cohesion policy, which is a very strong position, for energy transformation, which was not in the European Commission's plans at all. It was only the Polish resistance to climate neutrality that caused such a fund to be created in the case of the MFF. In its entirety, this initiative is only related to the Polish voice. Not later than yesterday, I completed the consultation before the December European Council on climate with more than 10 countries. I only hear in this parliament about Polish loneliness. I don't see it in practice, and I don't think from any other capital, from any other perspective, you can't see it. This case is just here. Three Seas. It was said here that this is a very anti-EU, centered, horrible initiative. Why, then, are Germany seeking observer status in this initiative? Or do they want to join the centered anti-EU schemes? Ladies and gentlemen, these are really old problems, old topics, old rhetoric, which has already used up many times, and now it's completely meaningless. Energy. It was from the Polish initiative that legislative work was undertaken on the revision of the Gas Directive. Without the Polish initiative, Prime Minister Beata Szydło for Juncker's Commission would not have been at all. I don't know how to talk about passiveness in such an important area as energy or climate? Belarus. It was Poland that asked effectively for the European Council to react immediately to the Belarusian crisis under pandemic conditions. That's what happened. The conclusions adopted by the Council a few weeks later establish a sanctioning regime, an increasing list of sanctions, a list of personal sanctions, including against Łukaszenka, on the Polish initiative. The economic plan for Belarus, i.e. the positive side of this response - on the Polish initiative. I do not understand why you repeat things that can only be defended on social media, which crash into facts, also about this report, which you should read, and probably very rarely reached for them. But the most important thing is the budget. If we listened in 2018 - already then there was a veto on the budget - the Polish opposition, this final result could certainly not be what it is. We've been told that since we're beneficiaries of the budget, we can't disagree, we have to agree on everything. We didn't do it, we didn't listen to it, which is why the outcome of this budget march is good. The financial result is very good. I don't understand what you don't understand. The financial side of the budget is very good for Poland. One element is not agreed and is waiting to be agreed. Veto is not a value in itself. You should understand this perfectly. Veto only makes sense when it leads to a better compromise, to a better agreement. Poland needs a better agreement on this, because what we have been offered is not a good agreement. Is it so difficult to understand in a parliament that, after all, meets such situations, also in games between clubs, I think, quite often? On this occasion, there appeared, in various corners of this room, a lot of personal, party numbers. They said: Vote for us - this is a quote - in this debate. I would like to ask that at least this one case be excluded from this type of game, because this case is of a national nature, and should not be the subject of games, party and personal accounts. I treat her as a national, national, and personal matter, and I will do everything I can to make sure that she ends well for Poland and Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u360	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Andrzej Grzyb will also reply. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u361	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you for this discussion on behalf of the applicants, the Committee on European Union Affairs, which presented two draft resolutions. Thank you very much, Minister, for this conclusion, last sentence: I will do everything I can to make this successful. I think if I join this section of your statement quoted by the media... You said at the last Council meeting that conditionality is not a problem for Poland, that the rule of law is also not a Polish problem, the problem is only legal certainty. If that's the case, I think we're on the right track to get a satisfactory solution. And it's up to you and the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. But on the other hand, you were kind to say that some of the speeches are incomprehensible. I'm going back to my speech on behalf of the club. This shows that this House deserves that these debates on European policy and its various aspects should take place here, not only in the European Union's Committee on Affairs. The lack of these debates also leads to a lack of understanding of what are the important elements, which are important priorities from the Polish point of view, whether it concerns staff policy, whether it concerns new initiatives - non-legislative initiatives, because if they are legislative, they return to this House in one way or another, while if they are non-legislative, prognostic, new, they concern new ideas... Well, for example. the future of the Union. The conference on this matter is scheduled, only COVID stopped it. Shouldn't this matter be discussed in the High House? I think so. The High Chamber, the Polish Sejm, the Polish Senate deserve to discuss this in a public discussion, so that we can be sure how we present it at the European Council that we have the support of this political Chamber, not just the government base. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u362	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm immediately proceed to the second reading of both draft resolutions. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed to the second reading of both draft resolutions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolutions? There it is. Me. I propose that the Sejm listen to the two-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in a joint discussion. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Rosati spoke on behalf of the club, as I understand it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u363	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to make amendments to the draft committee resolutions tabled by Mr Grzyb. The amendments consist in proposing that the Sejm of the Republic of Poland should not receive information from the Council of Ministers about the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the field of both Finnish and Croatian Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u364	Thank you very much. Has any of the other ladies and gentlemen come forward? There are no calls. In that case, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, amendments were tabled to both draft resolutions tabled, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on these drafts following the delivery to the Members of the table of amendments tabled. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Government Departments Act and some other laws, print No. 740. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposals. Objection. Objection to what? As far as driving goes... What's the offer? Okay, I take it four minutes? Five. No, four minutes, right? Good. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws (prints Nos 738 and 740). I ask Mr Konrad Frysztak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u365	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, the Law on Departments was rejected. That's the committee's proposal. Why? The answer is very simple. Firstly, the committee does not agree that the Undersecretaries of State should earn nearly 22 000 in a time of crisis. zł. You can't afford to give raises at a time when others are losing their jobs. That's the first thing. Second thing, Minister Dworczyk was missing the truth on this platform. It's not true that nothing changes on the Legislative Board, it's a lie. For 20 people who have so far been able to work in the Legislative Council and have been paid on a flat-rate basis, today this limit does not function, will not function and, moreover, six times the basic amount will be the remuneration of those who will work there, and additionally for opinions and analyses they will be able to charge a flat-rate amount of twice that basic amount. This is crazy. But this government that you're formally reducing, you really want to shove someplace, you want to let these people earn money. The Commission has weighed it, and that is why it does not agree to it. The vote sounded 18 to 14, so the Commission recommends rejecting this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u366	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that it would hear four minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm on a report requesting rejection of a draft law shall be held without the right to submit amendments and proposals. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Piotr Kalet will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u367	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In relation to the statements made by my previous speaker, the fact that we are working in such circumstances and not in others, when technical measures, too, may fail should also be said to be the case. The committee therefore expressed its views by 18 votes to 14 against this draft resolution. Nevertheless, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice maintains a positive opinion on this law because it cannot be different on a good case. We work under certain conditions, we work in difficult conditions and the Law on Departments is also a law that meets the aim of improving the functioning of the Polish government, in order also to specifically indicate the responsibility of individual persons who are members of this government, for which they will be responsible and for what they will do. Therefore, I would not like to extend, I would not like to use the five minutes that your Marshal, as a result of consensus with the opposition, has allocated to us for the performance of the club. I would like to declare to the High House that the Law and Justice Club fully supports this bill, while at the same time declaring amendments which will be legislative and precise. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill submitted. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u368	Thank you, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Tomasz Szymański. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u369	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! How can you talk about serious treatment of the High House when yesterday at 3 p.m. 14.15 here is such a comprehensive project that amends dozens of laws, which introduce several hundred amendments and in which these most important things are hidden from the public with premeditated intent. Today, Minister Dworczyk, who is not here now, did not stutter, speaking of obvious, substantive records regulating matters of hunting, hunting, forestry, the center of government analysis, he did not say anything about the fact that you again want to bring out a lot of money - citizens' money. You want to cause... The most important thing for you are stools and wages, that's just reprehensible. At that time, when the money is taken from entrepreneurs, doctors, teachers, more and more social groups, people who have nothing to live for, you, with complete premeditatedness, quietly, slowly, slowly make a drop that will make the Undersecretaries of State earn 21,000. Ba, they're gonna have some other jobs. Whose money? Of course. Moreover, they will not have to account for these jobs because they will not have to show the register of benefits. The Legislative Council, which Mr Frysztak mentioned. Of course, Mr. Dworczyk, who isn't here again, so he can't be referred to either, said that nothing is changing. It is essentially changing, ladies and gentlemen, because in the 2010 regulation the Council actually operated, had up to 20 people and was supposed to have a flat-rate salary, and now such a person in the amount we do not know what, a large and extensive advice, will earn 14,000. monthly and additionally for each opinion, for each contribution within the work of this Legislative Board, he will receive 4 000. Ladies and gentlemen, this is just hypocrisy. I understand that we should accept with full awareness that you rule, take responsibility for how the ministries are supposed to work, how the Government Legislation Center is supposed to function, so that we understand it, but if you have not even said a word to Minister Dworczyk that you are trying to smuggle a record that is supposed to result in an increased remuneration again, that is, the possibility for your people to grab themselves with public funds, we say decisively no, there is no way that in a pandemic age, in a time of this far-reaching crisis that is projecting on most of society, to make such numbers. Ladies and gentlemen! You lost that vote in the first approach, you gathered a bunch of Undersecretaries of State, a bunch of people, and with the first rejection, you lost that vote grimly. I would not drop this, Mr President, on the issue of the inability to handle tablets, because we are already dealing perfectly with this as Members who work remotely, but it is gross that we will have a committee in a moment, because you have lost the vote again, and in a moment you will be throwing us back in so that we will have to process this project again in committee. You have lost the vote, just as you have lost the vote on the COVID Act, which since 3 November after the President's signature you have not put into legal order, thus taking money for bread, for life, for the functioning of many social groups in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! In the eyes of the state, the standards of parliamentarianism are overturned, but so is the rule of Law and Justice, which has no parliamentary practice at all, the rules of reading in the Sejm, simply playing draft laws in the committee, just to be on theirs. It doesn't matter what the cost, no matter what the money, as long as the money's right. So that, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that also during the sitting of this committee, which is just ahead of us, we will be working in substance on this bill and we will show your hypocrisy, because all you want is money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u370	Thank you very much. Does Mr Frysztak want three more minutes? Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, No, thank you. Not anymore. Thank you. In that case, Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This morning, I tried to ask your marshals kindly to refer the bill we have in the High House to the committee of substance, not only to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, because this law contains 60 changes in Polish laws, and I would even say more: in some laws it brings revolutionary changes - and that must be said to the Polish people and Poles. This law on supervision of financing and control of Polish sport, both youth sport, amateur sport and professional sport, brings revolutionary changes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, by virtue of this law, which is very gently called: on the amendment of the law on government departments, an institution is set up, which will from now on be the supervision of Polish sport. Namely, it is the National Sports Centre. I ask: Marshal, who did you consult with when it comes to Polish sports unions when it comes to the Polish Olympic Committee when it comes to Polish sports clubs, this kind of change? Such a change should not be made abruptly. And I would like to ask: Why is it so that Law and Justice is once again moving the case concerning Polish sports and Polish athletes? I would like to ask: Why was it that Prime Minister Beata Szydło added tourism to the sport because she said it would be beautiful. A year ago, PiS separated tourism from sport, remained sport itself, and now is eliminating. Not only did he eliminate the Ministry of Sports, it's still eliminating the supervision of sports at the moment. I would like, in the case of the scale of the changes which are simply here, to kindly ask the marshal that this law be addressed to the committee which would take a position on this matter, not just to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to say that during the work today in the committee without discussion there was a motion to reject this law, a law that was actually prepared quickly, because, first of all, looking at this law, we got it 2 days ago, secondly, there is no consultation in this law, no even an analysis of the Sejm Analysis Office. We have always had the opportunity, just right away, let's say, to vote and to proceed with the bill, without any public consultation. At the moment we get among others. various kinds of comments, but it is difficult to process it today, because the state has decided to liquidate six resorts, but looking at the arrangement of the eras, they have not been changed at all. The law firm of the Prime Minister is growing like Byzantium - 22 positions against 16, which was on 5 October. Additional remuneration for Undersecretaries of State who are to be civil servants. During his speech in the morning, the Minister spoke about the possibility of being only one Secretary of State in the Ministry, but when we look at some resorts, there are two, three or even four secretaries in these resorts. Much of the parliamentarians are hiding in the ministries today. This is simply the division of spoils, and the state of this law is simply sanctioning what, say, you have done. You create two new offices, actually turning the Ministry of Sport into, say, the central office in which these erki remain. As has been said, perhaps ministers will be presidents (the bell) and vice presidents. We will therefore vote against this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u374	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u375	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Government representatives! Once again today, I have the honour to present my position on the government draft law on the departments of government administration from the sejm printing concluded under No. 738. I wanted to express a lot of doubts, which also sounded earlier, as I mentioned just now. If the State had not actually used regulation manoeuvres, this law could have been discussed in a normal manner. You wouldn't have to do that on the so-called. pneumonia, but there are some things you could discuss calmly. If there were clear wording and clear content resulting from this law, it would probably not have to be done again. But, ladies and gentlemen, if it is understandable that as a result of the reconstruction of the government there has been a reduction in the number of ministries from 20 to 14, it is also known that some competence had to be changed and certain powers assigned to newly established ministries were assigned. It's understandable. It is also understandable that many changes had to be made in the various other laws which are related to the Government Departments Act. On the other hand, many further questions are raised, which have already been raised here by my previous speakers, and concern, among others, the speed of decision making, which will result from the assignment to the new ministries. Will the costs of government administration really be reduced by setting up undersecretaries and assigning them to the civil service corps? Will it not be true that there will be redundancies of staff in offices, in ministries which will result from a change of competence, in assignment to other ministries? And many other doubts that arise. If this discussion were genuinely honest, broad and substantive, and the records were clearly formulated and were the result of many clear and clear wordings, this would indeed not be the case. Therefore, as I said at the very beginning, we maintain our doubts. The discussion will probably continue at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz was to take the floor on behalf of the Confederacy Circle, but I do not see it. I understand you're still... Then let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. Ms Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u377	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we've been investigating a draft around budget law, where the general freezing of salaries, the Social Benefits Fund, the prizes for the budget sphere, for teachers... And all of a sudden, we're about to have some quick legislation. Fast legislation is always when the project is opaque, when the PiS has a lot to hide from Members and the public. That's the project. I ask: What will the salary of the members of the Legislative Board be? They'll increase by 50% or 150%. ? What are the earnings of the Undersecretaries of State? How much longer are they gonna go up? Tell me what they are now and how it is in the project. I very much regret that Minister Dworczyk hid it from the Members, hid it from the Sejm, saying that nothing has changed. How can you be so insolent? [[♪ The bell ♪]] a way of proceding the bill? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u378	Thank you. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u379	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm used to the fact that the Law and Justice government is already making strange constructions just to keep themselves in power, but above all, to share the french. But I'm not used to the fact that the office of Minister of Sport is being de facto liquidated. And since January 1st, according to this project, the Minister of Sport will be no other than the President of the National Sports Centre. Only Prime Minister Gliński will be a pen that will sign everything that will be directed to his desk at the request of the National Sports Centre. That's how it's supposed to be. You're moving the constitutional minister's powers into the hands of a commercial law company. This is some kind of farce. That's why I'm asking, how much does the president of the National Sports Center have to make? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u381	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Right, 'cause we don't get it. You are talking about restricting the state administration, removing the positions of ministers, vice-ministers, and here it turns out that the National Sports Centre is either a situation where the Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński is unable to cope, or you are building additional son-ecures as president, vice-president, and of course there must be a Undersecretary of State who oversees all of this. The question is, how much does this cost for the Ministry of Sport, the liquidation of the Ministry of Sport and the establishment of a national centre? How much will the president make, and how much will the vice president of the National Sports Centre make? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Daniel Milewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u383	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! They are concerned about the information coming from opposition politicians regarding some changes in the functioning of the Legislative Council. My question to the government is whether it is true, and is it not a coincidence that we are now simply typing into the law what was previously in the regulations, in the regulations, and that is, since 1998, later in the years to come, perhaps largely before 2015, the Regulation itself from 2010. Is it so that this change is actually happening, or has it simply been sanctioned at the level of the law's level of remuneration, which has already been applied, only that it is based on the provisions of regulations within the framework of the law of the President of the Council of Ministers or regulations? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u384	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Pomaska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u385	Thank you very much, Marshal. I wanted to ask the rapporteur whether it is true what Mr Milewski just said, whether it is so that this law is merely to sanction certain arrangements in the regulations, to sanction - I think you have admitted it - the lawlessness that prevailed in the times of the PiS. Or is it like this - and let's call it straight - that this bill is really regulating the jump of friends from PiS to money? Isn't it that this bill is really designed to provide work for those who have been officially expelled from the government and unofficially who have simply changed their names? And isn't it that there won't be any savings in the budget in connection with this bill? Isn't it so that, in connection with this law, in fact in a hidden way, the budgetary costs of the government administration once again, I will repeat: once again, in the last five years, will they increase? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u386	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u387	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! I would like to ask you ministers if you can count. I have here an example of the new Ministry of Culture and Sport. Turns out there's a need for a National Sports Centre. Explain to me why you call such a sports center and why there are extra people here. Thus, the law on administrative departments has one transparent information for citizens: there will be more posts and it will cost citizens more, because you are dealing with non-financial, not sick, hospitals, ventilators, just your functions and filling additional posts. In this example, it is clear that you are really not talking about slimming the resorts, but about expanding them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are all still interested in the salary of the Undersecretaries and State Secretaries that you are introducing under these arrangements. Citizens should know that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice once again moves from corner to corner the case of Polish sportsmen and Polish athletes. It has not been a few months since the Prime Minister connected the Ministry of Sport with the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, as he claimed, for the sake of Polish sport. I have the following question: What is the reason for this juggling about Polish sports? According to Polish athletes, it shows total disregard for them by the parliamentary majority. [[Applause]] Next line. I have this question: What sports associations and associations did the Ministry consult with? And the third thing, perhaps the most important: On what basis did the Prime Minister, having no power of attorney in the act, appoint a representative for the creation of the National Sports Centre? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo! What kind of salary does the attorney have?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u390	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the President of the Government Legislation Centre, Mr Krzysztof Szczucki, to answer these questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u391	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to answer those few questions you asked about the law that is being discussed in the context of the second reading. As regards the salaries of the members of the Legislative Council, because they arouse a lot of emotions among your Members, they do not change by 1 gr or 1 PLN, please. That's not true. The multipliers of the basic amount on the basis of which the remuneration of the members of the Legislative Board is currently calculated shall be transferred from the order of the head of the law of the President of the Council of Ministers to the law of the same amount as they were specified in that order. That's not true. Plus, you want to pay for... As regards the remuneration of the Undersecretaries of State after their transfer to the Civil Service Corps, we are not at the moment able to say how much these earnings will be, as they will only be determined. But you're pointing the indicator. The statutory regulation does not mention the earnings of Undersecretaries of State. That's not true. I would like to add that the Undersecretaries of State in connection with the transfer to the Civil Service Corps will be obliged to accept all the restrictions that involve working in the Civil Service Corps, including the resignation from political activity, the resignation from the Councillor's mandate. But an extra salary... But how much are they gonna make? As regards the office of the Minister of Sport, the Minister responsible for physical culture, I ask you to note that part of the competence remains in the competence of the Minister responsible for physical culture and part of the tasks are transferred to the scope of the National Sport Centre, together with the staff and the ministry's property. Here is not created a new office ex nihilo, but is created on the basis of what already works. The National Sports Centre will not be any company, because here such a password came up, it will be the central office of government administration, so it is absolutely no company, a company of commercial law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] How much will the president make?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u392	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Konrad Frysztak, will also answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u393	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, as rapporteur, I must correct the words of my predecessor, the Head of the Government Legislative Centre. I read from the justification: this regulation has been given a statutory nature, as well as the provisions setting the maximum remuneration for participation in a meeting of the Legislative Council, which must not exceed - attention - six times the basic amount for members of the Civil Service Corps. I'd like to inform you that this is going to be over $12,000. You continue to write that for opinions and expertise and other publications which are subject to copyright, which are subject to its protection on the basis of separate provisions defining the right to diet, reimbursement of costs, etc.. Twice. ...is twice the base amount, or an additional 4,000. for each document produced. Ladies and gentlemen, heist for money, sontekura for those who didn't fit in the government. This does not, of course, apply to former Deputy Prime Minister Emilevich and Minister of Agriculture, Mr Ardanowski. As for what the young secretary said on Mrs Pomaska's question - yes, I have the impression that here in fact this law also brings to light various kinds of documents which had already allowed such draining of the state budget. I would like to stress once again: Poland cannot afford, in a time of crisis after the outbreak of COVID, to raise wages for Undersecretaries of State. And as for the words of my predecessor, who said that this was not true - I would like to point out that in this document you have entered, Mr President, that the Undersecretary of State will earn eight times the basic amount, that is the remuneration of the higher civil service corps, plus an additional double the base amount as a functional supplement. In total, it amounts to over 21 thousand. zł. By comparison, today it's 11 600. Which brings me to my 10 up. Mrs. Marshal! Like I said, the committee is asking for the whole of this scumbag to be rejected. Thank you. [[Applause]] But who's telling the truth?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u394	Thank you, sir. However, I would like to draw your attention to the inappropriateness of the wording used in relation to the Member. [[Applause]] Bravo! Regardless of age, all parliamentarians have the same rights. I'll correct it. Please do not use such terms, however, because... Your marshal, it wasn't a bad thing. I respect young people who are successful. Mr President, youth can be an asset. Thank you. I'm an example of that myself. Mr Tomasz Szymański, from the Civic Coalition, asks for the floor to be corrected. But, sir, just a moment. I don't think your name was mentioned. I'll correct it. I was an envoy who gave an opinion on behalf of the club... Good. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u395	Mrs. Marshal! I'll just have a minute. Either you didn't understand, or you didn't read, or you just didn't want the public and the High House to know the fact. Because no one here denies the fact that the provisions concerning the Legislative Council and remuneration are functioning and, as Mr Milewski said, have a sort of historical past. But you will agree with me that so far it has been yes or even so, the members of the Legislative Council earn money on a lump sum for attending meetings, of course additionally receive diets, accommodations, but also within this lump sum there is money for opinions. Of course I do. And now we have the situation that the members of the Legislative Council will receive six lump sums of 2031 and additionally may have and will have money for opinions, conferences, analyses, studies, etc. So it's clearly written here that it's extra money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u396	You have abused this mode, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke with a formal application, yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u397	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm really on a formal issue. There's two conflicting information here. One is that the Undersecretaries of State are going to make 21,000 and the other is 11. But it's a formal conclusion. I refuse to vote on the bill when it is not explained what the truth is. It's impossible that there's conflicting information here that can't be explained. But, sir... I demand that before the vote, we determine what the real salary is. Well, it can't be like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u398	This is not a formal conclusion. This is a formal conclusion. Isn't that a formal conclusion? In the correction procedure, I understand Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. But, sir, don't abuse the mode either, because you haven't been exchanged.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u399	Mrs. Marshal! I'm gonna cut it short. Or the minister doesn't understand our question and my... I am clearly asking the Minister what the remuneration of the President and Vice President of the National Sports Centre will be. We are asking this question for the second time and we have no information from the Minister. How do we vote on this bill? You are not prepared to report this bill at all. We've been debating this all morning. I'm asking you to tell me clearly how much the president and vice president of the National Cultural Centre will earn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u400	And Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska, also in correction. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u401	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I'd like to ask for an explanation, too. I asked the rapporteur a question, is it true that we are actually raising salaries in this law... Exactly. ...and is it true that this bill is intended to serve as a means for the colleagues who have been expelled from the government to return to this government in other positions and with a different remuneration. That's not true. I therefore demand an explanation, and I expect the Minister to come out and say or confess his mistake and confess the lie he gave from this speaker. We have to settle this. We have a rapporteur who represents the High House and committee, and we have a minister who seems to have missed the truth. We cannot vote unless this is settled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u402	Thank you very much. The rapporteur, right? There was a question, yes. Good. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u403	Thank you. I will repeat this once again: the salary multiplier for the Undersecretaries of State will be six times the basic amount, sorry, eight times the basic salary of the Civil Service Corps plus twice the basic amount for the functional allowance. It's going to be over $21,000 in total. zł. As I said, today it is 11 600 or 11 700 PLN. I think that's the answer to your question. As for whether this is the place for the guys who didn't fit in the government, I think the absent Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński should answer this question. [[Applause]] But the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u404	The discussion is closed. But a minute, answers... No, no, no. Excuse me. For the vote... I didn't get an answer to... Okay, then you'll get it in writing. Please answer the remaining questions in writing. We will proceed to the vote on the committee's motion to reject the bill after a three-minute break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 min 47 hours 20 min 51]] I'm reopening the session. We'll check the quorum before joining the next point. I therefore ask all Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. 425 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. We continue to consider item 13. of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on the Departments of Government Administration and some other laws. The Commission requests that the draft law in print No 738 be rejected. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for review. With a formal proposal from Mr Jan Szopiński, Lewis. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u405	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I kindly ask your marshal to decide that the High House should take a two-minute break, and at that time your marshal would like to make the following point. Namely, by law, which we are voting on at the moment, a law called: on the departments of government administration, we appoint the National Sports Centre. The Prime Minister has already appointed a representative of this National Sports Centre. I therefore have a question: On the basis of which document the Prime Minister has appointed a representative for the European Union. establishing a National Sports Centre? That's line one. And line two. I kindly ask you, Marshal, to be the marshal of this attorney-in-chief. The creation of the National Sports Centre invited us to a committee meeting because we would like to ask this representative a few questions at the committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u406	Thank you, sir. Of course, this was not a formal conclusion. That's what you might possibly be asking at a committee meeting if this project goes to committee. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the committee's motion to reject the draft law in print No 738 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Ladies and gentlemen, we have one vote. You know, at first, it's always like this at startup. Ladies and gentlemen, there are voices on the screen all the time. Do you want me to deprive, perhaps, your Members of the right to vote? Don't argue, there's no reason. Your marshal, it's over. We're gonna have to cancel or we're gonna lose. Is that what happened? 444 Members voted. 212 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the application and thus, in accordance with Article. Article 46 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, he sent this draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for review. We'll proceed with the examination of point 8... Wait a minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u407	Your Marshal Charzasty stopped the police and beat him up. I wanted to talk to you about that. Mr. Marshal Czarzasty was just beaten by the police. Mr... This has happened now, Your Marshal, so I am telling the High House that the police have used force against the Vice-Marshal and the MPs. Mr. Marshal Czarzasty has just been detained. I wanted the High House to be aware of this here and now. I'd like to request a recess, Your Marshal, for you to react right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u408	Okay, sir. Sir, take it easy. We'll proceed with point eight of order... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm on my way, sir. I'm leaving. Calm down. I'm gonna pass this on to another marshal, okay? What's going on in the streets, Marshal... Mrs... Prime Minister Kaczyński, this is happening on the streets right now... We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Teacher Charter and some other laws (prints Nos 679 and 730). A cop violated my physical integrity, broke my I.D. He knew I was an envoy. He knew I was intervening because you're keeping young people on the street. You set your emotions on fire in the middle of a pandemic. You're responsible for the police. What did you do with Warsaw today? The Seym is a great fortress. Go out and tell me what you're doing. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee. Look, it's a Members' ID. This is unbelievable. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Disgraceful! Disgraceful! I'm calling a 10-minute break. Scandal! Scandal! Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u409	First, please take off these SS lightnings. [[Applause]] That's first of all, and second of all, all the demonstrations you've supported and in which you continue to... Put the mask on. We're not by name, ma'am. Well, all these demonstrations have cost many lives. Mask! Mask! You have blood on your hands. You're breaking art. 165. [[Applause]] I repeat: you should not be in this House. You committed a crime. Some Members chant: You will sit down! You're going to jail! You're going to jail! I'm calling a 10-minute break. If there is a rule of law in Poland, many of you will be seated. This is the president of your government. In wartime, a coward, and now a hero. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 09 hours 21 min 19]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u410	I'm reopening the session. We proceed to item 8 of the agenda... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Your marshal, with a formal motion. There have been formal requests, Your Marshal. There have been formal requests. I didn't get any information. Where's Voladek? Well, in the meantime, it is the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act - the Teacher Charter and some other laws, print Nos 679 and 730. Your marshal, something's happened. He's gonna read it and there's gonna be conclusions. Do we have those conclusions? With a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski. You're welcome. What's the Commie gonna say?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u411	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When the police in the Polish country violate the integrity of Members, when the Marshal of the Sejm beats, when in the Sejm it is done with the permission of the Deputy Prime Minister for Security Affairs, when we hear from this speaker that Members will sit, as the rule of law will be in Poland... Who was screaming? You're the ones who screamed. Conclusion. ...we must be honest with ourselves: it is not only a violation of democratic standards, but it is a criminal threat to people who are fighting for democracy, freedom and dignity. [[Applause]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In a democratic state, the police are... Formal proposal, Mr. President. Your marshal, in a democratic state, we're all here to respect each other. But when you send, you PiS, the police... (PL) Mr President, I would like to make a formal request. ...in protesters and MPs, that can't be allowed. I am making a formal request to complete the agenda - to take a break, collect the Senior Convention - for information about the Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, Deputy Prime Minister for so-called cases. safety, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally tell us what it's like because you want to hit us, not listen. And that's not gonna happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u412	Thank you, sir. I understand that Mrs Barbara Nowack also has a formal proposal? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u413	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal request for adjournment. It's amazing what's going on. Oh, my God! The deputy prime minister of the government comes out on the stand and insults the opposition. These are accusations for which the Civic Coalition will apply to the prosecution because we will not be offended and we have no blood on our hands. But, Madame, a formal proposal. There's blood on the hands of a man who's been responsible for the chaos for the last 10 years. Mrs... Your marshal, there's blood on the streets... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Madame, I am so sorry. You wanted to file a formal application, didn't you? It folds. Madame, I would like to ask for an approach. Then stop yelling at us... [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] ...maybe you'll finally hear it. Please make a formal request. Formal motion for a recess, adjournment and appearance of a cowardly deputy prime minister who let the police go to the public. [[Applause]] The honourable Member is offended. Mrs... And the information that he's gonna be... Okay, you filed a formal application. ...proposal to the Public Coalition Attorney's office... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u414	Thank you, Madame, you have made a formal request for a break, another one. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk with a formal proposal. You're welcome, sir. But I ask that this be a formal proposal, not another insult to the Members of the High House. It was Prime Minister Kaczyński who insulted me. Who's keeping an eye on the order?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u415	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the Coalition Poland club, a club which is sitting in the middle of this room for a reason, I would like to support this proposal, which President Gawkowski, President of the Left Club, submitted, for a break, so that these emotions, Mrs Marshal, will be exhausted until the case is cleared up. No doubt it really happened today, if this is true, it was unbelievable. If the Vice Marshal of the Polish Sejm, one of the key politicians of the left, who was there to ease the situation, not to escalate the conflict, was beaten, then really, your Marshal, you need to give yourself time to calm it down. Calm down. Sit down. We're working. And I would very much ask you to accept this motion, which was made by the club representing Mr. Marshal Charzasty. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u416	Thank you very much. Formal conclusion, Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u417	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to point out that the situation is quite unusual not only because there has been a violation of the immunity of the Carnal Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, your colleague, but also because of the words that came from this speaker addressed to the Members of the opposition. I know that in the courtroom we scream at each other things, it's Parliament's law... That's how to insult the president. ...then there are other words spoken from this sacred place, which is the Seym's platform. From this holy place, this center of democracy and dialogue... You don't lie from here. ...we heard the words of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government, who directly threatened to arrest the opposition. All those events that happened... It's a formal conclusion, okay? The fairy tales. ...requires clarification, therefore the conclusions that have been made here - and I fully support the proposal... Talk to the mike! ...the Left Club - they're just an absolute necessity. Your marshal must order this break. These aren't clichés. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. And you can make it your own decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u418	The formal applications have been submitted, and the marshal has been handed over to you. She may decide to convene the Senior Convention. In the meantime, I would like to ask the High House to calm down and continue its deliberations. The Prime Minister, please. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Teacher Charter and some other laws (prints Nos 679 and 730). Your marshal, but something important has happened. I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee... Ladies and gentlemen, I just saw a smiling Marshal of Charity. He was going to the club. The marshal came back here. There's a marshal. He's here now. But now he's back. He's not beaten up, so stop making it up. Excuse me, five minutes off. Shouldn't we start making up correspondence? [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 min. 25 hours 21 min 28]] I'm reopening the session. High Izbo! I just had a conversation with the Marshal of Sejm Elizabeth Witek, who explains the situation at the moment. Let's adjourn. Once it has been explained, you will be informed. And right now, please... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We'll have to adjourn until then. Please, Mr... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I know you'd like to sit down all the time, but let's respect our constituents and vote. The voters want us to work. It's a break until this case is cleared up. I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to present a report to the committee. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I have informed the honourable Members that your marshal is explaining the situation. After clarification, you will receive full information. We'll wait. You can wait and we will continue. We'll wait. Please leave this place. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mrs Teresa Wargock presents the report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u419	Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, No, your marshal. Mr... You're welcome, my fellow Member. Marshal, we're gonna need a break. To explain the situation. We asked for a recess, Your Marshal, to talk to you. Your applications have been handed over to the marshal. Your marshal explains the matter, we proceed. But you may adjourn at this time of session. We can conduct our deliberations, and you will be informed. Applications have been made. Your Marshal... Mr... Can I have a minute with a formal motion? I understand that all clubs can, only the Confederation can't, because they're equal and equally equal in this Seym. Madame, I would like to ask you to present a report to the committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth... [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please stop your emotions. They're equal and equal. The platform can, and the others can't. ...and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy... [[Game in the O.R.]] Marshal, we will stand. We will not tolerate such behavior. ...about the government bill amending the Act - Teacher Card... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] This is your culture. This is an outrage! ...and some other laws, Seym printing No. 679. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for its first reading on 16 October 2020. Commissions: Education, Science and Youth and the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, following first reading and general discussion, and after considering the proposed changes and after voting on the amendments, considered this draft... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You're standing back to the woman. ...at its meeting on 3 November. The high committees are bringing in... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Who are you? Calm down. ...for the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law from print no. 730. [[Game in the O.R.]] Tablet. According to Art. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, the committees shall submit at the request of the applicant one request from a minority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u420	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Tomasz Zieliński will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. Marshal, will I be able to file a formal motion?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u421	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present my position on the Government's draft law amending the Act - the Teacher Charter and some other laws, print Nos 679 and 730. The planned amendment of the Act - The Teacher's Charter focuses on changes in the rules governing the disciplinary responsibility of teachers. These are changes expected by the educational environment. And here it is commendable to the Minister that they were widely discussed during the work of the Education Professional Status Team and during the meetings held with the Chairs of the Disciplinary Boards and the Disciplinary Advocates at these committees. The proposed amendments relate to the extension from 3 to 14 days of the period during which the Director informs the disciplinary officer of the suspicion that the teacher has committed an offence affecting the rights and welfare of the child. At the same time, it was specified that the Director does not need to notify the Ombudsman if the circumstances indicate that no such action has taken place. Both changes were requested by school heads who had very little time to identify the situation and conduct an internal investigation. New time limits have been introduced for the submission of a request for disciplinary action and changes have been made in the period during which disciplinary action may be initiated. The provisions of the Teacher's Charter requiring the suspension of a teacher or a school principal in any event if criminal proceedings have been initiated or a request has been made for disciplinary action in the event of suspicion of an offence affecting the rights and welfare of the child. As a result of the proposed changes, no suspension will be necessary if the disciplinary officer, taking into account the seriousness of the charges, asks for disciplinary punishment, reprimanded with a warning. The amendment of the Teacher's Charter allows funding from the funds to support the professional improvement of teachers in additional forms of improving the skills of artistic and teaching institutions in schools and artistic institutions. Amendments to the Education Act allow the Director of the Central Examination Board to order the Director of the Regional Examination Board to introduce analyses and carry out diagnostic tests and tests on external examinations. It was certainly possible to publish the examination tasks in the oral part of the Polish exam, the language of the national minority, the language of the ethnic minority and the regional language. The principles of assessing the classification and promotion of audiences in the second-grade sector and the post-secondary school are harmonised to the principles of evaluation in adult schools. The Ministry of National Education has been able to arrange the legal ambiguities that exist, to instruct the Institute of Educational Research in Warsaw in the field of education and education, namely research, analysis, expertise, and to provide the Institute with funding for these tasks from the Ministry's budget in the form of grants. As part of the amendments proposed in the Act - Educational law among others. The Minister has been given the opportunity to carry out promotion activities in schools and institutions of good practice in the field of innovative or experimental activities. This is particularly important because promoting all innovations, pedagogical experiments can not only promote them, but also encourage schools and institutions to implement them, especially when their results and effects are very beneficial for the student and for the school. Changes have been made regarding the supervision of teaching schools and artistic institutions. It is proposed to carry out optional studies on the quality of artistic education in schools and artistic institutions by a special surveillance body set up by the Minister responsible for the administration. culture and protection of national heritage. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, taking the above into account, will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u422	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Ms Krystyna Shumilas. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is outrageous that in a situation where people are protesting on the street, the State of the Sejm makes an insurmountable fortress. Members are being beaten on the street, and here in Parliament Members are offended, [[Applause]] He's scaring them with prison. And we're here to debate the Teacher's Charter... But, Member, let's get to the point. ...to raise young people. What example do you set for young people, students, students, teachers? What kind of example? What democratic state do you want to teach these young people about? What rules do you want to show them? Don't yell. Are such rules as Minister Czarnek has, who ordered on the first day of his office that the education curatoria should report on teachers, students, students? Minister Czarnek, who threatened the rectors with taking the grants. Minister Czarnek, who insults people, segregates people, offends women. This is the minister who has prepared the documents which present to the High House a law on disciplinary proceedings against teachers. You want to close your mouths to teachers. You want to use this law to fight teachers thinking differently than the ruling party, to fight teachers who have the courage to criticize the wrong solutions, to fight teachers who are on the side of discriminated students, to fight teachers who have the courage to talk to students about difficult matters, about differences and tolerance, about respect for another person regardless of his beliefs, appearance and orientation. The broad definition you put in this bill... Minister Piontkowski took over this bill from Minister Zalewska, prepared this solution, and now you support Minister Czarnek. And we see what's happening. We see what happens in Polish schools, we see how Minister Czarnek scares teachers, students and students. Minister Czarnek says that he had to report to the teachers because he received information from outraged parents who reportedly sent to the Minister of SMS, called on a private phone, sent information to mailboxes. But I don't want to make those texts public. Why? I suppose these texts weren't at all a fantasy of the Minister. Yeah, right. You know, I've checked how many reports the Silesian Education Office has collected and how many have been sent to the MEN. Do you know how much? Three. Three words. And do you know that two of these reports were reports from the Messengers of Law and Justice? From Mrs Dziuk and Mrs Kloc. You guys are so pathetic. These are your people, your people are texting the minister. It's your people who send these e-mails because it's your people, the politicians who don't like that school wants to be free. [[Applause]] That teachers, students have the right to protest that they think differently than you do. Are these the parents? PiS messengers? Neither Minister Czarnek nor you listen to your parents, because parents mostly supported the students and supported the teachers. Because it was in Polish villages and towns that people protested. Young people protested, and their parents agreed to it. You guys can't accept that people have a different opinion than you do. If the Minister had really listened to his students and his parents, he would have stood up with his teachers and his students, protested and defended their freedom. But Minister Czarnek prefers to stand on the manifestation of the ONR. Minister Czarnek says that teachers are vulgar, but did not disturb him in 2017, when participants of the march on which he was as a voivode shouted: (The bell) once with a sickle, once with a hammer or: and on trees instead of leaves they will hang... I'm not gonna finish 'cause we're here in the Seym. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister Czarnek has not said a word... Thank you very much, Member. Time's up. ...he didn't say a word... [[Applause]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u424	Mrs Dziemianowicz-Bąk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome. Your Marshal, the Left has left because they are unable to work in such an atmosphere. Uh-huh. In that case, I understand that on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Dariusz Klimczak. Your marshal, and after that point, will I be able to file a formal motion? You're welcome. There's no envoy? Thank you. He made a statement in writing. In that case, Mr Robert Winnicki, a member of the Confederation. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, I understand, yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are currently dealing with an attack on a minister who offends his actions of politically correct people. Whether we like his actions or not, that's another pair of galoshes. It is true, however, that they are completely different from what we are accustomed to. The truth is what we see in universities, what we see among some teachers, a lot of teachers, that's the advantage. so-called. political correctness, which is simply a new Marxism, a leninism. I'm maintaining this thesis with all my responsibility. Instead of the way it was behind the communes... Because I lived in communion times, I remember those times. The leading role of the working class was not to be questioned. If someone wanted to show that the worker was lazy, it wasn't allowed to show that the worker was lazy because the worker belonged to the leading class. Similarly today there are classes that are sacred classes, especially disabled people, feminists, all LGBTQZ and other such environments. If a man tries to attack it, it is immediately attacked by these environments. We have such a situation that there is terror in universities - at least some - of them humanistic. A man who tries to say something against political correctness is attacked with fury. This is a global phenomenon. I recall how Professor Larry Summers, Nobel laureate in economics, Rector of Stanford University, said that women are less suitable for scientific work. And that's how the hat came to be that the poor guy had to give up the function of the rector. Even though it's completely obvious, and that's just the way it is. Because it wouldn't be otherwise if someone asked why basketball players were tall and said they weren't fit to play basketball. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Unfortunately, this is the situation at the moment and Minister Czarnek is trying to counter it, perhaps by offending some. In this case, and I am very strongly attacking the PiS - worldview and behavior I will defend these behaviors, because this political correctness must be destroyed. We must destroy, because this is the construction of a new communism, a new socialism, as you wish, based on the excluded classes of those there... The principle of overthrowing the system is that you have to gather all the dissatisfied and overthrow the system. And you're all trying to overthrow the system, not that you're talking about laws. A typical symptom of this attitude: I read why children should belong to parents when parents often beat them. Yes, children must belong to their parents, because even if some parents beat their children, if they control their parents, their parents will stop taking good care of their children because they will not feel that they are their children. For the sake of a thousand children, 10 million children are sacrificed. But the purpose of these people is not at all the welfare of this thousand children, but the purpose is to destroy the family. The goal is not to make it so that there's a family father, the truth, the mother, and that these people are taking care of their children. The child belongs to you. I'm just giving a typical example of this reasoning... correct. I repeat, if we don't go back to normal, that the children belong to the parents, that the parents are to decide what they're learning, that they won't be the children. People stopped having babies. Why have kids if it's not me who decides what they're learning, it's not me who decides if they're getting vaccinated, it's not me who decides what school they're going to, what's the program of this school where they teach me something that I hate at school. Why should a man have children? People stopped having children. Not because there's no money. It's the poor people who always had kids. You're saying that people, women don't have children because they don't have money. It's always the poor who had children. Yes or no? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The poor always had children, not the rich. As a result of this thesis, society dies. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u426	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Kulesza with a formal proposal. You're welcome. Do you know what this bill is about? I didn't argue with...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u427	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to make a formal request for a break and to call the Sejm Bureau to discuss the situation, this chaos that has taken place not only on Polish streets, but also here in this Chamber. And this chaos is because they're equal and equal. I would like Jarosław Kaczyński, Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, to be excluded from the session until the end of the Sejm, just as Grzegorz Braun was excluded from the proceedings, for not having a mask on this speaker. Neither did Jarosław Kaczyński's mask. No one noticed him. No one's asked him to be disbarred, no one's cut his mic off. Marshal Czarzasty used his power, excluding the microphone from Grzegorz Braun, so that he could not even refer to it, and then someone else used the power and now the Marshal Czarzasty is crying that he was beaten. That's what happens when you abuse power. Are they equal and equal in this Seym? Are there any rules? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal asked me to follow her order, and I demand it... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u428	Good. Thank you, sir. You filed a request for a break and a call for a Convention or a Bureau. These applications have already been submitted. As I have already informed the High House, your marshal is familiar with the situation. As soon as he meets her, he will present to the High House, probably calling the Senior Convention. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. There's no envoy. Ms Urszula Augustyn, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u429	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ms Krystyna Szumilas spoke about the example coming from above. That's right, that's an example coming from upstairs. And what an example, an educational example, is given by the Minister of Education to all his subordinates, it is very easy to observe, looking at what he has been doing since he took over his authority. The first thing he did was fire a clerk who was responsible for the curriculum. It's as if he didn't know that a clerk in the ministry was doing nothing but the minister's orders. That's first of all. And second of all, what did he do? Today we are debating his first law, and his first law concerns disciplinarys. A man who has been punished with the supreme punishment of the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union, a reprimand, for his outrageous and very unwise statements. What kind of example comes from upstairs? Question to the Minister: What will you tell the kindergarten teachers today, the teachers of special centres, all those teachers who are in front of their children every day at the COVID (The Bell) and have to listen to such nonsense, and yet you threaten them with discipline? Thank you. They should be there for their kids.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u430	Thank you. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u431	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is an extremely sad day for Polish parliamentarianism. On the one hand, this Sejm is surrounded by a barricade consisting of police and military police, which protects one man and gives him comfort. Appearance. We are here to be as close as possible to the citizens as possible, not to separate ourselves from them by police cordons. The same used police assaulted the Vice Marshal of the Sejm. That's not what we're talking about right now. Mrs Wielichowska has been pushed and her ID is broken. Literally. What is this example for young people? What is this example for teachers? Is this supposed to be a PiS lesson in citizenship? Is that how you understand the Polish state? Is that how you understand education? What example do we set for young people? No wonder they go out on the streets and scream exactly what they're screaming about this power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u432	I'm glad you approve. It was actually very educational. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u433	One day. On this day, the police led by the Deputy Prime Minister for Security beat Members. On that day, the Deputy Prime Minister for Security is threatening to put them in jail. We also have the same day Mr. Czarnek is punished with reprimand for the contents... You're the ones who screamed. ...homophobic by the ethics committee of the Polish Sejm. And you're talking about discipline? I wanted to point out that this means one thing. If you let the police go to the MPs, if the Deputy Prime Minister threatens the Members of the opposition with prison, what do you want to do to the teachers? Do you want teachers to be punished for being ideological, for hating everyone else who isn't like you... You guys are ideological. ...that you're homophobes, misogynists, people who hate women? You want to punish teachers for all this? [[Game in the O.R.]] You have no right to do that. You have no right because you're breaking the law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u434	Just like you don't have the right. To offend us, my fellow Member. Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Why not like PiS and not like homosexuals? Because you're a PiS by choice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u435	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm taking the time to ask you a question, but I should actually give it up. Today, scandalous events have taken place that are shadowing this House and the rule of law and justice. But if I'm performing, it's because I promised the Horse people that I wouldn't leave this case. On October 29, in the first general high school in Horses, students were expelled from their lessons for using the symbol of women's strike. They had this symbol in their private accounts - otherwise they couldn't connect to the school. It was a disenfranchised right to education in connection with private views. It's a violation of the law and an unacceptable practice. From the current Minister of Education, we know that this is in fact a new line of action for the party. Gentlemen and ladies of the PiS! Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't win the war against the youth. You'll be compromised in their eyes. I can tell you right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u436	Thank you very much, sir. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u437	Mrs. Marshal! The Civic Coalition called for this debate to be postponed due to events on the streets and because of the atmosphere prevailing in the Sejm. It is not possible to seriously process laws that affect life and the future of the profession, e.g. Teachers, in such an atmosphere, when the Deputy Prime Minister comes out and threatens the opposition with prison because he likes it so much. You screamed it first. We're not vice prime ministers for security. When the police beats Members and Vice-Marshal of the Sejm and violates the card of Mrs Wielichowska. Young people and teachers deserve a serious debate. Marshal, we asked for a recess. Young people and teachers got a minister who despises them, who doesn't like them and doesn't understand them. If this is to be the case in this House, then do not be surprised that the law and the kind of Poland made by PiS, young people do not want to respect. They see what a charade you're making out of the law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u438	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u439	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no way to ignore what happened today. He was beaten, the Vice Marshal of the Sejm was hit. A messenger who... I mean, he was sitting here on the bench. Calm down. You'll be able to speak up. The messenger who participated in the protests was also beaten up by the police. It's your permission to do it, it's your permission to do it. It was your permission that led to the fact that protesters in an absolutely peaceful manner young people are treated worse by the police than criminals. That is your permission and your deputy prime minister for security. This is absolutely outrageous. It was you who yelled: this is war. This is also the result of the fact that you are destroying other areas of the country. You've ruined your education, and now you're going to lead her completely to fall. You've ruined young people's chances of a good future. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this your plan for future generations of Poles and Poles? Think about what you're doing. You're the ones who yelled. This is war, isn't it? That is very right, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u440	Thank you very much. Don't yell. Mrs Magdalena Łośko, remotely, the Civic Coalition. Do we have a call? [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u441	Yes, I am. Hello? You're welcome, my fellow Member. Good morning. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The record contained in the bill, which speaks of acts that violate the rights and welfare of the child, is very vague, which can lead to many abuses. This is confirmed by the statements of the current Minister of Education, who threatens teachers with disciplinary responsibility, among others. For defending women's rights. Teachers and teachers are already being called before disciplinary committees for their courage to express their views as full citizens. The introduction of this imprecise provision may lead to the detection, intimidation, punishment and removal by profession of those who do not share the views of the Minister. I therefore ask: Will the Ministry take into account the proposals to define this concept, namely to clarify the definition of an act that violates the rights and interests of the child? Let me just add that the lawyers of the Sejm Analysis Office also point to this problem of interpretation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u442	Thank you very much, Member. That was the first substantive question. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. We asked you, Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm shocked that the Deputy Minister is with us. I wish there was a new minister I wanted to ask. Is it a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, that at a time when such things happen on Polish streets, protests, young people go out on the streets, teachers come out, amendments are made to the Teacher's Charter, which is to discipline teachers? Discipline is to be the responsibility of the disciplinary spokesman appointed by the voivode, i.e. political broadcasting. It is to be based, ladies and gentlemen, on the fact that a teacher may be deprived of his right to pursue his profession. Is it a coincidence that at the moment when students are expelled from lessons for having a sign of protest between women - this happened in V LO and XXIII LO in Lublin - a disciplinary act is introduced [[♪ The bell ♪]] teachers who, if they do not adapt, will be denied the right to pursue their profession... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u444	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u445	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Students of the Jagiellonian University gathered nearly 90,000. signatures under the petition for the cancellation of Minister Czarnek, accusing him of threatening his students with the removal of grants, accusing him of threatening teachers, students and students participating in strikes, 90,000. signatures are more than Minister Czarnek received in the parliamentary elections. If we had a referendum today, you would see that all those who protested on the streets would have signed an appeal for the cancellation of Minister Czarnek. Because it can't be that the Minister of Education and Science directs the complaint to the rector against the academic teacher... Thank you very much. ...for the fact that he was on strike, that the minister himself... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] And those who didn't protest would sign for the Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u446	Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u447	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Your proposal on disciplinary committees for teachers lacks clarification on the definition of an act that violates the rights and welfare of the child. We pointed this out several times during the committee meeting. After Mr Czarnek's outrage, I am very concerned that this provision will be used against violating the freedom of teachers to express their views. Minister Czarnek threatens teachers, from education curatoria he makes political police, sending letters to curatoria asking for information about the participation of students or teachers in demonstrations. In the world, you usually want to discipline teachers with the help of the curatoria so that they behave according to the political model that suits you. We return, of course, to the PRL of the school, where the schools and teachers had no autonomy and were from it (the bell) to use the commands of the state apparatus. Thank you. [[Applause]] It was a youth academic relationship...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u448	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. There isn't. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The level of this substantive discussion is so high that the Minister will probably find it difficult to answer, [[Applause]] But I'm gonna try to ask you a few questions about merology. One question... Helping. I would like to say such a thing that the discussion at the committee meeting was good, substantive, factual and devoid of the emotions that are today. We asked for a break. However, I would like to say that these changes that we are currently looking at are a step towards the expectations of the educational environment, and this is a major step in the most important issues. Of course, the law talks about a wider spectrum of changes, while what the teaching community expected were changes on the discipline of teachers. I think the Minister can remind you that the spokesperson of discipline is not an invention of this law, but much earlier. I want to ask the Minister if there is a chance to shorten the entire cycle of disciplinary proceedings, because there are some problems with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u450	Good. Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u451	Thank you. Your marshal, something happened, but something happened. I witnessed Mrs Wielichowska's police break her ID. We all saw on the footage that the Vice Marshal of the Sejm was hit. I was a witness, I intervened in the case of Mrs. Martina, who was detained in her fourth month of pregnancy and held by the police for a good few dozen minutes and for nothing our requests to let them go. They're not the police. They're bandits. Don't insult the police. Mr. President. No decent cop would raise his hand on women. No decent cop would... Mr. President. ...even under your dictation he wouldn't lift up... and hit the Vice Marshal of the Sejm. You are destroying the institutions of the democratic state and we demand clarification on this matter. Today, your marshal. Today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u452	Mr President, I have already said that your marshal explains the matter, but that is really no reason to insult the police. Who insulted the police? State police. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. Here you go, one last question. There isn't? There isn't. In that case, the list of MEPs was exhausted. Mr Dariusz Piontkowski, Minister of State at the Ministry of National Education, will answer the questions raised in the High Chamber. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u453	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, in this bill, the term "minister Czarnek" does not appear once, contrary to what you suggested from this speaker. Secondly, I have the impression that, as in the discussions at the committee meeting, you either have not read the bill or have deliberately lied about the content which is included in the bill. As the honourable Member mentioned, in this law, a passage which concerns disciplinary proceedings is rather a relief of these proceedings, rather than a tightening of them, so the state, when it says that it is a law that is supposed to discipline teachers, is simply lying. You are simply once again misrepresenting reality, trying to lie to Poles with repeated lies, according to the Goebbels method. Mr Czarnek, in his public statements, makes his views quite clear about... Very bright. ...the functioning of society and education, but it has the right to do so, just as the state has the right to have its views. But that's no reason to insult him. As I understand it, the state is trying to create a new society that will destroy the existing order, the traditional family and the traditional society. And it is society that has the right to defend itself against such a social revolution. And Minister Czarnek clearly and precisely says that he wants to defend this traditional society. This law responds at least in part to the demands of teachers. Here I would like to thank you for pointing this out. And contrary to what you're trying to suggest, this bill has been prepared or prepared for several months. It's not. So, as someone put it, the first law of Minister Czarnek, only a law that has been prepared in the Ministry for a long time. It is the result of dialogue, among others. with a teaching environment, but also trade unions. These passages, which refer to disciplinary proceedings, just shorten this procedure so that it does not take many years, as unfortunately it has happened that there are clear procedures, so that the Director is not forced to submit an application to the Disciplinary Officer within just three days, only that he has 14 days to process the application which affects him - that is a clear implementation of the demands of trade unions and teachers. However, this incident law does not address the issue of disciplinary proceedings as a whole and a much broader revision is needed. But there are also content that regulates several other important issues, such as the functioning of the Integrated Education Platform available at e-handbooks. en. And things need to be normalized so that we can pass on data from the Educational Information System, for example, so that each teacher can use the instruments available on this platform and the materials that are there. It is also an opportunity to publish questions for the oral examination of the Polish language, languages of national minorities, which will take place in the new formula from 2023. Without this bill, students who are already thinking about the next exam will simply not know these questions and should be determined. The state refers here to the welfare of the child, to the concept which has been operating in Poland for almost several decades. There's not even a word in this bill about it. We don't make that term. This is a term which also functions in the family code, and the courts apply it, clearly saying that a closed catalogue of acts cannot be created that would violate the rights or the welfare of the child. None of you, in the course of the discussion, either during the committee meeting or today, at the Sejm, even tried to define the rights and welfare of the child, because you know very well that this is very difficult. You're trying to cheat Poles today in the Parliament Hall, just like in the committee. You're misrepresenting the content of the words that occur here. You're acting a little bit like the communists -- you're using dialectics and you're trying to overthink the meaning of words, to overthink their true meaning. You have... Your propaganda won't work. Most Poles understand what is said to them, and your attempt to lie about reality will not work. Are you talking about yourself? Are you talking about yourself? You're talking about yourself. This is an incidental act, but the law that teachers are waiting for, a law that also allows to reform several important elements of the functioning of the system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] education, and it's worth just accepting. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u454	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws (print No 720). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u455	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. It's a technical project, but very expected by entrepreneurs. It simplifies the rules for the supply of aviation fuels, marine fuels and LPG exempt from excise duty due to their intended use. This is carried out on the basis of an electronic delivery document, using an electronic system for handling movements of excise goods. The project also provides for the introduction of an electronic Central Register of Excise Entities, which will replace 44 paper excise registers, currently maintained by the heads of tax offices competent in excise matters. The introduction of a central register will provide timely information on excise entities to both tax authorities and traders and facilitate the verification of operators involved in the supply of excise goods. In order to ensure the monitoring of all types of supply of excise goods exempt from excise duty and taxed at zero excise duty on account of their intended use, the project also provides for the monitoring in the EMCS PL2 system of supplies exempt from excise duty of coal products carried out by certain intermediate coal operators, the supply of imported excise goods exempt from excise duty on account of their destination and excise goods taxed at zero excise duty on account of their destination from the place of import to the person who imported those products and, finally, supplies exported and exported outside the customs territory of the European Union by the national customs and treasury office of excise goods taxed at zero excise duty on account of their destination. It is also proposed to extend until 31 January 2022 the period during which the supply of excise goods exempt from excise duty and taxed at zero excise duty may be carried out. not only on the basis of an electronic e-DD but also on the basis of the paperwork used so far. The purpose of the extension of this period is so that entrepreneurs affected by the epidemic, mainly airlines, can bear the costs of adapting their IT systems to the changes made only in 2021. The assumptions made in the central register, of course, require appropriate changes to the Tax Order and the Tax Tax Tax Act - changes that this project also provides for. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the above, I kindly ask the High House to refer this proposal to further parliamentary work. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u456	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be spoken by Mr Zdzisław Sispier. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u457	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The law that we are going to process today, and whose first reading takes place at this meeting, is a specific law. The procedure for tax legislation always begins with the first reading of the plenary session. This law can be defined with a few very concrete wordings. It is a bill that is expected, ordering and facilitating the functioning of economic operators, in particular through provisions that make it clear that e.g. Some previously adopted solutions, which were to be in force or continue to be in force, can be extended for some time. Entrepreneurs will continue to be able to report in different versions, including electronic, specific, dedicated and paper versions. First of all, it is about simplifying the rules relating to this tax, matters relating to a specific market, because not everyone knows about it, it is about the market concerning aviation fuels, shipping fuels, LPG gases, etc. These are specific things that should be well described in the law. That's exactly what this bill says. In order to implement these points, it is necessary to amend the laws, in particular the excise duty law, where several legal provisions are amended. They are, just as the Minister said, to regulate, to improve, and to facilitate activities in this market. The Law and Justice Club, of course, supports the draft law submitted to the full extent and to the full extent and will, of course, support this law in further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u458	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Jaros will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u459	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club regarding print No 720, i.e. the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. This draft law essentially introduces seven amendments. Maybe I'll quote them. The first amendment is to simplify the use of the EMCS PL2 system, in particular as regards the supply of excise-free aviation fuel and LPG, which will be carried out on the basis of an electronic delivery document. The second is the monitoring through the EMCS PL2 system of supplies exempt from excise duty of coal products made by intermediate coal operators which in the previous calendar year sold more than 30 million kg of coal products, as well as movements of imported excise goods exempt from excise duty due to their use and excise goods taxed at zero excise duty. The third basic amendment is the introduction of a single register of excise agents kept by the designated authority, i.e. the central electronic registration of operators in excise duty, in place of the existing local registers kept by the tax heads responsible for excise duties. The fourth amendment is the introduction of mandatory registration of non-business entities which have not yet been registered, including public benefit entities, local government units, military organisational units, Border Guards, Police and the possibility of electronic registration for non-business natural persons using LPG for fuel purposes since 1 February 2021. The fifth major change is the regulation of monitoring rules using the EMCS PL2 system for the transport of energy products by pipeline on the basis of an electronic delivery document. The sixth amendment concerns, of course, also the electronic delivery document, the possibility of changing the means of transport of products moved on the basis of this document using the EMCS PL2 system mentioned above. The seventh amendment is an indication of the constant density for aviation fuels for excise purposes and the fuel levy on these products. And here I would like to stop, Marshal, because at this stage this project, of course, cleans things up, clarifies. This is not entirely expected, because such clarification always means complex law, with this draft law being largely expected by entrepreneurs, by companies that have accepted these changes in the course of debate or public consultation. Some of the proposals have been taken into account, for which the Ministry can of course be thanked. It is a pity that, in other projects, such as the double taxation of limited companies, certain issues have not been taken into account and these consultations have been much shorter. We do not protest this bill, we want to work on it, and we hope that this project will not be amended, no additional provisions will be introduced, there will be no further attempt to confuse these excise regulations, the introduction of additional charges, taxes. I think this is simply not going to be part of this bill, and I hope that neither the Ministry nor any of the parliamentary clubs foresee this. As I said, this is, of course, a project that clarifies certain issues, and if this is expected by entrepreneurs, it is difficult to disagree with that. At this stage, as I mentioned, your esteemed marshal, Mr. Marshal, Minister, High Izbo, we will not oppose this bill, we want to work on it within the Committee on Public Finance. I hope that in this respect it will be finally accepted by the committee and by the High House after work in the Polish Sejm and later - in the Senate. So that we recommend further work on this bill. Thank you very much to the marshal for the opportunity to speak and for the recommendation of the Civic Coalition. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u460	Thank you very much. Ms Anita Sowińska, the Left Club, has the floor now. The Member doesn't have one. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. I'm here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u461	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland on the proposed amendment, of which many words have already been made by the previous speakers and in the introduction by the Minister, so I will not duplicate and discuss the elements which form part of this amendment. On the other hand, Minister, I will appreciate the direction set out in this law, because today, as little as we need legislative solutions that meet the expectations of entrepreneurs, they will simplify the rules that you create for doing business. It is a pity that such a thought appears after six months, a time difficult for many entrepreneurs connected with the epidemic, but this is the logic which today must be followed by the Polish state, its fiscal services, precisely towards entrepreneurs. Today there is a need as little support as possible, not to treat them as potential criminals, on a very limited basis of trust - today you need to trust entrepreneurs, to meet them. Like the previous speaker, we also appreciate this, and I say it quite responsibly that this project, as well as good, solid legislation requires, has received a reliable consultation. That, too, is what this is all about, and I think that we will all be grateful in this House every time if these projects are subject to such consultations, it is extremely important. I think that from the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 you can count on support when it comes to work on this project, but we warn against one thing not to use this work - maybe this warning is less addressed to the minister, to the state representing the resort, and more to the representatives of the United Right Club - this fact to some vague amendments introduced during the legislative work. If this is the direction that is adopted in the original submission, then I think there is a chance to build quite strong support around it over these, sometimes very deep political divisions. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u462	Thank you very much. Now Mr Jakub Kulesz, near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u463	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law deals with a number of issues relating to excise duty and indeed some of the topics on which the Ministry leaned deserve more attention, and perhaps even praise, all depends on how it comes out in the laundry. Many times entrepreneurs have drawn my attention to problems with the system of registration of excise goods, fees. I hope that thanks to this new bill all the problems, at least most of them, will disappear. The project itself also raises a number of issues aimed at the so-called. sealing in the area of excise duty, tax sealing, sealing in a sector which is very leaky, and this is simply due to the amount of tax, excise duty and the fact that these areas are heavily regulated, licensed. This is where the grey zone is most often developed, because this is the most cost-effective. The State has adopted the method of greater restrictions, greater difficulties in carrying out business activities related to excise duty, including higher penalties, not more than twice, but five times the national average for certain offences or offences. I am also pointing to another example of the fight against the grey zone, namely this example has already proven itself in practice in Poland in 2004, under the rule of Leszek Miller, anything to say can be commended. This is the reduction of excise duty on alcohol in line with the Laffer curve model, which has increased excise revenue because the grey zone has decreased, and perhaps this direction of reducing the tax burden will be better than tightening the regulatory screw. That's a small remark. I also have some concern, and I do not accuse you of any bad intentions, of course, but I always have a lot of mistrust for the public finance department, regardless of who is in charge in Poland, because, as Alexis de Tocqueville said, there is no such wickedness that would not otherwise be done by a gentle and liberal government if it ran out of money. And since that money's gone, we all know, and I'm afraid... We have reviewed this law: apart from these increases in penalties, difficulties, rather new taxes or tax increases, there is no tax increase, but I wonder if, by chance, somebody at the committee meeting tomorrow morning will add a new tax increase to the tax in such a way that they will pass unnoticed. I will therefore appear at the committee meeting and be vigilant, and I will make sure that no new increases in taxes or new taxes appear in the form of amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u464	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u465	Mr. Marshal! As my predecessor rightly said, you have to work on the bill because it has quite a lot of good qualities. However, I would draw attention to one thing, namely the law on this subject was already passed a few years ago and the authors of this law assured that this is the best, best solution. And now the bill's the best, too. Two years from now, it's not the best thing to do, and it's gonna have to be improved. Well, unfortunately, the worst thing about taxes is their change. It's like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, And that's a loss. People have to adapt to all of this, convert cars from diesel to gas, gas to gasoline, depending on what you do higher excise duties on. You manipulate it, you want to do the best you can, but the effect is horrible, because it's the extra costs you don't see, because people pay for these car modifications. I'm setting an example here. I don't think the plane's working for gasoline yet, but the cars are. I remember King Nicholas I's throne speech, which he didn't give himself because he didn't want to appear in Warsaw for the coronation, but he said that tax matter is very difficult and important and that's why we're going to watch it carefully for a year and after a year we're going to issue tax law that will never be changed again. Since the creation of the Third Republic of Poland, taxes have been changed probably more than 500 times, if I remember. And that's what shows the difference in tax treatment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u466	Thank you very much. Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time - 1 minute. As the first Mr Dariusz Rosati. There's no envoy. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. She's not here either. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u467	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have one question, very - I would say - short. Well, I wanted to ask you if the Ministry is considering a certain modification of the excise policy for transport companies. In this difficult situation of transport companies - on the one hand, pandemic problems, on the other hand, the difficult competitive situation in Europe's markets - does the ministry see the possibility of reducing or returning at least part of the excise duty paid by transport companies in fuel? This would certainly help these companies maintain their position in markets across Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u468	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba. Your envoy isn't here. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u469	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! A brief, detailed question for the Minister. Unofficially, there are voices that may change the system itself or the way messages are sent to EMCS to be more user-friendly. Is there any chance of that? Is there any work going on in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u470	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Jaros, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u471	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have a brief question to the Ministry, to the Minister, to his co-workers and co-workers: Do you have any further changes in this bill? Do you see anything at this stage that you would like to add to this bill? If so, I would simply ask, Minister, for an answer, because it depends on how we will respond to this bill in the future. At this stage, as I said in the club speech, we support this bill. On the other hand, I wonder if the Ministry is planning, and also the club of the governing party is planning any changes to this bill. I would very much ask you to answer that question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u472	Thank you very much. That concludes the discussion. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Jan Sarnowski, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u473	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Ministry of Finance is not planning to change the notification system. As regards the amendments to the current project, the Ministry of Finance is not planning to submit any amendments, [[Applause]] Whereas there are amendments which may arise from Members who the Ministry of Finance can accept positively. We heard here that a question was consulted with us regarding the extension of the excise exemption for hybrid cars. This kind of release ends at the end of this year. The Ministry of Finance may agree to this solution. In the case of excise duty on fuel for the transport industry, we would like to answer this question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u474	Thank you very much, Minister, and keep your distance. We proceed to item 10 of the agenda... Oh, I'm sorry, I still have to finish this story. I am, of course, closing the discussion. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law amending the excise duty law and certain other laws, contained in print No 720, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and the Act - Bank law (print No. 718). And again I will ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to the High House a draft law amending the law on taxation on goods and services and the law - Bank law. The amendments introduced by this project simplify and clarify VAT rules. The first key element of this package is a project called Slim VAT. It's an acronym created from the words "simple local and modern." So it's a simple-to-use tax tailored to the local specificities of the country in which it operates. It is also a modern tax, where the implementation of further technological solutions is linked to the reduction of taxpayers' obligations. What exactly does that mean? A characteristic feature of the Polish economy is the expanded sector of small and medium-sized enterprises. These are companies that account for VAT by their own means. We want to gradually remove as many formalities from their path as possible, so that the time they spend on settlements is getting shorter. With the progressive digitalisation of taxpayers' accounts and the digitalisation of administrations, many obligations on taxpayers are no longer necessary. For this reason, the Ministry of Finance has started a permanent audit of VAT solutions in view of the problems they cause in everyday application. The audit shall be permanent. We want the Ministry to present a new law that simplifies VAT rules and removes excessive and cumbersome responsibilities from companies on a regular basis every six months. Today I am pleased to present to you the first package of simplifications developed with the market. It was created in the form of a workshop, as a result of meetings with the business. We addressed the requests that were most common, those that dealt with activities that were a real nightmare for entrepreneurs. They are difficult to automate and require manual and time-consuming handling. What exactly is in the package? Simplifications in invoicing, export, exchange rate calculation and other fields. I'm just gonna name a few. Firstly, we will facilitate and speed up the settlement between companies. The taxable person giving the discount will no longer have to watch whether he has received an invoice confirmation by his contractor or not. The exporters will also benefit. The time to send the goods to a contractor outside the European Union without negative consequences for VAT will increase three times, in particular, from 2 to 6 months after receipt of the advance. In addition, if the trader has agreed to pay in a foreign currency, he will not have to calculate its rate on a different basis for income taxes and VAT. He'll be able to do it once for both taxes. At the end of the month the current deadline for VAT settlement of invoices was extended - from 3 to 4 months. Ladies and gentlemen! All these tools will be a great burden for companies. It will reduce the amount of time spent on settlements and thus less will be errors, risks and the need to correct settlements. And all this means a significant saving of time for entrepreneurs. The other changes are precise and sealing, clarify and seal certain VAT structures. They mainly concern tax free and binding joint information. Changes in tax free are the introduction of an electronic system for registration and circulation of documents in the VAT refund procedure for travellers. For the entrepreneur this means reducing the number of paper documents, automating processes by introducing online cash registers, speeding up and simplifying the refund of travel tax. For the state budget, this means sealing the collection of tax. These solutions will reduce the export of goods using tax free documents through tax clauses. They will also facilitate tax controls on sellers. Changes in binding joint information include: favourable to taxpayers to extend the protection associated with binding relief information for goods identified in VAT according to PKWiU. We also introduce a restriction on the protection of binding joint information, above all a time limit. They will only be able to be used for 5 years. The solutions proposed in the draft law in the first few years will reduce the revenue of the public finance sector by about PLN 160.165 million per year. In presenting the above, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the draft law as proposed by the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u476	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Wiesław Janczyk on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u477	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the club Law and Justice with regard to the government draft law amending the VAT Act, but also the law - Bank law. My previous speaker, the Minister, has listed all the detailed changes here very precisely. This is not a very comprehensive document if we look back at government proposals on changes in law in this area, especially VAT, but probably expected by the segment of businesses that generate revenue - it may not be the main source of revenue, but sometimes so - from the sales of products that come out of our country, but also from outside the European Union. The preparation of this document should improve their settlement, speed up VAT reimbursement for those concerned. I welcome the fact that here we are dealing with such synergy of previously implemented legislation on tax vehicles such as the laws that introduced SENT systems, STIR, everything that has allowed revenue to rise to the state budget and is working effectively so far. I'll just add one more thing. Bank law is also changing to the extent that traders will be able to fulfil their obligations vis-à-vis customs authorities from the VAT account. I think these are favorable, good solutions. Thank you for preparing them. The Law and Justice Club supports this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u479	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition on the government proposal for a law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and the Bank Law, contained in print No. 718. Ladies and gentlemen! The reason for this submission states that the purpose of this amendment to the Act on VAT on goods and services is to introduce solutions in three areas. These are solutions, first of all, in terms of simplifying the tax treatment of goods and services by taxpayers - so-called. the VAT Slim package, second, of a more precise and complementary nature, thirdly, as regards the refund of travel tax - TAX FREE system. Of course, any change to the tax law, which leads to the facilitation of tax settlement by entrepreneurs, is accepted by us. That is why I would like to stress at first that there are solutions in the government proposal that we agree with and we will support, although with some reservations, which I will speak about in a moment. Among these solutions we find, for example, an extension of the deadline for deduction of input VAT, the possibility for VAT to apply the rates applicable to income tax or the need to obtain proof of receipt of corrective invoices in minus. As a general rule, changes aimed at introducing the electronic circulation of TAX FREE documents are an obvious consequence of the development of information systems initiated by the government of PO-PSL and deserve further work. However, despite the fact that the project has positive changes, at the same time, as it is customary to present the government, these are changes which cause partial controversy. First of all, it's an amendment to the article. 29a paragraph. 13 laws. The government has proposed to amend the condition for confirming receipt of an invoice amending the obligation to agree with the counterparty on the conditions for the reduction of the tax base. Already at the consultation stage, business organisations indicated that this provision would not only eliminate the bureaucratic burden, but could even increase it. It also gives officials a wide scope for discretion, i.e. it does not guarantee the entrepreneur certainty of the application of the law. We estimate that this provision, in this way formulated, is rather part of the consistent building of an official's advantage over an entrepreneur, and this is the wrong direction. Similarly, the introduction in Article can be assessed. 42ha 5-year period for binding joint information. Apart from the fact that this is contrary to Article. 14 Entrepreneur's rights, as also mentioned by the Entrepreneur's Advocate, which pointed out that this provision provides that the body does not depart from the established practice of resolving cases in the same factual and legal situation without reasonable reason, in addition, it deprives taxpayers of the solution introduced only in 2019, i.e. you are withdrawing from the change that has recently been introduced. It is worth remembering that according to the article. 42ha paragraph. 1 of the WIS law expires by law in the event of a change of tax law, so in our view this is a significant overregulation. It is similar with the revised article. 31a, which provides the basis for the convergence of exchange rates [[Applause]] for VAT and income taxes, but really a horse with a row of those who convincingly justify why an entrepreneur will have to apply uniform odds for at least 24 months and not a day less. And the last remark about raising the limit for small gifts from 10 to 20 PLN. Dear Minister, this is an apparent change. Ha, ha, ha! It does not eliminate the basic handicap, that is, the duality of accounting. If we were talking about actual simplification, it would only be the elimination of this dualism while increasing the limit for small-value gifts of some kind, I would say, a reasonable, market-based amount. Of course, there are also doubts about the deadlines for implementation. Whether companies or banks e.g. They'll make it in time - there's doubt here. Finally, let me make these two general remarks. Firstly, I appreciate this, and it is good that the Ministry of Finance acknowledges that de facto technological progress in tax settlement is a key element that decided to seal VAT. Here we should remind you that this started with the introduction of JPK by the PO-PSL government. It's a good thing you're developing this, but on the other hand, why all the propaganda lies about seals? Secondly, I would like to remind you that in August it turned out that the high officials of this government, among others. from the Ministry of Finance, but also the D.A.'s office, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ministers, they went on foreign missions and recovered illegal VAT... Thank you very much, sir. ...as part of TAX FREE, so we treat it as an element... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left Club, will now speak. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk... Is it? Oh, remotely, you're welcome. I'm sorry, but it's late and we have time to follow. Last sentence. Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left Club, remotely. You're welcome. I request that the project be transferred to the Committee on Public Finance for further processing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u480	You're welcome, of course. We haven't got a call yet. This is Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u481	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Several reflections on the side of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 regarding the first reading of the government draft law on the amendment of the law on tax on goods and services and the Bank Law. I do not wish to repeat myself, but it is similar to the regulation quite thought out and consulted with the business community, with the business environment. Of course, as in any such solution you can see flaws and here also entrepreneurs pay attention to such shortcomings, but basically this is a good direction. On behalf of entrepreneurs, what would I like to say, Minister, about this project? The first reservation or first doubt concerns the shape of the Article. Article 129 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) (a) b of the law and the words readable. According to many entrepreneurs, this word is unnecessarily found there. The second question, such a very detailed one, but, I think, worthy of a resolution, concerns the reflection and change of the wording of the article. Article 127 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 and limitation of the obligation to use the Polish currency only for cash returns. The shape of the record that you have proposed is somewhat contrary to the accepted trend when it comes to non-cash transactions. That's what I'd like to draw attention to. We will see, perhaps during the work of the relevant amendments we will try to strengthen this voice of entrepreneurs even more, but on behalf of the club I would like to draw attention to this. Perhaps there has been reflection or autoreflexion on the part of the originators in relation to these two parts of the project. On the other hand, in principle, when it comes to opinions on the project, we are ready to work on it. It is good for him to go to further work, because it is worth doing such work in the interests of entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u482	Thank you, sir. Now you have a voice for Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. We're switching places with Mr. Sosnierz, and it'll be me first, then Sosnierz's friend. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As with the previous project, we see a lot of good qualities and a lot of questionable things, so that, as I understand it, there will be work on it in the committee. On the other hand, I would like to focus before my colleague Sosnierz comes, who is on the committee responsible, on one piece. Namely, I noticed that in this act you try to push export through VAT, i.e. to support export. This is related to the theory that the more the country exports, the better. That is not true. You can export anything you want and stay with a lot of money and not know what to do with it. The purpose of the export is, I just wanted to notice, import. This is putting the cart in front of the horse. The goal is, I repeat, import, and we only export to import something. So we don't confuse what's the target and what's the center. That's why we export coal to buy, let's put on TVs, not to get rid of coal. Well, export itself is not an end in itself, but, I repeat, the goal is always import. The country that imports more is better than the country that exports more. Manipulating VAT to increase exports is probably illegal in the light of European practices and, secondly, senseless. Thank you very much. And now my friend Sosnierz. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u485	In all this sea of legislative plagues that fall on Poland through our House, the law we are talking about is almost such a treat. We are introducing a few not very brave, but rather useful improvements to our additional Byzantine, but just: we are constantly changing something. Polish businessman has to spend almost 350 hours a year on tax settlement, among others. It's because he has to read what's new all the time. adopt itself in the Sejm on this subject. This is all an ad hoc mess, this is a country from a dictation, in which you constantly exchange some tritifism for a new one, to make it happen a little bit more. What we really need is to rewrite all this tax law. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, the whole political vision of our elite is limited to the fact that the Prime Minister wakes up in the morning and wonders what to tax here today because he will need money for tomorrow. There's a tax coming up, and then it's getting better, just like we're doing today with the bill passed last year. Tax law should be amended once or twice during the term of office. I get it, there's a new crew coming in, there's another vision, there's a moment, there's some details, there's a year, there's a new tax ordination, and it's in force for a few years, so people can see if it works well or if it doesn't work. Comprehensive changes are being developed once and for all, perhaps not forever, but for a long time. Why are we still working in ad hoc mode? Why is the Sejm working like some sort of legislative emergency for the government as soon as the government remembers that he just forgot something? This is no way to run a business, this is no way to work in Poland. You can't keep track of tax law. It cannot be that the entrepreneur falls asleep on Wednesday, and on Thursday he wakes up in another reality, because the Sejm passed something along the way in three readings on the 1st day. I'm appealing, a little interruption. Let's take a deeper breath, let's stop this ad hoc mess, take a step back, think about what tax law should look like in the end, not because of what's going to happen tomorrow, but because of what's going to happen for the next 10 years. Let's rewrite the tax law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u486	Six ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. The first question you ask is Paulina Hennig-Kloska. There is no Member. Mr Michael Szczerba. There's no envoy, either. Mr Dariusz Rosati. There's no envoy, either. Mr Wiesław Janczyk. The Member is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u487	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! We are talking about regulations that concern the sales market at a level of more than 4 billion. That's 611 grand. clients and 3.5 million operations. I think that regulation is very necessary, but I would like to ask the Minister to refer to whether small entities, I no longer want to talk about medium-sized ones, will deal with the transition from paper to electronic clearing and whether this will not constitute a barrier to their development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u489	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Tomorrow we will talk about this project, so we will probably discuss it more thoroughly and widely. Today, on the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister about the question of Article. 31a. This article introduces the possibility of standardising the exchange rates in the case of VAT under the Income Tax Act and provides for a time limit for the need for the trader to use it, which is 12 months. However, once this form of clearing has been abandoned, the trader will still have to use this form for a further 12 months. The fundamental question therefore arises as to the ratio of legis of such a constructed provision. Why will entrepreneurs have to use this solution in such a long period of time? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u490	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u491	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! A bit dared by my fellow Confederate colleagues to take a wider look at VAT issues, I would like to ask, on the occasion of whether the resort is planning any new regulations in terms of the deadline for VAT reimbursement. Today, at all meetings with entrepreneurs in which I participate, this problem is raised as crucial from the point of view of the situation in which we are in and concerns about liquidity. Does any action give domestic entrepreneurs the chance that VAT will normally be able to recover faster in the world. I am sorry that I am quite perfidious about this when dealing with a little bit of other issues, but today people who have sent us here to this House are living. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u492	Thank you very much. Will the Minister, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, please answer? You're welcome. Minister Jan Sarnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u493	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I will refer to the questions raised in the course of the discussion. Starting with the issue of amending invoices, I would like to say that the actual change is that now the trader will not have to wait for confirmation of the corrective invoice sent to the counterparty, but will only be able to correct the settlement if he and his counterparty have established the conditions for the correction. We wanted this to be described as general as possible in the provision of the law, so as to allow entrepreneurs the opportunity to get along and to determine on their own how they would communicate and establish a permanent relationship, we hope, the conditions of cooperation. We will confirm this with protective force for entrepreneurs in the context of tax clarification. With regard to the five-year duration of binding joint information, this is the implementation of the request of the National Tax Administration, a request which not so much takes away protective power as it limits it temporarily. Where decisions with safeguard power in relation to traders are not linked to the activities of the taxable person and his practices, but to a specific product, it is necessary to limit the time-limit for their use, taking into account technological developments and the nature of the services. This 5-year term also functions in binding tariff information and binding excise information directly linked to products and goods. As regards the issue of uniform exchange rates, the need to apply them over a longer period of time, this is also the result of a compromise reached with the National Tax Administration. This is the first attempt by the Ministry of Finance to approach exchange rate differences and how they are calculated for different taxes. What we're doing now is a pilot. The change as regards the need to maintain a given method of settlement is of a sealing nature and we hope that if the National Tax Administration does not identify the problems associated with this, for example, during the coming months of application of these rules. attempts to abuse businesses, we too will be open to abandoning, shortening or simply abandoning certain conditions regarding the application of this regulation. In the field of tax free, the question was whether the return should be made only in Polish zlotys. There is a question here about some market differences, because some entrepreneurs say that they are asking very much, and because it will make them more attractive with regard to their counterparties, customers who come to them. In turn, small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned that if we introduce this option, they will be forced by their competitors to make this service available, which will make their competitiveness worse. So we discussed this in meetings with market representatives. As the response was mixed, we did not decide to propose this solution. As regards tax free, I would add that the introduction of electronicisation should not hinder the operation of small and medium-sized enterprises. Given the difficult situation with COVID, we have only decided to introduce this regulation since 2022, so that companies have enough time to prepare for change. We will be happy to answer other questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u494	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and the Act - Bank Law, contained in print No. 718, to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on Parliamentary drafts of the Law amending the Law on Feed (Prints No. 735, 736 and 751). I ask Mr Maciej Górski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u495	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development vis-à-vis the parliamentary drafts of the Law amending the Law on Feed in prints 735 and 736. November 18th B.C. the first reading of Parliament's draft laws on printing Nos 735 and 736 concerning amendments to the Law on Feed, which consists in extending the date of entry into force of the Article, took place. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4) of the Law of 22 July 2006. It concerns the manufacture, placing on the market and use in animal nutrition of genetically modified feedingstuffs and genetically modified organisms intended for use in feedingstuffs. Both draft laws concerned an extension of the deadline. The deadline laid down in print No 735 is 1 January 2024 in print No 736 is 1 January 2025. The Commission held a joint discussion on these projects. During the committee work, two amendments were tabled to shorten the aforementioned deadlines. The first proposal concerned the extension of the memorandum by one year, the second one by 1 January 2023, i.e. by two years. As a result of the vote, 19 votes to 4 against and 5 abstentions adopted the extension deadline on 1 January 2023. The Commission proposes that the attached draft law be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u496	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements of the clubs and the circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jerzy Małecki, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition in relation to the parliamentary drafts of the laws amending the Law on Feed, Print No. 735, 736 and 751. The abovementioned projects concern the amendment of the date of entry into force of the provisions concerning the manufacture, placing on the market and use in animal nutrition of genetically modified feedingstuffs and genetically modified organisms intended for feed use. The revision in its content is short but extremely important for the entire agricultural sector. The history of this law is long and we will probably have to wait a long time for the effects of change. The Law of 22 July 2006 on Feed was amended in 2008, 2013, 2017 and 2019; it is 2020, and once again the discussion on the extension of the moratorium to ban the use of GMOs in Poland has started. If the law is not amended, Poland will be the only country in Europe where the ban on feed containing GMOs works. Maybe I'll go into history. In 2012, the then Member of Law and Justice, later Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, in strong words, said: Those who agree to the dependence of Polish meat and eggs production on GMO soy imports act against Polish farmers, against Polish consumers and against the interest of Poland. And further: By adopting the law, the Sejm supports the restriction of food sovereignty. Today, there is no alternative - and it will not be in the distant future - to feed animals with GMO feeds. Despite the 2015 electoral promises of Law and Justice and the strong position of the future Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development of 2012, there is still no proposal to replace feed protein with native protein. We have another year of rule of law and justice, once again a revision of the law has been proposed. Farmers are primarily calling for the amendment because they are fighting for the future of their farms. They also ask what the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development plans to use national sources of protein. Although the Council of Ministers adopted a multi-annual programme for 2016 and 2020 to increase the use of national feed protein for the production of high quality animal products in sustainable development conditions, the current production of protein crops is only 0.3 million t per year and the total domestic consumption is 4.25 million t per year. Since 2015, the production of legumes in Poland has been decreasing, even if rape buckwheat is included in this, it still does not allow the replacement of soy buckwheat in sufficient quantities. Soy meal is 63% of protein raw materials, and domestic protein crops are only 7%. In 2019 imports of soy buckwheat into Poland amounted to 2.5 million tons. The numbers speak for themselves. Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition for the good of Polish farmers will vote in favour of this law. We are fully aware of the consequences of rejecting the amendment to the law. We will not allow the agricultural sector to suffer enormous losses as a result of the failure of the agricultural sector to reduce and even stop animal production, to suffer losses related to the export of poultry and cattle, to reduce jobs in compound feeds, meat establishments and companies operating around these sectors. But also in view of the extension of the period allowing imports of genetically modified soybean buckwheat for Polish agriculture, we expect the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development in accordance with the amendment of the Law of 22 November 2018, where in art. 15a It is said that the Minister responsible for Agriculture is drawing up a plan for the use of national protein sources and for minimising the deficit of feed protein in animal nutrition as regards the extraction of feed protein from national sources, has settled, above all, against the environment of farmers, on the preparation and implementation of the plan contained in the Act, which, in line with the promises of the Law and Justice politicians, should have been in place for a long time. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, Mr Marshal, amends the Act on the annual report on the implementation of this plan. Coming through, Marshal. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u498	Mr Romuald Aichler, the Left Club, remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on plates]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u499	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I greet everyone present in the Chamber, and since you have been treated badly by Marshal Charzasty and other Members in the Sejm, I am resigning from my club speech on this bill and I would ask you to clarify this matter. I've seen a lot in the courtroom for a few terms, but something similar to today, and as part of the protest, I'm giving up my next speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u500	That's good news. Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u501	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think it's worth saying at first, depending on where I'm sitting, on which side of the barricade, that's what I'm saying. Here these words have already been said, ladies and gentlemen, that at the time when the Law and Justice were in a deep opposition, genetically modified plants were evil, and the words quoted today also by Minister Ardanowski. How changed it was when the ghost of certain economic processes began to rule, when the ghost of certain economic processes realized that the orthodox must not be so orthodox. Ladies and gentlemen! By Resolution No 222 of 15 December 2015, the Council of Ministers established a multi-annual programme called "Increasing the use of national feed protein for the production of high quality animal products under sustainable development conditions'. At that time the budget was about PLN 34 million. The work was to cover four areas: genetics and plant breeding, agrotechnics, animal feeding, economics and market organisation. The assumptions are very, very right. Today we'd probably ask one more time, and so what, ladies and gentlemen, is left? If we tried to squeeze it out like a sponge, we probably wouldn't have a lot of questions to answer. At the time we talked about the fact that we wanted to diversify the supply of GM soybeans with Polish protein. We would like to replace 50%, i.e. we would also like to save a lot of money that would reach the hands of Polish farmers. It was mentioned about the amount of nearly PLN 2 billion per year. Very good. Ladies and gentlemen, what are the details? Unfortunately, they've been working since then? We have, of course, introduced according to EU programmes, where 2% our national envelope is allocated to subsidies for protein crops and okay, but instead of increasing, we are decreasing the area of protein crops, because, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 it was 690 thousand. ha and in 2019 only 462 thousand. ha. And to make it even better, ladies and gentlemen, to the first 75 ha is a different surcharge, and above it is smaller. And so on. the payment to the first 75 ha is PLN 765, and if it is already above, it is already only PLN 382 and therefore few farmers benefit, is encouraged to sow these plants. During these 5 years we spent PLN 1700 million on subsidies to protein crops. So the question is, if it was for seeds, if our feed plants bought it, processed it, produced feed from it. Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I have to upset you because we don't have that kind of information. The Member said that 300,000. t we only produce, and we need more than 4 million t. Over 4 million. Over 4 million. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Polish poultry, mainly Polish poultry, Polish pig breeding is forced to base on protein, mainly derived... as the main component of protein, soy buckwheat. It's close, over 60% It's in that balance sheet right there. We've got some rape buckshots, not a lot of other protein crops. What's the situation today? The situation on the poultry market is catastrophic. I don't know if you know how much you pay for a kilo of poultry carcass today? There are already cases that I hear that this is even below 2 PLN, and profitability - 3 PLN. The fact that we didn't have this bill, ladies and gentlemen, for a few months, we were just talking about announcements. Soy cost us from 1,400 PLN to 1,900 PLN, and profitability? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Salary's down. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary club of the Polish Coalition will support this solution, although it is not the best solution, but a rational solution for Polish agriculture today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u502	Thank you. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Basically, the Polish farmer already had enough nerves this year. This year the Polish farmer had to eat enough fear by five against farmers. So if we now block the possibility of using even this soy buckshot, if we block the possibility, if we shorten it, leave it as it is, and not extend the possibility of using this buckshot, then the Polish farmer would have another problem. It would have to replace relatively effective feed with something new, and the market is not yet adapted to it, and we do not yet have the opportunity to produce something that is equally effective. So there's no big doubt here that time shift should take place. We're not gonna get in the way. We, as the Confederation, will also support this. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u504	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Jerzy Małecki on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u505	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement on the parliamentary projects amending the Law on Feed, Printing Nos 735 and 736. The projects shall include a revision of the content of the Article. 65 of the Law on Feed by replacing words: 1 January 2021, depending on the project: 2024 or 2025. Such time limits shall relate to the entry into force of the provisions of the Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4) and Article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 as regards Article. Article 15 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (4) of the Law on Feed which prohibits the production, placing on the market and use in animal nutrition in the territory of the Republic of Poland of genetically modified feedingstuffs and genetically modified organisms intended for feed use. As the designers point out, the proposed change is necessary due to the ban imposed on the need to find replacement high-protein feeds which compete qualitatively and economically with imported soybeans, which currently accounts for around 70% protein used for the production of feed in Poland. To this end, efforts have been undertaken in recent years to rebuild the protein plant market. Poland has the potential of producing legumes. In recent years, we have seen an increase in the area of crops, to which support for farmers could have contributed, among others. in the form of direct payments for the production of this plant group or changes in the rules for granting aid in the protein crops sector. These very positive signals, however... As studies have shown at present, it is not possible to replace soybean completely with national sources of plant protein in animal production. The Law and Justice Club at today's meeting of the Committee on Agriculture proposed to change the date of entry into force of the ban on 1 January 2023. This shift seems to be a reasonable solution giving the opportunity and time to change the organisation of the market in protein crops without prejudice to the production capacity and competitive position of Poland in agricultural production. In view of the above, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law tabled by the Members of Parliament with today's amendment of the PiS and advocates that this proposal be directed to further proceeding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u506	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Six Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question is asked by Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u507	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's debate is a crowning example of how powerful influences on Polish politics and the law have meat lobby and breeders. We are debating the date of entry into force of the ban on the production, placing on the market and use in animal nutrition of GMOs in Poland. We are debating a deadline which has been shifted four times since the adoption of the Law on Feed in 2006. Every time the bill looked the same as today's: one page A4 and two articles, including one moving term. And every time it's the same justification. We're not ready. We don't have a replacement. It's been 14 years since the ban was passed and we still don't have a replacement? Or is it just the industry that doesn't want a replacement? In the explanatory memorandum of the Law and Justice project, it was written that we have government programs aimed at increasing domestic production of feed without GMOs. How much money was spent on these programs? What are their effects? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Besides, I think it's time to end the industrial breeding of animals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u508	Thank you, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u509	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Those who accept the dependence of Polish meat and eggs production on the import of soy GMOs act against Polish farmers, against Polish consumers and against the interest of Poland. By adopting the law, the Sejm supports the restriction of food sovereignty. These are the words of Minister Ardanowski, who has been able to do a lot about it for years. The state in its programme, in the Law and Justice programme, in the chapter: Care for the countryside and agriculture you have explicitly stated that GMOs are not used for feed. Previously, in 2016, the Rural Pact and the Sustainable Rural Development Strategy were established. So? Nothing. The new minister isn't taking the case either. Ladies and gentlemen! Words, words, words and deeds. And Polish farmers are still doomed to soy buckwheat, which fills more than 62% of feed production components. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Words differ from actions, and it's time to change that, and I think that sooner or later the voters of the state will settle for different actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u510	Thank you, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u511	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Feed allows the extension of the memorandum to prohibit the use of GMO components for the production of feedingstuffs. This is the import of soya, which is the main protein component in feed for poultry and pigs. The Law of 22 July 2006 introduced 22 November 2018 amendments which refer to the development by the competent agricultural minister of a plan for the use of national protein sources. This plan should in particular indicate the sources of protein alternative to genetically modified protein, the possibility of increasing the share of national protein sources in feedingstuffs and the measures to be taken to reduce the import of genetically modified feed. And my question is: At what stage of implementation are these indications? Where are the details of these indications available? And please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u512	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u513	Mrs. Marshal! Director! High Izbo! I wanted to ask two simple questions, I think. Why has the Government of Law and Justice been robbing Polish farmers for 5 years of at least PLN 2 billion, which should remain in their pockets? Why do you fail to fulfil your 2015 electoral promises and the promise you made in 2006 by preparing and adopting this law? Why do you not use the knowledge of Polish scientists for which the Polish taxpayer paid? Because it has been going on for 10 years, this year it has ended, a multi-annual protein program, which was implemented by 19 scientific units, 16 breeding stations, feed plants and hundreds, as not thousands, farmers. Why do you not take advantage of what is written in this summary? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It can't be. Here it is written: Unfortunately, attempts to make significant use of national protein sources face a strong reluctance of feed companies with foreign capital associated with soy buckwheat suppliers. This is a fight for about PLN 2.5 billion a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u514	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u515	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! After a year's work in the Sejm, I find that today has occurred breakage. All parliamentary clubs - I do not know the Left's position - speak with one voice about GMOs as regards soya. This is very upbuilding. I hope that these two positions, both printing No 735 - Polish People's Party and printing No 736 - PiS, will be accepted by the Sejm. I would like to propose one more thing in this Chamber: that there be the same agreement on the issue that Polish farmers are asking about meat-and-bone meal. When do we start working on meat-and-bone meal, reducing the price of feed? This is a challenge that MEPs working in the Committee on Agriculture and generally in the Sejm should take to heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u516	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u517	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! From this point on, I would like to address one question to the Minister today. My previous speakers have given me a little heads-up, but I have a specific question. When will the Ministry of Agriculture finally introduce a programme for the use of bone meal under the Agriculture Committee of the Polish Parliament, but also, ladies and gentlemen, a Polish protein program, which would be realistic, would take into account climatic conditions, soil, traditions, real demand, so that we will stop lying to each other and decide which way we are going? If we can't afford it or we can't completely replace it, let's just say it openly and stop discussing it. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like Polish farmers to have in Polish pockets money for high-protein plants. But let's finally make it real, and not just say, say, say (the bell) and we're changing the bill again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u518	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please answer the questions raised by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Anna Gembicka. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u519	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start with these last two questions about bone meal. First of all, it should be noted that this decision remains the responsibility of the European Commission. We, of course, as the Ministry of Agriculture in working groups call for work to be speeded up. Indeed, in the European Union, the use of this protein raw material in feed production is still in force in 2001 due to the disease of crazy cows in connection with the use in animal nutrition of animal meal. The exception is an insect protein which can be used in the feeding of aquaculture animals since 2017. At the moment, the European Commission is discussing a decision to re-feed meat-and-bone meal with the exclusion of feeding the same species. It is planned to allow so-called. cross-use of processed animal proteins in pig and poultry nutrition. But as I said, it is up to the Commission to decide. We, of course, at each meeting in working groups call for work to be accelerated. We hope it will meet with a positive response. As regards Mrs Kozłowska's question, she asked about a plan on measures to make use of alternative protein sources for genetically modified soya protein in animal nutrition. This plan is available on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, but the Member also asked for a written reply, so of course we will give it all in writing as much as possible. I would also like to point out that as far as the countries of the European Union are concerned, the level of dependence on GMO feed is on average 97% in Poland, which is about 75%. , i.e. actually Poland on this background stands out positively. The analyses we have as a ministry show that the entry into force of this ban on 1 January 2021 would have a negative impact on Polish agriculture, mainly due to the limited availability and lack of price competitiveness of feed materials from legumes. The total substitution of soya protein with national legumes is also difficult to implement due to the permitted share of these feedingstuffs in the animal diet, especially in compound feed for poultry and young pigs, including. due to the excessive content of structural carbohydrates and anti-nutritional substances. It is also worth noting that these figures were given and differed by various Members. Of course, we will also provide written information on the exact amount of protein in the annual production of raw materials, because we have such data. We know well that the lack of access to genetically modified feed materials would result in repercussions related to the increase in production costs and the decrease in income. In important agricultural production sectors, the crisis in poultry could result in a decrease in the production of exports of poultry live and the bankruptcy of parts of farms. In the production of pig live, the ban on the use of GMO feed could make the profitability and efficiency of production in Poland worse. Ladies and gentlemen! There have been a lot of questions about what the Ministry is doing to reduce the proportion of GMO feeds. As far as these measures are concerned, aid for farmers in the form of direct payments for the production of this plant group is primarily implemented. It is an instrument that helps to alleviate difficulties in the legume sector. As part of the review of the coupled support instrument, we decided to amend the rules for granting aid in the protein crops sector from 2017. The aim is to create a more friendly environment, a more competitive basis of raw materials for the production of feed. As a result, the revised rules (Bell) for the granting of coupled support in the protein crops sector have been in force since 2017. Can I have another 10 seconds? Thank you very much. There was a topic of rates in terms of various types of production support and in fact a higher rate is sauced to the first 75 hectares of crops, later this rate is lower. But once again the rates are regulated at the level of the European Commission, so of course we will also address this issue. The next activities that are being carried out are the activities of the Central Centre for Plant Variety Studies related to scientific issues. The Ministry of Agriculture is also a partner in a consortium investigating various types of cultivation opportunities and varieties of soya in all soil and climatic areas of the country. Of course, we will also send you the entire list of actions that the Ministry is taking in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u520	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Rules Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of private prosecutors Iwona Hartwich, Marzeny Stanewicz, Anna Glinka, Katarzyna Milewicz, Karol Milewicz and Alicja Jochymek, represented by Jarosław Kaczyński's lawyer of 10 May 2018, to the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalek (print No 634). I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to submit a report to the committee. We'll connect remotely. You're welcome, sir. Do we have a call? We do. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u521	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity in print No 634 on the application of the private prosecutors mentioned just now by the marshal. Your Marshal of the Sejm, under the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, addressed this request to the committee. Committee on Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs after examining this request at its meeting on 24 September this year. pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes to reject the application of private prosecutors Iwona Hartwich, Marzeny Stanewicz, Anna Glinki, Katarzyna Milewicz, Karol Milewicz and Alicja Jochymek of 10 May 2018 for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Mr Jacek Żalek. So much for the committee's position. I would like to inform the High House that the committee has examined this proposal very carefully, with the participation of the parties. Mr Jacek Żalk's proxy put forward a position which shows that during this dispute, which resulted from his words to those protesting with disabled persons at the time, he apologized both publicly and individually. He went with the flowers to those people. During the committee meeting, Mrs Iwona Hartwich denied accepting an apology, but if we look at the media, I found this in one of the statements made by Mrs Hartwich. There is a record: As Catholics, as we are all sitting here, we forgive you and ask you to call Minister Rafalska - she appealed to Hartwich. This is a fragment of the radio speech. I think this has decided that the committee has taken a negative view of the request made by the persons mentioned in the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u522	Thank you very much, sir. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. Mr Jacek Żalek did not wish to speak today. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 18 November this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make another statement? If no one comes forward, I consider the list of Members of the statement to be closed. I don't know if I'm in. He will be the first to make a statement by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Lewis Club. I don't see him. Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, Club Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u523	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your countrymen! Did you know that if you had a card. Gulbinovich lived in the middle ages, wouldn't he get communion in the end? For the Catholic Church considered paedophile acts to be a sin against God, or the heaviest. The first Code of Canon Law of 1917 was already milder, but the earthly paradise for ecclesiastical paedophiles was created only by John Paul. II, announcing a new code in 1983. Pedophilia has been transferred from the group of the most serious crimes to the common ones and included in the chapter "Crimes against special obligations." The establishment of a pedophilia crime... I'm sorry. Proving a pedophilia crime doesn't result in a mandatory loss of a good name. Punishment for having sex with a child can be more lenient than lasting sex with an adult. The harder church punishments than child rape are against the law for profiting from mass sacrifices, because money is the most important. If we add to this the entire pontificate of the Polish Pope's secret instruction!Crimen sollicitationis, ordering bishops to protect ecclesiastical paedophiles, force victims to remain silent, interfere with investigations, report crimes to law enforcement, destroy evidence, warn and transfer the accused to other parishes, it will finally be clear why among the clergy the percentage of paedophiles reaches 4 Which means several times more than in the human population. In Poland, there are 1,200 priests. Institutional protection of pedophiles and low church punishment attracts them to priestly ordination like bees to honey. An example of Odd and several dozen hierarchs hiding pedophiles shows a destructive, demoralizing function of ecclesiastical secret culture, which makes the Church a place of safe refuge for villains, and from national episcopates - a bunch of liars, cheaters and criminals. A generation of bishops of the JPII accepted this because either they were paedophiles themselves or approved the fact that the Church was based on a lie. General defence of the JPII at the expense of The weirdo is ridiculous and ridiculous. Of course, weird was hiding church paedophiles, but it was the implementation of the guidelines of John Paul, who was a friend of paedophiles (the bell), indulged them, protected them not only from the secular, but also from the church... Thank you, Madam President. ...righteous if it even exists. Thank you. One sentence. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u524	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome. Madame, this is really enough. Enough, Member. You're out of time. Mr Jan Szopiński. There isn't. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Please? But I wasn't talking to you, Member. I didn't understand what you said. There isn't. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u525	High Izbo! I will quote, and in this House I will do so with the greatest regret. Sweeps, vomit, fucks - who speaks such a language? Well, Adrian Czubak, a person who serves as the Opole Voivodeship. To this came insulting words towards the Members of the opposition. The black book of five years of government, Mr.PiS Czubak called it a broken document and publicly placed it in a tooth binder, or shredder. A pub language, simple behavior, a shoe and contempt. Happening as a political hooligan about the pronunciation that brings to mind the destruction of books by fanatics. Mr. Voivode, as your predecessor, Opole Voivode in the years 2007 and 2015 I must remind you. Firstly, the voivode is a representative of the Prime Minister, a representative of the government in a region for which attitude, language, personal culture, life is part of professional competence and respect for citizens. Secondly, you have the majesty of the Republic of Poland. In order to do a good job, I'll say it from my own experience, you have to feel it every day. Especially on a day when Poles are terrified and shocked by information about 600 deaths on COVID. Thirdly, Members are by choice, they have a mandate of public support, and the Sejm is in control of the executive authority, which is also yours. Remember, like ministers, you're here to serve, not insult. Your actions can only be explained by the loss of a situation that frightens you beyond. I understand your frustration and fear at the request of a lonely man. You have behind you a series of arbitrary, unconsulted, chaotic decisions, the consequences of which are felt by those who now have no place or know where to treat themselves in Opole. When I watched your speech, I was simply ashamed of you. I wish you a quiet and mental balance. In this state, you're more harmful than helping. Take it under advisement. There's always time to sober up. The word'sorry' is right for everyone, including the voivodship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u526	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice. I would like to make a statement, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u527	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a statement on the titled athlete, citizen of Knurov - Eugeniusz Mehlich. On November 10th, Knurowa reached the sporting world and all inhabitants of the city of Knurowa, an extremely sad and sad information about the death of Eugeniusz Mehlich, a person who for decades was an active athlete, as well as a world champion in strength sports. Eugeniusz Mehlich was an idol of young people, coach and main rudder at the UKS Eugen Knur club, whose subjects reached for the highest titles of world champions, Europe, as well as at national events in squeezing barbells, lying down, and force triathlons. It is impossible to mention all his successes, which he has achieved personally or with his wards. He achieved first successes in 1979 - in Wałbrzych at the Polish Championships, the strong men took the third place. The career culminated in winning the world championship of veterans, which took place in 2015 in Denver. In 2018 he won the European Championship and Poland's record in squeezing barbells in the veteran category. Thanks to his knowledge and diligence, he climbed the levels of his sport career, achieving all possible championship titles including the world championship. For his success, for his work with young people and for his fair play attitude and promotion of the city at national and international arenas in 2000 he was awarded Laur Knurova. As a coach and educator at the Eugen club, he never refused any help to the caretaker, and by seeing the pearls aspiring to the measure of the medalist, he led his subjects to a masterful form. He was also interested in bodybuilding and involved in it. He was certified as a bodybuilder, bodybuilder and fitness trainer. His activities were also noticed in the Polish Association of Cultures, Fitness and Force Trials, which resulted in the appointment to the audit committee. In September 2015, Eugeniusz Mehlich was awarded the Diamond Badge and the 25th anniversary Medal. Polish Association of Bodybuilding, Fitness and Force Trials. Unfortunately, he lost to the disease in 2020. Hi to his memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u528	Thank you very much, sir. Please make a statement by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u529	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is another time, when from this place I ask you to seriously address the issue of the operation of the Shiprepair Yard located in Szczecin, which still has a branch in Świnoujście. In 2012, when the PO-PSL coalition decided to merge the plants in Szczecin and Świnoujście into one organism, I thought it would be a good decision and it would be treated as one organism. Unfortunately, then Minister Brudziński, Mr Grobbarczyk, Mr Dobrzyński said: as soon as we get to power, we will separate these bets. Ladies and gentlemen, today is six years ago when a united right is ruled and today there is no separation, today is the announcement of liquidation. The liquidation of 201 jobs and the sale of land, the sale of a place that is best suited to carry out shipbuilding production. Today, in a time when new ships are not being built, everyone is going to be renovated. What are we doing in Poland? We're shutting down jobs. In return, what do we offer to the workers of the Shiprepair Yard in Świnoujście? Work in Szczecin, 120 km each day twice a day. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a serious treatment. Why is the Ministry of Infrastructure, which today owns on behalf of the Treasury, not talking about restructuring this plant, not looking for solutions, but trying to save Szczecin at the expense of Świnoujście? This is not the way, ladies and gentlemen, to approach the estate of the State Treasury. You can't approach people who have worked there for 40 years and built this plant from scratch. Today, if we eliminate the shipyard in Świnoujście, these people will be lost forever, and there will never again be any ship on the dock and will not be renovated in Świnoujście. It will be only a story, as today is the history of the ST3 factory in Szczecin, which was to build platforms for offshore wind farms. Unfortunately, a few months ago, she was liquidated. Today we're talking about another bet. Ladies and gentlemen! It's Christmas, and the Ministry's mouth is the mouth of its yard presidents... The Ministry has made a decision, people are irrelevant, families are irrelevant, co-operatives are invalid. Today it's important to sell it, sell it to build a dock in Szczecin. Ladies and gentlemen, of what? And from the money that we'll have someday in the future from profit. That's the thinking philosophy of the shipbuilding board, which... Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I will only say one very sad thing. The president is a former Member, he's been one for a dozen months, and you know what? He hasn't been to Świnoujście once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u530	Thank you, sir. And the last statement today will be made by Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u531	As it turned out that no debate was foreseen about the withdrawal of immunity from Mr Jack Żalk, I will use the formula of the parliamentary statement to say what I had to say on this matter. I won't get into the details of this fight between Mr. Żalek and this group chasing him for over two years offended parents of disabled children. The Confederation won't be discussing who's right in some private dispute. We went into politics to put state recovery programs into practice, not to wonder if anyone was rightly offended by someone else or not. And I urge others to be as abstinent as possible in such matters. But I'm gonna use this opportunity to criticize this whole anachronistic set of laws, criminal and civil laws that allow people to argue in courts about their subjective opinions. Polish law places far too many restrictions on freedom of speech. I understand that when someone denigrates, falsely speaks to another person about something that she did not do, then in this case we can test the facts and convict the person who committed the slander, but already the rule that allows him to drag himself into court for insults is simply absurd. Which is an insult, and what is not, is in itself debatable. It's unacceptable for grown-ups to cry in court that one of them said something ugly to another. That kind of whining should end in kindergarten. It is really frivolous that courts extend queues for many really important and important matters for people that they wait years for, because they deal with, among other things. The fact that one citizen challenged another. Well, these courts don't do it on weekends, they do it at the expense of other, more important things. In addition, these provisions are of course applied selectively, casuistically, inconsistently. If we were to take them seriously, we would now have hundreds of thousands of cases in court for insults, after so-called. strikes were publicly insulted by people of different views. Not that I like it, but whatever it may be, I believe that the right to such expression should be granted to all citizens. It is the sacred right of the citizen to express his opinion also in a non-cultural way. We must defend the right to be rude, even if we do not support rudeness. Good customs must not be decreed, for the side costs associated with such discretionary judgments and queues in these courts are not worthwhile to bear them. The verdict in such a court, then we can throw ourselves a bone - the degree of predictability of these judgments is more or less like this. The world isn't perfect, you have to accept that people just get offended and hard sometimes. Similarly, it is ridiculous that a defamation provision that can be used in the present form even for punishment for telling the truth, if such truth hurts someone. As I said, only slander should be punished when we can prove the facts. In addition, these provisions contain a number of such evaluated phrases (The Bell), no one can be sure how they will be interpreted in his case, what it is, e.g. a socially justified interest, which is humiliation, how in this context to understand the demoralisation of a minor. So those who agree with me that such legislation should not be that freedom of speech is more important than any childish name-calling, court-martialing, I invite you to the freedom of speech team, to work on eliminating these archaic and ridiculous laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-18-sejm-21-1.u532	Thank you very much, sir. I just want to let you know that it is not that we did not foresee a discussion, but that is the Sejm's rules. Okay, well, I knew... Of course. That concludes our parliamentary statements. The meeting is adjourned until 19 November 2020 at 3 p.m. 9. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 01]]
