ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u1	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a formal request for a break and a call for the Seniors' Convention, so that we may extend and give the opportunity, first of all, to have Members who found out about yesterday at an hour. Twenty-21 that they should come here, and, secondly, that we should work on this bill, which we will be proceeding on in a moment, but we will have a reasonable lead. The election that didn't take place on May 10th... It's not like nothing happened. We have brought about a situation in which of the holidays of democracy We made a laughing stock. The whole of Europe and the world are laughing at us. Nobody wants to admit that someone printed the cards, someone wanted to make the election, and we also found out that there were no candidates at the end. If we want to conduct these elections, then the Left has proposed a round table of opposition and coalition, together, over one common law, one which will later pass through the Senate, in the responsibility and in the spirit of agreement. Let's talk about this and put it off. Not now, not so fast, the bill should be converted for at least a moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u2	Thank you, sir. It was the first request for a break. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. Please. Jakub Kulesza. Jakub Kulesza. Mr. Krzysztof Bosak was reported, not Mr. Jakub Kulesza. But here you go, Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request not for a break, but for a change in the way the discussion is conducted and, above all, for a change in the way the vote is conducted. In a moment, we will decide to change our approach to elections and to put up with restrictions, restrictions on voting on the spot. Citizens will be able to vote normally, at polling stations, at urns, and those who want will be able to vote remotely. In connection with this change in the doctrine of ordinary citizens, I request this, I appeal to your marshals to abolish the regulation of access to this room and so that Members also have the opportunity: who wants, please, remotely, but who wants to be here, because he is afraid that through the failure of the telecommunications network he will not be able to vote so that he can vote. Now that even the barber's basement has opened up, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's open up the pleural room. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u4	Thank you. Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. You know that very well. Here you go, Mr Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u5	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I submit a formal request for a break in order to convene the Seniors' Convention, to supplement the agenda by the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, a Member from Silesia, on the epidemiological situation in the Silesian Voivodeship. We are getting more and more disturbing information, even alarming. In other parts of the country the epidemic is dying, while in Silesia, as reported today, there are 204 new infections. We would like to know what the truth is, the purpose of calming the situation, because in this information circuit, the noise is circulating more and more unverified, perhaps false, information, for example, that there are no tests for miners and cannot be tested all. I think it would be an excellent opportunity to do so, as there are many gaps on the agenda for this meeting to be presented by the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u6	Thank you, sir. Another request for a recess. And last motion, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 May 1926 a military coup began, resulting in 379 deaths on both sides of the conflict, 1 000. people have been injured. The May bombing, whose victims have not yet been honoured, the May bombing, which resulted in a legally functioning government, headed by Prime Minister Witos, and President Stanisław Wojciechowski resigned to stop bloodshed. These are the most tragic events in our history, where a Pole came against a Pole, a brother against a brother, where blood spilled. Let these events from 94 years ago be a warning to all of us. Let us celebrate the memory of those who died, a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Eternal rest please give them, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon them. Let them rest in eternal peace. Amen.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u8	Thank you very much. A group of Members submitted a draft... Excuse me, there was a request for a break, actually three identical applications, so we're going to vote on one request for a break. There you go. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? He's going real slow today. 458 Members voted. 223 was for, 235 against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. The group of Members submitted a draft law on special rules for the organisation of general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility to vote in correspondence, print No 368, together with the autocorrection, print No 368-A. At the meeting of the Seniors Convention, there was opposition to the proposal to complete the agenda for the first reading of this project. This is according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the I will put this item to the vote on the proposal to complete the agenda. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of The adoption of the proposal to supplement the agenda will mean that the Sejm has agreed to the application of the Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of supplementing the agenda with the following point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the special rules for the organisation of the general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility of voting in correspondence, prints No. 368 and 368-A, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Game changer in second reading. Is Sasin's eagle here today? When he went to save Silesia, I'm scared for Silesia. 458 Members voted. 246 for, 166 against, 46 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on the agenda item added. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! I hear an objection. We therefore proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal made by the Sejm Bureau to listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 235 was in favor, 218 against, four stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the examination of item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for the organisation of universal elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility of voting in correspondence (prints no. 368 and 368-A). I ask Mr Przemysław Czarnek to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u9	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House, on behalf of the Members who signed the draft Print Act No 368, the justification for the draft law on the special rules for the organisation of the general elections of the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility of voting in correspondence. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not like we want to have an election, as I heard here from the speaker. It is not that: if we want to make an election. Conducting the presidential elections is not a matter of wanting. It's a matter of constitutional duty. The term of office of the President-in-Office is ending and it is the duty of the State to hold a presidential election. So it's not a matter of wanting or not wanting, it has nothing to do with here. We have to hold a presidential election... We just can't. ...because the state must have a president for another term. And that is why, in these particular circumstances, in the circumstances of the epidemic, in the circumstances that led - I do not want to say now what, no time and no place - that the vote on 10 May could not take place, and under the conditions of these accelerated elections, because the re-elections managed by the Marshal of the Sejm as a result of the resolution of the State Election Commission of Sunday, 10 May, these are accelerated elections, we submit to the High House this very draft bill. The proposal therefore responds to this situation and shows responsibility for the state, which, once again, must elect the President for the next term of office and the term of office ends on 6 August. The draft law allows universal correspondence elections to be held on request. The draft provides for clear, clear rules in line with constitutional principles of universality, directness of elections, confidentiality of votes and equality. In the elections which will be conducted on the basis of the provisions of the proposed law, each elector will be able to report to the electoral commissioner, through the municipal office, the intention to vote in correspondence. Everyone. Anyone will be able to do so no later than 12 days before the day of the election and, in the case of voters subject to mandatory quarantine or isolation, until 2 days before the day of the election. This is an object. also our self-correction to this project. The automatic amendment is primarily legislative and contains legislative amendments, but this one is important in order to ensure that those in quarantine and isolation who had not previously known that they would be in this quarantine can submit their intention to vote in correspondence also just before the elections, and thus until the 2nd day before the election day. All other voters who do not wish to vote in correspondence will be able to vote on traditional rules at the headquarters of the regional electoral committees, as is apparent from the provisions of the electoral code. The notification of the intention to vote in correspondence will be as simplified as possible. It may take place in any form: oral, written or electronic. What do you mean electronically? The voter will receive the electoral package by mail. The package will be sent by the municipality office. This package will be addressed and will be delivered through the designated operator, the Polish Post, but it will also be possible to receive it personally at the municipal office. This will be the voter's decision to vote in correspondence. The voters voting in correspondence will have until the 2nd day before the election day at the latest to put the return envelope into the sending mailboxes of the Polish Post, those red boxes that are and function daily, placed in the commune. The Polish Post will empty these boxes on the day of the election and deliver the electoral packages to the relevant regional electoral commission during voting hours. The voter will also be able to use another form of service of his voice - he will be able to deliver a return envelope to his municipal office personally or through another person. These are the clear rules of the election that will take place on the basis of the provisions of the proposed law, if the High House adopts this draft law. Clear principles that clearly meet the many demands that we have heard in recent days, the demands that have been the result of doubting the possibility of holding elections on the basis of the current legal situation. We understand these concerns and do not want (the bell) to bother the opposition as well. That is why this way of voting seems to us the most readable. In principle, it fulfils all those conditions which are enshrined in the Constitution 100%. They will be universal elections, they will be direct elections, they will be secret elections, they will be equal elections. These elections, which will be re-ordered by your marshal because of the resolution of the State Election Commission, which was taken on Sunday, will be accelerated elections. This is essential for the conduct of the entire electoral campaign and all the electoral activities that are foreseen in the electoral code and in the electoral law. In addition, once again, they are taking place in an epidemic state, and the state of the epidemic has it in itself, and we see it every day, that despite the fact that the epidemic has been controlled in Poland, it has not been eradicated. Different kinds of things can happen in the next few weeks. This also affects the concept of making the necessary choices, which is contained in this bill. In view of the fact that the elections will be held under such circumstances, applicants have decided to design the rules according to which electoral committees and their candidates retain the possibility to function and participate in subsequent elections if appropriate notification is submitted to the State Election Commission within the time limits indicated in the electoral calendar by the Marshal of the Sejm. This does not, of course, exclude the possibility of other candidates who will apply within the deadlines set out in the electoral calendar, which will be an annex, which will be forwarded in parallel with the election order. Those candidates who have been registered by the State Election Commission by 26 March in elections scheduled for 10 May, due to the great amount of work, all who have done it, also the work related to what is the most difficult today, i.e. The collection of the 100,000. The signatures of the epidemic support will be able to retain all their powers in the elections re-ordered by the Marshal of the Sejm. In the opinion of the applicants, High Izbo, it would be extremely uneven if this fact, the great work done by all the electoral committees and by all the candidates in the last few weeks, was not noticed, I repeat this once again, given the situation in which we are going to hold elections for the President of the Republic of Poland. It's about speeding up elections and the state of the epidemic. Such solutions are also accompanied by provisions on the financing aspect of electoral campaigns, the financial aspect of the functioning of electoral committees. And they're designed in this bill. In our view, the proposed procedure for correspondence voting on request causes that all these principles which I have been talking about, in particular the restoration of the full role of the State Election Commission, which has been the subject of many concerns on the part of the opposition and other environments... I would like to remind you that the State Election Commission was, is and will be the highest authority responsible for the conduct of elections. No one has removed this function from the State Elections Commission in the recent elections. Sasin. The State Election Commission has only lost the power to determine the model voting card in the case of elections of 10 May. On the other hand, it was still, and will be, the highest authority in the election process, as evidenced by the resolution adopted by the State Election Commission on 10 May. If it had been as suggested that the State Election Commission did not hold elections, it would not have had the right to adopt such resolutions either. Thus, we resolve any doubts so far and meet many of the opposition's demands. We are counting on cooperation on the opposition side, we are counting on substantive discussion, we are counting on substantive amendments and we are asking the High House to adopt the proposed law. I repeat: it is not a matter of anyone's will, it is not a matter of wanting or not making choices. This is a matter of the sacred constitutional obligation of the State to hold elections for the office of the President of the Republic of Poland in connection with the end of the term of office of President Andrzej Duda, and this end of the term of office falls on 6 August. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u10	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Przemysław Czarnek to the High House. You're welcome. No, me. Yes? That's what we had to report. Oh, this chaos. But not with us. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is our duty to allow Poles to participate in elections, to conduct them as soon as possible for the sake of Poland, for the sake of the Polish state, its inhabitants. It's our duty. The president ends his term of office on August 6th and to prevent chaos... Which you called yourself. ...until then, we have to choose the president. We are bound by the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen, not by the inscription you know from the T-shirts from which it is left: otua, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Only the constitution, the highest source of law in Poland. Unfortunately, you did everything you could to scare the Poles. Together with Sasin. And these were death envelopes, and that was about the fact that the elections would be faked or that they would be, as he said. Arłukowicz, swindling that it was a coup d'état - Mr. Hołownia, that it was dictatorship, etc., etc. You've finally figured it out. It's all true. I don't want to remind you of all this stuff today. Let me remind you, however, that you insisted on introducing a natural disaster. I must say that I am constantly amazed by this proposal, because you do realize that if we introduced a natural disaster, we would give the majority of Parliament the opportunity to move elections from month to month, month to month, month to month. And that's what I imagine: in Lubuskie, where there are the least cases of Coronavirus, we would have announced the election in three months, and in Silesia - not for three years. How do you imagine that? You would give a majority of Parliament a tool that would fit into our structure of the rule of law, and it was not invented and was not created for that purpose. But we can believe... Ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that you would like to use this tool, so that after a month or so, you can say: dictatorship, they do not want to organize elections. Let me remind you, because the election shift was your main proposition - it was a year, if anything, and that, true again for some months, I don't know, there were various proposals - that you had Mr.Jarosław Gowin's proposal on the table and you also rejected this proposal: no, because no, because not in two, because next year, because in a month, because in three. In fact, it's hard to tell what was really going on, whether you were really concerned about your health... The Constitution. ...and the safety of Poles, or perhaps something else. I came across Mr. Boris Budki's statement just before 10, I think, from May 7th, here a quote: We managed to throw the election in the basket on May 10th. We managed to thwart the plans of Jarosław Kaczyński, who wanted to elect the President of the Republic for you in an envelope election. Except three days later, the same Mr Boris Budka said that the presidential elections should take place, this 10, without any mode, have been suspended by a decision of a man who has no competence for this, etc. Question: "What was it then, ladies and gentlemen?" You were gonna throw it in the trash 'cause it wasn't the date, not the campaign, not the polls, maybe not the candidate. We are, ladies and gentlemen, responsible... And you'll be accounted for. For what happened. For what? ...and we really listened calmly to your hysteria, but also to your demands, really. Sensitive to the comments and demands of Poles, we respond to you with this amendment, which was presented today. We have really listened to the voices of the Poles and we respond to your demands, Mr President. You want to change candidates? You say, here, you can say it all the time. There is a possibility in this amendment, so that you can think about it calmly. And, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, it's quite serious, because this is serious. Maybe some rap now, like the president. In view of the fact that, as I am saying, as my previous speaker, the applicant also said, this is really a serious matter and with seriousness and sensitivity to your demands we have listened to, I hope that for the sake of Poland and in accordance with the Constitution, and not OTUA, we will start work today, we will do this together and responsibly. Dear Marshal! I'd like to make a motion. On the basis of the article. 51 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, acting on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I request that a second reading be made immediately after the conclusion of the first, without sending back the draft law on specific rules for the organisation of elections [[♪ The bell ♪]] common to the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility to vote in correspondence, print No 368, to the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u12	Thank you very much, Member. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by President Boris Budek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u13	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This conclusion at the end showed your true intentions. I don't think there's another such group in Europe, if not in the world that can make such chaos, mess it up, and then pretend that everything is legal. [[Applause]] You really are world champions in making a total mess. You are not only total power, but also total chaos. Let me remind you that it was your guru who said: Elections will be held in May and this is how it is to be. No matter what Minister Szumowski said, no matter what Prime Minister Gowin said, no matter what the experts said, you insisted that your candidate be yours as soon as possible. This did not work for a simple reason - because the opposition is responsible, because the citizens did not agree to the great farce and mockery you proposed. [[Applause]] Are you guys talking about the constitution today? For God's sake, this is the last piece of legislation you can rely on. You introduced the envelope elections that Mr. Sasin was supposed to have organized. Today I hear Sasin went to Silesia to rescue the miners. God forbid you send him anywhere, or he'll ruin what he gets. [[Applause]] I'm really worried about my beloved region, because if you send Sasin there, it's woe to these miners. Be serious, guys. What you've done is a joke. not only from the opposition - we know that you have no respect for us - but this is a mockery of citizens. You're saying today we need to speed up the election. No, you slowed it down. The only constitutional law of the government and the right of this majority to move elections in accordance with the constitution was the declaration of a natural disaster. This state of natural disaster is indeed because since 13 March you have de facto reduced civil rights, people are losing their jobs, entrepreneurs have to protest, you have done not shield, and a baton on these entrepreneurs, and now all of a sudden you are telling us that you are listening to the voice of the opposition or citizens. How do you listen to this voice if the Member says, "Let us go straight to second reading?" You're giving another legal bullshit. Why? Because you are dividing Poles again into better and worse. You're so afraid of what's gonna happen soon, you want to push through this election as soon as possible. After all, it is your minister, Minister Szumowski, who said: Normal elections cannot take place. I don't know if there's going to be a resignation from Minister Szumowski today or tomorrow. When will it be? Because Sasin's resigning today, I get it, he's just gonna resign in Silesia. For God's sake, people, finally understand that the constitution needs to be understood, not dragged out when you like it. Understand that the President of the Republic is not supposed to be a puppet elected in the facade elections. This is the first citizen of the Republic of Poland and must have full legitimacy from the sovereign on whom you are referring. [[Applause]] What you're proposing right now is one big fiction. He will. You're proposing another specialist. We put it on the table, there's a law on your marshals to change the electoral code, because it's the electoral code that regulates the electoral issues, not the specialties. I mean, you want to live in a special state where special forces rule, where the law is special. No, it can be done in a constitutional way, in a consensus, but that's what you have to understand: consensus. And this is where we go two ways, because you guys understand the consensus that you're putting in a bill tonight that no one knows, you're throwing in a self-correction, and you want to go straight to second reading. If this is a consensus, I congratulate you on that feeling. I understand that your party is managed differently, people are called to Nowogrodzka: you got a job to do, on 28 June elections, no matter how it goes, it's supposed to be. Give it to Minister Sasin, he'll do it best. Ladies and gentlemen! From the very beginning we have said: elections must be fair and safe. Thank you, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, for being the only one standing firm in this position. [[Applause]] and thanks to this position, thanks to the democratic majority in the Senate, thanks to our clubs managed to block these bad rules. [[Applause]] Yes, I am proud, sir, that thanks to the Senate and the responsible opposition... Self-government. ...we've blocked the circus that you've been giving to the Poles... Self-government... ...we've blocked the ridiculous correspondence choices your friend Sasin was about to make, and he's not gonna do anything about it, he's gonna ruin it. And now you should say one word: thank you. You should thank us for the chance that the President of the Republic will have legitimacy. But in order to do that, you have to change the electoral code, and what you put forward (the bell) is only suitable for basketball so far. [[Applause]] The motion for rejection. This is a motion for rejection at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u14	Thank you, sir. The position of the parliamentary club Left will be presented by Mr Krzysztof Smishek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u15	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Before I proceed to the evaluation of this bill - we parliamentarians, although I do not hide that it should be the work done by the ruling majority, we owe it to society, the sovereign, an explanation of the situation in which we are in. And we've been in the deepest constitutional, institutional and legal crisis for 30 years. There's never been a situation like this in recent history. No matter who ruled, what political views he had, no one has assassinated the greatest sanctity of democracy, which is the election. It never occurred to anyone that this celebration of democracy should be cut out of meaning and simply canceled, without any mode, without support in the applicable law. For two days now, we've all been wondering who canceled this election, what happened on May 10th. And, of course, we can accept various legal fictions about the elections announced but not held, we can read into the positions of the various institutions. One thing will remain with us forever: someone has deprived us of our decision, someone has taken our freedom and someone has decided for us. And it's not that the pandemic elections are a challenge and a risk. Each citizen would understand the decision and welcome clear, clear decisions, supported by a sound, post-political debate on the transition of elections to safe time. Such a decision would gain respect because it would result from the virtue that the state should be guided by its decisions. That virtue is concern. That's what's missing. There was no lack of applause, no lack of shoes, no lack of lies, no lack of arrogance. In addition, we had political ignorance, insolence and what had already become the tradition of this House - pushing the system's knees. On May 10, we reached the wall. We can't go on. The absence of elections must be an alarm clock for all of us and must awaken us from this nightmare. On Sunday we saw the defeat of the ruling party. But this chaos and legal mess we're all in is also a mess where the President's office, the Republic, and her good name are buried. The Left offered to get out of this impasse. Let's all sit at the round table, everybody, take one step back so we can take two steps forward. [[Applause]] Only consensus on this matter can fix political chaos. At the round table, the governing coalition and opposition can jointly develop solutions that will be socially acceptable, which will restore confidence in the state. And as a Left, we will work on all the projects to sort out the legal situation related to the elections, but the condition is respect for the constitution and the elections prepared and conducted by the State Election Commission. [[Applause]] Let's stop this chuckle dance. Let's put an end to these political death games. There's something much bigger on the horizon than me or your political interest. This interest is the right of every citizen to have influence over the authorities. This business is democracy. Let's put an end to this bullshit. May the best man win. But let us do this in accordance with procedures that have long been disrespectful in this House, in a dignified way, in a way that will give no one grounds to question the outcome and the mandate achieved. There is nothing worse in society than power that doesn't respect itself and power that doesn't allow itself to be respected. We have a whole bunch of problems: rising unemployment, company failures, other sectors in crisis, desperate people going out on the streets defending their dignity, still a rampant epidemic, consuming victims, underinvested health care, which begs for donations on social networks. A few weeks ago, from this Seymary speaker I said that the election card would not be hired, the election card would not pay the bill either for gas or electricity, but the election card thrown into the ballot with the belief that the future might be better, that the power chosen by this card would be based on care, empathy and understanding, is priceless, because the power chosen through this card is the rightful authority, without sin fraud and boots. Today we have a big test ahead of us all. The Left proposes amendments to this law. We will submit them to your marshals in the belief that most will take them into account in the democratic principle that most rule but respect the rights of minorities. Let us make citizens again proud of this House, which will be able to communicate with each other in the face of the crisis, despite fierce disputes and political struggles. The missed elections on May 10 will be a national trauma forever. But it's time to settle, and it's time to settle all those who spent millions of public money that they threw in the mud. Today, let us leave this House with the feeling that we have taken a step that, for a moment, will unite our national community. Finally, I appeal once again to your decency, your responsibility for the state and your common sense. Your Marshal (The Bell), Prime Minister, Members and Members of the governing coalition, you have the majority, you can press the entire opposition with your elbow, and you can push the bill through with your knee, but you can also take a step backwards, sit down with us at the table and work out a consensus on the choices that everyone will accept. Otherwise, whoever wins this presidential election, we all lose. One day's corpse isn't gonna change much. The new law worked out jointly, for which 460 Members, 100 senators, will vote hand in hand, would be the victory of all of us, the victory of democracy and the victory of Poland. The Left chooses Poland. Now the choice is yours. Thank you very much, sir. It's either Poland or the party business. Mr. President, it's time. I request that the project be sent to the Board of Administration and Home Affairs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u16	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by the President of the High House Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Society is organizing its statehood so that life can be organized, so that there are rules, certain rules. That's what it looks like when it's all sorted out. The last days and weeks have shown how bad decisions can be made or the lack of decisions will lead to a mess, a situation in which the Polish state is in ruins. You so often repeated the Polish password in ruins 5 years ago, but it was not an assessment of reality, it was just a prediction of the future. Unfortunately, to this future and to this organizational ruin you have led the Polish state. This is the sense of many of our compatriots who, just looking at your actions, are breaking their hands today. We need to move forward. You can't be stuck in this ruin, this mess, this mess you've caused. And we need to find a solution because that's what our countrymen expect. Yeah, they're expecting an election. Yes, they expect fair rules, the possibility of a safe vote for everyone. Today's attempt was made, only at the very beginning are you trying to destroy this attempt by sending this law without discussion to second reading. Why? Why don't you take a few hours? I would also like your marshal to call - let's restore the control function of the Sejm over the government - Minister Szumowski. Just a few weeks ago, he said the safe choices in the premises could take place in two years. Will Mr Szumowski now vote in accordance with Minister Szumowski's recommendations or vice versa? What's he gonna do? Tell him to come in here and answer our questions. Let us restore Parliament's control over the government, because it has been lost and this happens. The secrets of this bill. Why aren't there any deadlines for signing, the duration of the election silence? It is to be all discretionary and evaluated and then regulated by the Marshal of the Sejm. If it's discretionary, it raises more and more doubts. If it's hard on the bill, there's less doubt. Let us look for a solution that will sort it out, and not deepen the disdain. Why do you only want three days to protest? Is 14 days that much? Three days? Are you afraid our countrymen will protest if they have a sense of injustice? Yes, they have the right to this protest, as they had the right to protest in many places: under the Presidential Palace, under the courts, when they saw that things were going wrong. You found out in a few days that the legal bill about the correspondence vote, over which the whole month of discussion was unacceptable, and you quickly threw it in the trash. It would be fair to tell Poles today: Yes, we made a mistake, it was unprepared. You didn't make it. You don't have the strength to admit your mistake. And that always makes it possible to move forward. On one point, I must agree with Mr Czarnek: that you must have a president. Because today is the president, and it's like he's not here. He jumps on TikToku, he can rap... He can't. ...but he is unable to speak on the presidential election in Poland. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] He can't even rap, you're right. Thanks for the hint. He can't even rap, but he's jumping over there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A poet or something. Look at this. What's the situation? The President of the Republic, elected in free democratic elections, is unable to leave... And rap. ...and deliver the messages, take the floor and even say what he thinks in this situation. How long will Mr Andrzej Duda be afraid of Jarosław Kaczyński? At least he has to answer that question, because he can't answer any of the other questions. I'm sorry to say this, but we're competing, but he won the election. Fairly five years ago and no one is denying it, but today it is unable to bear this function once again at the time of the epidemic, at a time of crisis. This shows how much government changes are needed in Poland, because they allowed such self-government to enter through democracy of authoritarian governments. We're gonna make some adjustments. One is very important. In order for the vote to be as secure as possible, it must take place for two days, because this will enable the use of the polling facilities. This hybrid way is interesting, but in order for it to be right, two days of voting will be much better, because it will allow security and commission, and those who will come. There will be no crowd, there will be no queues (the bell) to the polls. You can write it down in an interesting way. We are ready to discuss this project, but really, substantively, to cooperate. This was also requested by the Left, the Civic Coalition. Yes, it can be done in a normal way, because it must be done for Poland in a normal way and restore Poland to normality. We're gonna win this fight. We'll restore hope, restore normality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Krzysztof Bosak will present the position of the Confederacy Circle in the first part. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Applicants' Members! It's rare in politics that in two months when someone's right, events show it. And that's exactly what happened in the last few days. On 11 March, as the first candidate in this presidential election, I requested that the election be postponed. I was the first to say that you will have a problem with making the elections, that you will have a problem with completing the committee, that this traditional procedure under epidemic and quarantine conditions will simply not work. You've kept it up to the last few days that everything's okay. Turns out no, the election's gonna be postponed. The project that you are making today in the Seym responds to my proposal equally from a month ago, on April 5th. After you added to the anti-crisis shield in the middle of the night, surprisingly, an amendment saying that people over the age of 60 would be able to vote in correspondence, unlike the one who occupied this part of the opposition room I did not criticize this idea, because the correspondence vote itself is not wrong. After all, you took them from Poles so that Polonia could not vote because you were afraid that Polonia supported us, not you. [[Applause]] That is why in 2017 and 2018 you closed the correspondence vote, we remember it perfectly, Mr. I didn't criticize what you did, your proposal, I just said: let's extend it to all Poles. Exactly on April 5th I said: let's extend the correspondence vote to all Poles who want to. And you, with your typical leader Jarosław Kaczyński's stubbornness and perverseness, said that you would make a forced correspondence vote for everyone. Why? We haven't learned that in the last few weeks. You referred to your Minister Szumowski's health forecasts, but I think you already believe that Minister Szumowski was wrong. All the prognosis of Minister Szumowski about 2 years went into a corner. You're gonna make an ordinary election just like we said it would be the best option, admit it. You waited a month to admit the Confederacy's cause. Yesterday I presented a four-point plan on how to make an election, get out of the crisis. There has to be a deadline, a personal vote, a correspondence campaign, a fair campaign. Your project only responds to two of these challenges. You're introducing the voting procedure. We are waiting for a date, and we are waiting for information about a fair campaign, especially in public media. We will present seven amendments to the draft. I would advise you to read them carefully, because from what we see so far, you will find ideas for your future projects in these amendments. If you read them carefully, you'll know what you'll be proposing next month. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki in the second part of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the round-table political class, jointly and in agreement, has led to the embarrassment of the Polish state. For the first time in 30 years, no elections have taken place. Not only because the camp of power was trapped in internal intrigues, ripped apart because it could lose the Presidential Palace, but also because it irresponsiblely behaved the total opposition, blocking the bill in the Senate. Like blocking? It's started. You say five minutes. You're blocking, too? That wasn't good either. What do you mean, no? This bill in the Senate had to be voted out, rejected, we waited for amendments as a Confederation, but you didn't work on it for 30 days at all. It should also be made clear that this situation in the state might be different if it were not for the fact that against any political force or any government, even if only suspected of right-wingness, because this government cannot be blamed for true right-wingness, you are always hysterical. And that hasn't changed since 2005. It's real. And it's like going back to the '90s and what she's been doing, even since then. Since 2005, you have been unleashing hysteria and thus preventing a real debate in Poland and reaching consensus. Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been said today: On 5 April, Krzysztof Bosak proposed this form of election, which today is being followed by Law and Justice. For a month and a week Law and Justice went to reason - a terrible long time for a party ruling for so many years in Poland - to propose this formula. I think that this is prophetic, gentlemen, because the Left, the Platform is actually a disgraceful past of our country, as far as the political class is concerned, is a wretched present in the form of Law and Justice and the future: Krzysztof Bosak and the Confederation. This is the future of the Polish political class. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the Sejm Bureau is based on Article. 39 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm set a limit of 30 questions for clubs according to the following parities: Law and Justice - 15, Civic Coalition - nine, Left - three, PSL-Kukiz15 - two, and one question for the circle. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome. You don't even have any questions. This is our project. Do we have to ask each other questions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question is simple. Will you finally get the word "sorry"? Will you apologize to the Poles for this circus you've prepared? Will you apologize for the chaos and above all apologize for the tens of millions of zlotys that could have been dedicated to health care, could have been used for workers losing their jobs, for entrepreneurs, but you spent them on printing empty Sasin cards? Will you apologize to the Poles that you lied to them for two months, saying that the elections will be held? Will you apologize to the Poles for the fact that instead of dealing with the biggest problems and challenges that are ahead of us, the epidemic and the economic consequences, for two months you have only dealt with the elections? Will Mr Sasin's resignation be placed on the desk of the President of the Council of Ministers today? This is the person responsible for this chaos. The company's performance is too good. He was the one who promised the election would be held. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u24	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Maciej Necessary, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allowing Poles to vote in correspondence is a good thing not only during the epidemic, but at all, but good things do not arise without effort. This correspondence vote will be followed by a huge effort of Polish postmen and a huge organizational effort of Polish Post. I would like to make sure that this effort will be paid well, and the entire operation financed, because in the proposed act there is no mention of any additional financing of the Polish Post. Hence my question: Can Polish postmen expect to receive all necessary security measures and their efforts will be well paid, additionally paid? Will Poczta Polska receive additional funding for organising these elections? Does the whole process arise in agreement with the postal trade unions? You can't do this without extra money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not gonna agree that once again the government is throwing the cost of their ideas over to others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u26	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Paweł Szramka, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are glad that you understand that these elections must be held correctly, that they will not be envelope elections, just as you wanted to do which were completely unprepared. You finally have a chance to do it with the opposition, to do it responsibly, to finally do it right. We want the presidential election, first of all, because the current President's term of office ends, and secondly because this president has to be replaced. That's our job together, that's why we want to do it. However, in order for these elections to be safe, it is necessary to amend this law. I would like to ask you if you are willing to accept our idea that the elections should take place for two days so that it can be spread out for two days so that there is no such density of the population at the polls so that there are no such aggregates and people can come to the polls in a safe way. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u28	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that we are finally giving citizens a choice. If you're not sure about a remote vote, you come to the polls. He who fears for his health has the opportunity to vote in correspondence. Let's expand this choice. Perhaps there are people who are also afraid to receive this package from the postman, because it is known that on paper the virus can also persist. Let us also introduce the possibility of voting online. We have a trusted profile, we have an ePUAP. Already in these elections, some of the citizens signed a downloaded electoral card, the form of which was drafted by Minister Sasin, signed it electronically and sent it to the Delegation of the National Election Office. Let's give citizens the opportunity, too. Following the blow, since we're thawing the election, let's thaw the economy and freeze the bureaucracy. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u31	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I was waiting with hope for this project, because I was hoping that it would be a project that would want to ease customs and conduct honest elections in Poland. Unfortunately, once again, I'm disappointed in you. I say it with great regret that this project is like a barrel of honey, but not with a spoon, but with a bucket of kid, because this project isn't good for anything. Of course, the correspondence vote that you threw out of Polish law, fortunately you are restoring. We brought them in, it worked out in 2015, you threw them out, and now you want to go back to him. But what you did in the article. 13 and further, it's just a simple legislative ban, that's legislative lawlessness. You want to introduce the terms that the marshal can make without any control. And I ask you, will you agree that the terms of electoral action should be included in this bill, so that everyone knows what the rules are? Are they playing? [[♪ The bell ♪]] These elections under this law will not be equal and safe, i.e. they will not be democratic. They can't be done on these terms. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u32	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, club Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Applicants! In the explanatory memorandum of this law, you refer to the elections held in South Korea. True, the mode, methods and standards, when it comes to proceding this law, are more similar to the standards of North Korea, but not to me. The example of South Korea is to be an example for you of the safe choices made despite the pandemic, but you do not want to introduce them in Poland by referring to South Korea's solutions. My question is simple: Why? Why is there no protection legislation in your bill for all voters? Why is there no regulation and no word on the reduction of the number of voters in the premises? Why isn't there a word about positions, secure positions for committee members with security shields at a safe distance? After all, why do you want to shift the costs to local governments, the costs of any protective measures for the members of the committee? [[♪ The bell ♪]] All these problems I will respond to the amendments tabled by the Left Club. So my question is simple: Will you support it? Are you ready for really safe choices, safe for Poles and Poles, not just for the ruling party? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u34	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I'll ask you a specific question, but -- what's the saying -- sometimes the devil is in the details. I wanted to ask whether the elimination of judges from the district election committees is an oversight of whether or not a part of a broader strategy, whether replacing judges with people only about legal education is a mistake, an oversight or a deliberate reduction of the substantive part of the compositions of such committees. This is very important. Since we are talking so much in this debate about the need to keep standards that we need to keep track of them, so that the credibility of the elections is as high as possible, I think it is worth answering this question today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u36	Thank you very much. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about why, after this defeat and the embarrassment of the envelope vote, you continue to take a blind alley called electoral chaos. Why are you doing this? Why is the text of the bill that was supposed to fix the situation being posted to the Sejm's website last night and the vote on this project is held at noon today? Why don't you have such elementary responsibility and consult with independent experts about this bill? I understand it's not with opposition, however it's a good habit, but at least with experts... Why aren't you working on electoral law in an open, transparent and clear way? After all, this bill must gain the support of the Senate, which has 30 days to work on it. Why, where you should build trust, distrust and uncertainty? Why are you introducing a bill that was supposed to fix what you destroyed, a recipe that gives the Marshal of the Sejm the right to manipulate in any way the terms of electoral action? Why do you turn electoral law (the bell) into an election cabaret? [[Applause]] Bravo! Way to go, Kamila!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I have the following question. Well, electoral shipments will be free of charge, that is, according to the article. 27 Postal rights will therefore have to receive a grant. Today, the grant budget provides for 3,400 thousand. zł. This applies to consignments for darkened, so-called consignments. the library and will probably also cover electoral shipments. I have a question: Are those 3,400 thousand? is there enough for such issues in the election? And my second question. Why do you believe so little in the Polish Post Office? Why can a community worker go alone with the electoral package and the postal workers have to go with the two of them? This community worker can throw it in, too. it's in the box, because there's just no confirmation, it's just an indication that the authorized representative of the municipality is delivering the package, but it doesn't know how he's doing it. Why must there be two people in one case and one person in the other? Another question. Would it not be so (the bell) that if we paid the employees of the commune, they would choose the city, and into the colony, some village would have to rush the postman with one package? This amount will exceed what amount you don't know... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u40	Thank you very much, Madame. Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Czarnek, representing the applicants, said: There is no time and no place to talk about what happened on 10 May. And I ask you, Mr, when is this time and what is this place, because there is no better place to talk about what happened on 10 May than the Polish Parliament. There is no better place to talk about your compromise than the Polish Parliament. There is no better place to talk about how you paralyzed the state than the Polish Parliament. There is no better place to talk about Sasina packages, about illegal money spent, about illegal decisions than the Polish Parliament. And we don't want to talk about it just because we're gonna settle you, because it's time you're gonna be in front of the D.A., but we want to talk about it so you don't make any more mistakes like that. We did not allow the election to be set up by Jacek Sasin and we will not allow the election process to be manually controlled by Marshal Witek. Elections are to be safe and fair, because such choices are expected by Poles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u42	Thank you. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 10 May, elections were to take place in Poland. It didn't happen. It just didn't happen. And two days after that date, we still do not know when and on what terms these elections are to be held. We have chaos: pandemic chaos, economic chaos, constitutional chaos. Prime Minister! Do you really still believe that there was no basis for a natural disaster? It wasn't. Come here, to the speakerium and have the courage to say: we have made a mistake, which is the best proof of what we are debating now. You didn't make it. You're incompetent, you've compromised our country. You've been busy making money on your masks, your party games, not what's most important. Your disgrace will become history, and your Poles will settle it. Mr Kaczyński! You're not here. Mr... You slept through your time in 1981. Mr... But the history of your account (the bell), because you are responsible for what is happening in Poland now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u44	The next question will be asked by Mr Jan Grabiec, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u45	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill we're debating is a law on special rules for the organisation of presidential elections. What are the special rules? Is this about specific rules on how Poles avoid the risk of coronavirus infection? There's no description of such rules here. This bill talks about how the elections will be held as soon as possible, even if there is a peak of disease at the same time, the peak of the epidemic. Are there specific rules on security in electoral premises, security of envelopes? There's no description of these particular rules here. What specific principles are described? Special rules have been described for the political intervention of the ruling party in the electoral process. And that, unfortunately, is what this bill is about. The fact that it is not the law that sets the terms important for election committees, candidates, important for all voters, only those terms will be defined by the Marshal of the Sejm from the party from which one of the candidates originates. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why are you kidding Poles? That's the question we're asking today from this bleacher. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u46	Thank you. Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Question for Members and Members of the PIS: When will you finish this Sasinaria? You were lucky enough to listen to our project and accept some of the good solutions, and now you are wasting this opportunity working in the community and in agreement, not wanting to have a normal parliamentary debate. I will address Minister Emilewicz instead of the Members of the PIS, who are simply untruthful, and every one of them must be understood as untruthful, because at least you seem to want to listen. Minister, Art. 14 is outrageous. You're replacing Minister Sasin with Marshal Witek. It looks nicer, but it's still not the PKW, and you said yourself that the PKW should have full control of the electoral process. Why do you want to hit small communities? Why don't you help them organize safe election committees? It is these poorest communities that will suffer from your laws. You blew the election and the money instead of going to Mr. Sasin's fanaber, they should go to small towns. And the third thing. How are you gonna support the post office staff? Are they? [[♪ The bell ♪]] For them extra money? Take care of people, not just yourself. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u49	Thank you, Marshal. Indeed, as you listened to yesterday, Prime Minister, Mr, who represents the applicants, you spoke about dialogue, about the fact that you want to talk about inviting us to dialogue, but whatever is said to you here, you nod your heads and say no. And that's it. If you're gonna talk to us like this... I haven't answered yet, sir, but I will. But what argument do you take? The most frequently appearing in this law is: the provisions of the electoral code are repealed. What is this law, the most common act of which is: the provisions of the electoral code are repealed? The electoral code in Poland is to conduct elections on the basis of the code, not to introduce laws that repeal the provisions of the electoral code. You guys really have a special talent. You put elections in Poland, it ended in an absolute disaster. If you don't get off this road, that's the second time it's gonna happen. You won't make it again, you're gonna blow up the elections in Poland again. We encourage dialogue. The more you really listen to here, the less we'll be working in the Senate. If you don't cheat, we can get here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to an agreement. But fair enough. Thank you. Mr... You talk about acquired rights, you say it has to be equal. And those who come are not equal, Mr Black? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u50	Thank you very much, sir. The last question will be asked by Mariusz Witczak, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! In 2014, Parliament adopted a modern electoral ordination. This document includes the possibility to vote in correspondence in a general way, the possibility of voting in advance for those who directly downloaded the electoral package and wanted to deposit it in the week preceding the elections at the municipal seat, and finally a very modern package for disabled people was included. But in 2015 came the PiS and the PiS started a regular fight against all these activities. With sadistic passion, you've been cutting out all the modern solutions in the electoral code over the past few years. Tell us honestly today: How do you feel about the solutions you bring back to life today and you fight them? Tell us honestly why you've been acting like a monkey with a razor in front of the sacred right of Poles to free elections over the past few years. And finally tell us honestly (the bell) at the end: When you start treating the electoral code... Thank you. ...as the right of Poles, not Kaczyński to favour PiS? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u52	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, will answer these questions on behalf of the Government. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm glad we can talk about this project today. Well, I'm glad we've been able to put this project together. The government welcomes the solutions that have been proposed. Just like the last one. He was positive, too. High Izbo! Poland needs the President of the Republic. This is probably a fact that no one in this House has questioned. The President's term of office expires and the election of the President is needed. This is needed and this is also recognised by the State Election Commission. The resolution of the State Election Commission makes it possible to think about these elections in a relatively short time, so this amendment is also needed relatively quickly. This project, which should probably be, can be said, welcomed by everyone in this Chamber, gives Poles the opportunity to vote publicly in correspondence, but also in premises, restores the role of the State Election Commission in a number of places. This project also gives people in quarantine the opportunity to vote. This project gives people abroad the opportunity to vote. Here are some well-thought-out provisions that will also give them the opportunity to vote. All this is worth remembering. And now, High Izbo, we have a situation in which you present a story and your narrative, which unfortunately, I have the impression is not consistent with reality. Well, that angry attack you're bringing to Prime Minister Jack Sasin for... That he illegally printed the cards illegally. For what? For the government's efforts to do everything possible to keep the deadline for May 10? Let me remind you that this is not Prime Minister Jacek Sasin, that it was the Senate who tried for 30 days, yet allegedly claiming that he was preparing good solutions to improve the bill... He just sent over a proposal to reject the bill. And that was the only thing you could come up with and propose. The Senate's actions were legal and Sasin's actions were illegal. And that's worth remembering. It is also worth remembering about the opposition of many local governments to block the electoral process. Now this project, it seems, comes out with open hands also to representatives of the opposition. And with your arms. You're talking about the great projects you had, the great electoral law you've prepared, and the supposedly fatal changes that were in the previous term. Let me just remind you that at that time, you also criticized in a merciless manner the changes. You said that, for example. The number of null and void votes will be enormous. Meanwhile, in the municipal elections under the rules of the code prepared by you was over 18% non-valid votes and, after amendments, 6% Voices. But of course, you've forgotten that, and it's not worth remembering in your opinion. And how much was the 10th of May important? High Izbo! There are also accusations about this project: that this is a legal bullshit. The Platform's representatives say they have a project. I took the liberty of getting acquainted with him. I note with regret that there are no envisaged solutions for this particular situation of the pandemic of Coronavirus, for example. arrangements for persons in quarantine. There is, however, one article about the fact that a vote on the Internet is to be put in place. Of course, it's easy to write it down, the paper will take it all, just the idea of how to put it in, probably there isn't either. There is an idea of representatives of the Polish People's Party concerning 2 days planned for the vote. Let me point out gently that there is an art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2nd Constitution, which states that elections are held on a work-free day. There are also judgments of the Constitutional Court in this case. I'm sure Professor Czarnek could tell you more about it. High Izbo! A few comments have been made perhaps quite sensible, for which I thank you, and what should be, seems, at least, to be the subject of reflection, but today the most important thing is that we actually do everything in this House to be able to accept this project, which often goes against what you have been talking about, including your demands. Don't try to make sure these elections don't take place, because they just have to take place. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just like May 10th. That's what you said. And it doesn't force anyone's whims to do it, but it forces the constitution to do it. One last thing. There are reservations about the deadlines to be set, but here the primacy of the Constitution is clear. If we have a situation in which the Marshal of the Sejm has 60 days to schedule the election, it means that he cannot be forced to make it exactly 60 days from the day of the decision. I think everyone's gonna be very clear about this. Anyway, in the article. 195 The electoral code - if the term of office of the Sejm is shortened - is a 45-day clause. It is precisely the law - The electoral code provides for such solutions, according to which the Marshal of the Sejm, in accordance with the State Election Commission, sets this calendar, because the deadlines may necessarily be shortened. So I would look for an agreement, I would look - as the applicant has put it - for this outstretched hand and possibly for good changes, because this will be useful for all of us. And as for the state of the natural disaster today, when you are calling on the government to freeze the economy, to put up with the restrictions, to say that the state of the natural disaster needs to be put in place, it really is a total misunderstanding. There may be a situation of polling failure for some candidates, but that is not yet a reason to translate elections into infinity. Thank you very much. Say it in Silesia, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u54	Thank you very much, Minister. On behalf of the applicants, Mr Przemysław Czarnek will speak. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, please do not discuss this in this form. You had the opportunity to ask a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, too, because most of the questions, and this is a very good forecast you have asked, were substantive questions. Mr Łukasz Schreiber has already referred to most of them, so I will not repeat it. I will start with what Mr Kierwiński said after all. I really think that today is not the time and place for this - and that is why I did not want to do it - to remind you who is the obstruction, what is the arson of this country and how, with the help of the Senate, the local governments, it was impossible to vote on 10 May. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But because Poles know exactly that and judge you, once again I repeat: not the time and place to remind you of it. Everything is perfectly clear, sir. Let us focus on how to perform the state's constitutional responsibilities in carrying out the presidential election. Indeed, a few questions are extremely important and worthwhile. I will answer some questions now, and perhaps there will still be time for discussion. An extremely important issue in an epidemic: securing and voting, and members of the regional electoral committees against the possibility of infection with the coronavirus. It is precisely for this reason that the role of the Minister of Health has been clearly defined in the provisions of this law, as well as for the public delegation to issue a regulation to the Minister of Health, inter alia. on the quantity of equipment and personal protective equipment in order to ensure security during the vote. This role of the Minister of Health has also been clearly defined elsewhere. There was a question about the county election committees. Mr President, it has been made clear that there are people in the District Election Commissions who have a higher education in law who guarantee the proper performance of their duties as members of the District Election Commissions. The judges fit this definition as far as possible, absolutely no one rules out judges. Because I understand that's what he meant. The judges are most welcome in the District Election Commissions because of their experience and competence. These are people who have a higher education in law and who guarantee proper performance of their duties. No one's ruling anyone out, so there's no doubt. And the last thing before the discussion later, the issue of the state of the natural disaster. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get this over with, because this is really something extraordinary. At the same time... I'm especially addressing my colleagues in the Confederacy. On the one hand, we hear Mr Bosak, a presidential candidate who talks in the media about the need to introduce a state of natural disaster that will protect human rights and freedoms. The state of the natural disaster is in order to introduce further radical restrictions on freedom and rights, not to protect, restrict freedom and rights. They're all in. On the other hand, we hear Mr Kulesza, who is right to say that we are to freeze the economy, to freeze social life, to freeze political life. That's what we're doing, which is why there's no basis for a natural disaster. Introducing it now, under conditions of freezing the economy, would be a radical violation of the constitution. This is completely obvious to everyone, and you deny yourself, using the same argument. Manipulation. Finish the state of the natural disaster. The epidemic is in effect on the basis of a bill passed by you, and it's working out great. We've mastered the pandemic. Especially in Silesia. We still have to fight her. It's gonna take a while, but we're pretty sure we're gonna make it. One last thing. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that there have been substantive questions. I'm asking you to do one thing. You could really work very well with us, and I hope you will. One thing you have to get rid of, because it rained here many times from this podium in just half an hour. You have one disease. I'm not a psychiatrist... I can see that. ...but she has to be described. This disease is called ducky-phobia. [[Applause]] If you get rid of the ducky-phobia, you'll be a really responsible opposition. As long as you guys are ducky-phobic... It's Tusk's fault. ...freaks out what you're saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u56	Thank you very much. Marshal, please respond. If I were to react, it was also just a moment ago for Mr Snapshot to speak. Let's settle the discussion. Anyway, I'm closing the discussion. In the discussion, requests were made to proceed immediately to the second reading of the draft law, to reject the project at first reading and to refer the draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals after the break. I'm declaring a three-minute break. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 minutes 01 hours 14 min 09]] I'm reopening the session. We'll check the quorum after the vote. Please, all your fellow Members... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] We'll check the quorum first, sir. ... present in the plenary room, in other rooms and remotely press any button to establish quorum. You're welcome. This is new. We have never checked the quorum before the meetings. The meeting shall be attended by 454 Members. I therefore find a quorum. We have two formal applications. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u57	Mrs. Marshal! We really care about being serious. If you want to work seriously, I would like to inform you, because perhaps your marshal was not before the break, that we, working at first reading, learned during this reading that there was an autocorrection. She's very important. You should have listened to your marshal. There are, among others. rules that specify that the whole correspondence mode is not really the competence of the PKW, but the competence of the government, ministers. He's staying. There's records there, for example. amendment to Article. 13, who say that if these next elections fail, this bill will also apply to them. That's how we understand the record. My request, Your Marshal, is that you give us a moment to analyze this. It cannot be that, at first reading, there are new rules that we need to read in the Chamber. It's obvious you were against it. We are unable to talk to experts, even at the club we are unable to talk, and your Marshal Gosievska says that between the first and second reading there are three minutes' breaks. Either we're having a serious conversation, you're giving us time to read the paperwork and make substantive remarks, or it's fiction again. Mr President, what is the formal conclusion? The motion is for a recess. I'm sorry, Marshal, I thought it was understandable. The motion is for a half-hour... An hour. An hour. ...an hour's break so that we can analyze the auto-correction you reported during your ongoing reading.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u58	Okay, thank you. Mr Krzysztof Sobolewski, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u59	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Not so much with a formal application as with a reminder and a memory... What's the mode? No mode at all. ...because May 12 is a special date in the history of Poland. 85 years ago, Marshal Józef Piłsudski, creator of Polish independence, father of the founder of our homeland went to God. I would ask the High House to celebrate a minute of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u60	Thank you very much. That's the opposite of it. Let's not joke, sir. To what, Mr Conversely, is the proposal against it? No, sir, please sit down. We're continuing to process... Joseph Piłsudski does not deserve silence. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a request for a recess. He deserves a loud debate. Therefore, please... He deserves to talk about his life, his actions and his omissions in these walls. Sit down there, sir. I submit a motion if the memory of Józef Piłsudski is so expensive for some of the present to discuss this. Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a request for a half-hour break. I will put this motion to the vote. We are voting on a request for a break. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a half-hour break, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Game in the O.R.]] I would ask you, however, not to hold such discussions in the Chamber. We're waiting for the result... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Oh, no, sir. Mr. Gliński, maybe? No, I have asked all your Members to do the same. Your marshal, maybe to calm you down because they insult you... Ladies and gentlemen, I see there is no response to my request. Again, I ask you to keep these wonderful thoughts to yourself. You're welcome, okay? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] We are looking forward to the outcome of the vote, Mr President. 455 Members voted. 224 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. I state that the Sejm's motion has been rejected. We continue to consider item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for the organisation of universal elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility to vote in correspondence. The following conclusions were put forward in the discussion: - to reject the draft law at first reading, - to accede immediately to the second reading of the draft law, - to refer the draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the bill. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill at first reading. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 368 and 368-A would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 137 was for, 245 against, 75 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. I will now put to the vote a motion to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent a draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. We proceed with the vote on the motion to proceed to second reading without delay. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill contained in prints 368 and 368-A will want to press the button. Mr. Chairman was almost in favour. Almost. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 236 was in favor, 221 against, two abstentions. I state that the Sejm has agreed to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen! In reply to Mr Nitras, I would like to say that this self-correction was made, Mr Nitras, not at first reading, but before. How long before? On the other hand, Commissioner, since you have declared that you will want to work on this project, I will now announce an hour's break. I'm declaring a time-out. 3:30. Great, thank you. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 38 hrs. 16 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for the organisation of universal elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility to vote in correspondence. I have a formal application. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u61	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! The High Law of Izbo! Since such important matters must be dealt with within so few hours, I ask for a change in the way in which the discussion is conducted, for the Sejm's Bureau to withdraw from the wrong decision on the regulation of speaking time and the number of questions on parities, calculated from the top to the club, the circle. Because, Mr. Marshal, we find that not only are we familiar with these amendments, but also some new inserts, you are preparing for us superspecober Minister Szumowski, I do not know if this will be true, Mr. Reporting Officer, we would advise you to advise on this rather than just accept it uncritically for acceptable news. Or maybe Minister Szumowski just resigns, which would solve... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Unfortunately, he won't.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u62	Thank you. Mr Przemysław Czarnek with a formal proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's International Nurses and Obstetrics Day today. The third died today. I propose that the High Chamber thank the nurses and midwives together for their efforts, especially at this very difficult time, during the epidemic, and also wish them every success. I ask that the High Chamber, in a position of applause, thank all nurses and midwives. [[The gathered get up, give a round of applause]] Test people, test them. I have a special I.D. for that. My sleep. My mother was a nurse, and that is why I did it, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u64	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus with a formal request. You're welcome. But there's one for the club, marshal. It's true. One per club is always a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Informal conclusion. Yeah, one for the club, but today is a special day. 12 May is the day of numerous anniversaries, including the 50th anniversary of the death of General Władysław Anders, who died in London in 1970 on 12 May. I don't think the characters of Władysław Anders need to be introduced. A prominent commander, a participant in World War I, a participant in the Italian campaign and the Battle of Monte Cassino. Today, the third nurse died. I'd like a minute of silence, please. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u66	Thank you. One more formal motion. You're gonna have to file a motion. Mr Boris Budka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u67	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a motion for us to vote in favour of a recess together... She was. ...convening the Senior Convention and submitting a bill to the High House on guaranteeing tests for health professionals, including nurses, nurses and midwives. [[Applause]] It's not an art of rap, it's not an art of bravo. The trick is to translate it into action. For several weeks now, there has been a bill in this House that responds to the expectations of nurses, midwives and nurses, the whole health care service. All you can do is remember them once a year, as their holiday is. And we propose over political divisions: let us take care of the health, the lives of these people together, because they put their lives at risk every day for us. Let's adopt a good bill that lies in the marshal's staff. You've got most of it, we encourage you to do that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u68	Unfortunately, you must have ruined this ceremony with your political speech. It's sad. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We proceed to the second reading of the bill. But I made a formal motion, Marshal, in writing. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of this project? But I made a formal motion, Mr. Marshal, you don't listen to me very carefully. Yes, yes, please sit still. I support him in writing here. Please have a seat. Formal motion, please vote. No, we're not voting now. Sit down. Sit down. You're welcome, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Formal request to change the way the discussion is conducted. Oh, yeah. Colleagues, this is a formal conclusion. This is not a formal conclusion. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Marshal, I've made a formal request. I didn't get that call. May I? In an important matter... You want me to talk to you about nurses, too? You're welcome. One nurse. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u69	Ladies and gentlemen! In the House today is a day where anniversaries are worth celebrating. We were talking about Józef Piłsudski, we were talking about Anders. It's an informal conclusion. But it's also the anniversary of the death of a nurse, an important social worker, for years underrated, but still in her hands... Irena Sendlerov, who saved many lives, also died on May 12th. I would ask the High House to celebrate this great figure, the socialist, the activist of the Polish Socialist Party. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u70	Thank you very much. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the second reading of the bill. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm... Objection. I'll give you a reason. Yes, you're welcome. What do you expect?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u71	I'm justifying my objection. Dear Marshal, Honourable Members of the Sejm of the Republic! Abandoned Government! Regulation of discussion time on a matter as crucial as the electoral law in force in the Republic of Poland, an attempt to process this law, traditionally during this term, for rympał, an attempt to reduce the role of the Sejm, the highest authority of the legislative authority in the Republic of Poland, the role of facade, decoration is a bad trend, a bad idea. Please withdraw from these evil, harmful not only ad hoc, but also prospective solutions and do not regulate discussion time. I propose that there be no time limit (the bell) and no question limit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u72	Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mrs Mirosław Stachowiak-Rózecka on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. But there are formal proposals. Sit down there, sir. But the marshal asked if there was any objection. There was an objection. Objection. Please vote on it. We're not voting now. Sit still there. No, no, objection. When are we going to vote on this in the next term? But he did object. But, Marshal... Member, please. Hey, but come on, fellas, come on, come on, come on. There'll be votes, we'll vote. If there's an objection, you vote. The marshal said if I didn't hear any objection. There was an objection. There was an objection. Please vote. Okay, three and a half minutes to perform. Objection! Now you may object. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Would you like to quote me? We'll quote, of course. Member, please. Mr. Marshal, you're acting illegally, you're breaking the law. I'm glad you're legit. And you, together and in agreement, with Mr Marshal, have exercised a stronger right. Sure. Sit still, or I'll punish you with the rule of law. You're interfering with the proceedings. Have a seat. The vote is to be made, Marshal. It's your duty. Member, please. Three and a half minutes to perform.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u73	Marshal, how much time do I have? Three and a half minutes. Vote, vote. There should be a vote. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to begin by thanking you for the part of the work that we have already done. You have accused us that there is no compromise. I would like to point out that I think we already have it to some extent. You wanted to postpone the election, we are responsible for upholding the Constitution. We believe that it is our duty to allow Poles to participate in the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland, and with all our power we try to do so together with you, for which I thank you because your comments, demands and amendments have been noteworthy. I hope that in further work we will indeed have a chance to renegotiate them and talk about them and discuss them. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club also tabled amendments. Mr. Marshal, by the end of the second reading, we will make these amendments to you. I, on the other hand, also on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, apply to join the third reading of the Parliamentary draft law on special rules for the organisation of the general elections of the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility of voting in correspondence, print No 368, without referring to the committee... No corrections. ...the amendments and proposals submitted to this project after the service of their Members. This proposal I am making, the amendments are now also, until the second reading, we will provide. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The opposition will be too, we'll give you a heads-up to vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u74	Thank you very much. Now Mr Boris Budka, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I mean, nothing's changed. You continue to do not only from this House, but from the whole Polish circus. You can't make a simple bill. You report it yesterday, today you report an autocorrection, at second reading you submit amendments, and you want to proceed immediately to third reading. I congratulate you on this approach to dialogue. It's not like there's even work on the committee. For God's sake, you're offering another farce. What's more, you don't know what you're talking about, because suddenly Minister Szumowski is questioning this bill of yours. You have to decide if you're lying when you say there's an epidemic threat or if you're lying when you say it can be arranged. Ladies and gentlemen! I forgot one thing at first reading. Well, I wanted to thank the local government very warmly, to thank all these uncles, mayors, presidents who weren't scared of you, didn't want to act illegally, because thanks to them, thanks to their firm attitude and failure to join this dictatorship, tens of millions of people in Poland did not leak their personal data illegally. Because you tried to extort voters' data with the hands of the Polish Post without any legal basis. Today you're offering another farce. We say, "I'm checking." We want to talk to you, we want to work on good solutions in the electoral code, but not the specialty that's being filed and passed within 24 hours, because you guys are always gonna ruin something. We want these changes to be in the electoral law because we are in Poland. In Poland, there is a Code of Election, not a speciality. You want to turn Poland into a state of emergency, a special state, but that's not the point. The idea is to ensure safe and fair elections in accordance with the Constitution. And that's our goal. We succeeded, thanks to the fact that we spoke to Jarosław Gowin, too, to move these elections. You're saying it was an obstruction that the Senate blocked. No, good conversations with Jarosław Gowin and what we agreed on allowed your president to throw out the idea that the election was due in May. But why are we doing this? We're not looking at political business. That's what we're different from you guys. We speak clearly: elections must be fair and safe. We can bear the highest price, but more important than the ad hoc political goal is that Poles can go to the elections and we will have free and fair elections. You offer, ladies and gentlemen, a farce. You propose laws written on your knees, extraordinary laws that give nothing to Poles. Today we say, "I'm checking." We say, "Let's sit down and talk." Tomorrow we're supposed to meet with all the clubs and parliamentary circles, but so what if tomorrow we're supposed to talk about something you guys are gonna accept? No corrections, unless with your own. This is not a form of dialogue. You've shut down the Sejm, you've made a farce out of it, and now you're making a farce out of a bill that's supposed to make it look like a legitimate election. We call again: we are ready to adopt good solutions together, but in Poland there is a Code of Election, not a specialty. One more important thing. You're replacing Minister Sasin with Marshal Witek, and it's the electoral code that sets the timeline. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And everything that's connected to the election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u77	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As I said a few dozen minutes ago, today we are on a special day, but we are also in an extremely special situation: we are under a wall. We are all against the wall, Poland is against the wall. Two days ago, elections were not held and no one is able to answer the question of who organized these elections, who called off these elections, what will be the future of this sacred right, which belongs to every citizen and every citizen, that is, voting rights. Tomorrow is indeed the day when we can talk without precedent, we can say, in a group and coalition, and opposition, about where we are, where we are, where we are, talk about potential solutions. But the solutions that are proposed in this law - some of them - must at least raise doubts if they do not give rise to quite strong criticism. I ignore the fact that we are dealing with electoral regulations, while the six-month deadline before the elections will not be preserved, there is no emergency committee. Today we hear there will be knee pushing, second, third reading. Some people are in a hurry, this legislative pendolino is moving faster and faster. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to a number of provisions. Art. 20. You can't ignore that with silence. In this draft law art. 20 de facto legalizes certain lawlessness that has taken place. Minister Sasin and Prime Minister Morawiecki issued some dispositions without a legal basis, spent tens of millions of zlotys on printing cards and electoral packages and no one wants to take responsibility for it. This rule legalizes their lawlessness. Art. 14. I'm sending you to a detailed reading of this article, but with all due respect to the Marshal's office, we have here the opening of Pandora's can. Juggling with electoral terms, the possibility of abruptly moving only after obtaining the opinion of the PKW, which does not bind to changes in different electoral terms. The Act is loaded with delegations to issue regulations, and these regulations are neither visible nor audible in the case of this project. However, I would like to see what will happen in these regulations. Three-man electoral committees. This is, after all, the fundamental principle of conducting elections: transparency and pluralism in electoral committees. It is highly doubtful that the three-member electoral commission will guarantee transparency and guarantee pluralism. What if everyone is recommended from one election committee? The left makes a number of amendments and we depend on them to discuss this bill further. But I call on everyone again: tomorrow is this moment, a round table, let's sit at this table (the bell) and talk about the future of elections in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u79	Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The first reading, which took place a few hours ago, showed that this project was quite far from perfect, contrary to what Professor Czarnek is in charge here. There's still a lot ahead of us to consider it a good project. First thing, Mr applicant. You say that solutions are being introduced that are similar to those adopted in the case of accelerated parliamentary elections, and that is why the marshal does not impose any time frame on you to arrange these elections. So I want to tell you, if you prove that this analogy is appropriate here, that art. 195 The electoral code clearly imposes a time frame on the Marshal of the Sejm when the Sejm will adopt a resolution on self-solving, indicating exactly a maximum of 45 days for such elections to be ordered. This is where you leave a complete gap. Mr President, this is not good. And that's what I'm saying in the middle of a discussion. This is not an attack on you or your environment, I'm just saying this in the course of a normal, substantive discussion. That's one thing. We also argued at first reading on these compositions of the district committees. If, Mr President, we are talking about raising standards and not lowering standards, then I prefer that the judge be a member of the District Election Commission and not just a member of it. If we raise standards, the judge should, he must be a member of this squad. And finally. If you believe your club colleague, Minister Szumowski, who advised against traditional elections in the next two years - we hear that he is going through some accelerated evolution in recent hours and is already starting to change his mind, but change his mind It's a common condition with you - let's think about how to bring about a voting procedure that will guarantee maximum security. You are accusing us that the solution to a two-day vote is unconstitutional. One recently proposed date for your presidential election was Saturday 23 May. Suddenly, respect for the Constitutional Court and the Constitution is an obstacle. Of course, we will report this as an amendment, but if you very much agree that this is not good because it did not work out for you, we are giving, Mr President, the honourable majority of the Sejm, an extension of the activities of the circuit committees. It's June, July, when we're dealing with a very long day. Maybe we should agree that these committees should act or extend significantly their actions, so that they do not act from time to time. 6, or maybe from 5, maybe. From 4 to 23 this work led to the fact that many voters in queues or regional electoral committees did not actually accumulate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Is there an amendment? It's not here yet, but if it's necessary, it will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u80	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me not to comment on what just happened on your side of the marshal. I'll just get to the bottom of it when it comes to the project itself. Well, the Confederation is making seven amendments. These are specific amendments, these are substantive amendments. I don't have much time, so I'm not going to discuss everyone in detail, but I'm going to discuss them very briefly. Since we are going with the spirit of time, the first amendments will be so that the vote itself can be made in electronic form. Let's get closer to e-voting. Our amendments, the first and the second, are specific about this. In this case, maybe the Ministry of Digitalization will be able to prove itself, maybe the vice ministers will do something interesting. We'll see. We're talking about the third amendment. Our third amendment will also cover electoral material. Let's agree, many committees currently have no equal opportunities. What kind of budget does it have, for example? President Duda's committee, and the smaller one they have, are quite different scales. That is why we propose to compensate for these disparities. For election packages that would be prepared, electoral committees could report, bring their electoral material, the model of which would be set by the electoral commission. That's third. Fourth thing. The Committee would say that... I'm sorry. Financial resources. The electoral committees will have a problem with them at this point. Those committees that have already been set up, which have had a chance to take part in the elections on 10 May, can, in fact, still be burdened with the fact that people are paying money there. We propose that there should be continuity in payments so that there is no breach between 9 May and the date of the notification that you propose. We also say in the sixth amendment that it cannot be so that there are only three people on the electoral committee. It's definitely not enough. There are three reasons. Firstly, safety, secondly, the quality of the election committee itself's work, thirdly, the efficiency of the election committee's work. Three people aren't enough, this job probably won't be done properly. And I'm done, one last thing. Public television and all other media should once again hold a debate. Thank you. This is where I make my amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u83	I will invite you to the microphone, Mr. President of the Confederation of Jacob Kulesza, who holds the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are essential, ladies and gentlemen. 30 seconds. Mr. Marshal! You're going so openly illegal, it's only fair to assume that there may have been signs of hypoxia associated with this masquerade you've been practicing here in the last few weeks. This is an optimistic scenario for you. Please, tutoring in the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm - Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u84	Please, Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u85	Ladies and gentlemen! I am surprised that you have not used the extra 1.5 minutes that you have. We've got five minutes. I've got one and a half minutes... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Thank you very much. ...expressions. Mr. Marshal, of course, said he was shortening himself, but art. 180 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm - I do not know if this is a copy of your Marshal - says that he can, first of all, shorten the speaking time of the Sejm Marshal, and you are not a Marshal of the Sejm... 20 Members have joined the questions. You are the first question asked by Marek Suski, the Law and Justice Club. Mr President, please step out of the podium. I've still got... You don't even have a minute to perform. Mr... But it's only the malice of your vice-marshal, who respectfully has not only the rules of the Sejm, but also the good manners. Good morning, Mr. Chairman. I've still got... Mr. Speaker! I would like to point out to you that you are interfering with the deliberations of the Sejm and the proceedings of the Sejm. For the first time. There you go, Art. 180. The current Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, please read them to yourself. Mr. Speaker! On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I call you to order. Courage. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! Mr Suski broke the health minister's order, came without a mask. But there was no one else there.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u86	You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One minute to question. I'm closing the list of questions. May I? You're welcome. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the rapporteur a question because it is indeed easy to accuse the government of bad intentions, while at the same time saying that correspondence voting is a bad thing and propose a classic vote. The government, the Law and Justice Club, in this situation has proposed a vote that guarantees citizens safety as much as possible. I would like to ask the rapporteur what security provisions are contained in this law, in accordance with Minister Szumowski's guidelines. And the other thing. This is already the case for the functioning and technical side of the committee's work, because those who volunteered to take part in committees... Not all clubs have filed reports, but that's their problem. What will the continuation look like? Will these requests that have been received be respected and under what rules... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u88	Thank you, sir. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the last few weeks, we have seen constant attempts to demolish the electoral code. This is all for the approval of the man who signs everything you give him. He's doing it between TikTok and a failed attempt to rap. On Saturday, he signed a bill that will be repealed in its entirety today. Can you compromise yourself more? Don't you feel like you've humiliated that president of yours again? According to the Sasin Act, he is to replace Marshal Witek. Therefore, I would like to ask why there is no electoral calendar in the bill. Look, you can't be trusted. Everything must be described in the bill because you cheat every day. On Thursday you sign the agreement, and on Saturday you're already wondering how to break it. That's who you are because that's PiS and his leader, who you're hostages to. [[Applause]] I was talking about ducky-phobia. If you get better, you'll really feel better.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u90	Member Beata Maciejewska, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After the crazy farce of recent months in the organisation of elections by the PiS, you have proposed a project that can be described as an illustration of hull democracy. In this project, you propose to replace multiple bodies with multiple bodies and even single bodies. You're proposing that the electoral committees be three people. You are proposing that only three days will be enough to protest the Supreme Court. And most importantly, you're proposing that a person who has only been responsible for setting the election date today be responsible for everything. Your Marshal Witek, who is a man of PiS, can do anything by the letter of the law today. Maybe shorten the signing period to three days, maybe extend it any way she wants. In this hull democracy... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u92	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Szramka, Club of the Polish Coalition. You're welcome. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me tell you that at today's meeting of the Polish Parliamentary Club, which took place before this meeting of the Sejm, we talked about the fact that it would be worth reaching an agreement and closing this case. On the other hand, we see that this is impossible. What you're doing is unacceptable. Here - full support for colleagues from the Confederation, because what you are talking about is, of course, true: Mr. Marshal violated the seriousness of the Sejm, violated the rules. You don't want to talk. You say you want to, but you don't do it, you don't send the project back to the committee where we could discuss it in substance, you shorten the speaking time of Members, so that even at that time it's difficult to ask any questions, and we probably wouldn't get the answers anyway. Finally become responsible for our country. Stop acting like this. Allow us to work together on this bill. Let's take responsibility together. Because the fact that you're gonna ruin it, we all know. But together, we can take responsibility... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u94	Thank you, sir. You took a minute, but you didn't have time to ask a question. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u95	The question to the absent minister, the prime minister, the whole crew. Since the reasons why you have maintained for the past weeks and months that it is not possible to hold elections in routine mode, so to speak, in reality, with voting in polling stations, as I understand it, apparently stopped, are no longer there, then what are the reasons why public life in Poland, public space, other premises, not necessarily electoral, would still be closed? What is the legal basis and what is the scientific basis for such administrative decisions, whose continuation still does not hesitate to threaten the nation Minister Szumowski?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u96	Thank you. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u97	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question from Poles, from voters, and this question is addressed to you by Professor Przemysław Czarnek, a constitutionalist who, in the case of this law, represents applicants. Mr. Speaker! Does this bill contain mechanisms that make Poland independent of the further obstruction of different environments, which led to the fact that these elections did not take place on 10 May? It's a PiS. Does this project contain such mechanisms? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, once again, instead of dealing with the economic, health and social crisis, we are dealing with the constitutional crisis, the democratic crisis that you have caused, the government of the United Right. A crisis that could be avoided if you listened to the voice of the opposition who called on you to declare a natural disaster for two months. But there's no failure. But you guys preferred to go to the election in May in your shoe. And you have chosen the worst organizer under the sun, Minister Sasin. The election was not organized, on the way several times he broke the law, spent millions of zlotys, and the only thing left of it was the new President of Polish Post and a few tons of paper. Where are those packages? 33 million electoral packages. Who's watching them now? Why are there 10% of them? More than voters and voters? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u100	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! He's out of the question that may 10th was supposed to be elections, and those elections weren't, and we're... Vote. ...perhaps the only country in the European Union where such a situation took place. I would like to remind you that before 1989, however, these elections took place within the deadlines which were due to the existing rules. [[Applause]] That's what happened. Today in this Chamber we have just a constitutional problem and we have a legal problem, what to do next, and I have the impression that Poles and Poles really expect us to solve this problem somehow. Therefore, I have two questions. First question: Did you really consult with the State Election Commission on this bill? Because there are many things and many tasks for the State Election Commission. And second question: Have you analysed the financial impact, especially in terms of local governments? Because it is known that this law imposes a lot of responsibilities on local governments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] For example, in connection with the preservation of this safety, therefore these are costs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u102	Thank you, sir. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Club of the Polish Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u103	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Two days after the date of the election burned, and the date of the next election is covered with mystery like a sharp shadow of fog, as the classic said. What a classic, what a classic... What is this really caused? Self-governments can't prepare. Art. 5 says it's all about local governments. Local governments will find out again for a few days, two days before the date when they have to issue packages that they have to do so. Minister Sasin said two days before the election that Poczta Polska is ready to hold elections. Will this be the only explanation today if we fail to make these choices again, that the hostile self-governments have failed? That's your method. Mr Kaczynskofobia is mentioned here. I don't think that's the kind of ducky we have here... No, that's what I heard. ...but you're doing everything you can to get us a PiS-advance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u104	Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! You've talked a lot about Poland in ruins, but I see you've gone from words to actions. The mess, the chaos and the circus - that's what you should call what you've done. How else do you call it that two private Members meet and decide how the state institutions will behave, what will the Supreme Court do? It's not even a comedy anymore. This is some kind of drama. For the past few weeks, instead of dealing with the crisis, you've been fighting for power, instead of helping health care, employees and employers, you've spent tens of millions of dollars printing ballots and urns. Answer the question: How many million zlotys have you spent on preparing elections, pseudo-elections that did not take place on May 10? Sooner or later, the president will be elected. Those votes will have to be counted, and then settled for your incompetence... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Bravo, bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u106	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 18 provides: The district electoral commission shall consist of between 4 and 10 members appointed from among those who have a higher education degree in law and who have the right to exercise that function. Who's gonna decide if they're giving this guarantee? A local party hangover? How about a district guy? Art. 19 says: The minimum number composition of the regional electoral commission is 3 members. One person goes to dinner, one person goes to the bathroom, one person goes to the bathroom, who's gonna be what? She faked the election? You like to insult people and lie. And art. 20. How much longer are we going to write laws to protect us from criminal liability? We have the Szumowski scandal, we have the Sasin and Morawiecki scandal. It's not like we can write the law like that. Those people have to be held accountable. There's a coronavirus, there's business to be done, and you have to deal with those who did this business. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u108	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This debate has been going on for several hours and I think that all Poles expect someone from PiS - maybe the minister who is busy at the moment - to come out here and apologize to all Poles for the embarrassment that took place on 10 May, for the tens of millions of zlotys that you spent not of your money, but of your pocket, without any mode. Mr. Speaker! Perhaps you will answer whether someone will finally bear political responsibility for this scandal and for the disgrace that took place on 10 May? Will anyone bear political responsibility but also legal responsibility for the situation that has taken place? What are you preparing for the Poles right now? You're replacing Sasin with Marshal Witek. Why do you want to juggle time, and why don't you want to vote online? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u110	Mr Konrad Frysztak, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, like fear, it's to God. Once again, you make mistakes, and local governments are responsible. The first responsibility is legal responsibility for those who have passed the electoral records illegally, the second - today you are ordering the local governments under the bill only to hold elections, but once again you do not give them any money. You wrote in the bill that it was necessary to equip the committees with security measures, but you don't give them any extra money for it. But you have already burned a lot of money for Sasin and Morawiecki's cards through the Polish Post Office and PWPW, on the ballot box. Oh, just like this one. Such as this urn, which stands in the Polish Post Office, and the post office claims that it is not her urn. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the question. Is it for printing out election cards without a bill, which is illegal... No mode. ...will give back the postman from Wołomin, Jacek Sasin, or the banker from Wrocław, or Mateusz Morawiecki? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And an additional question. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u112	Mr President, you have run out of time. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition Club. Can you correct it, Marshal? I'd like to say something. I want one too. Anyone would. After the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On May 10th, the presidential elections were to take place in our country. The situation related to the epidemic as well as the political situation was so dynamic that by last Thursday it was not certain that the elections would take place. Meanwhile, Minister Jacek Sasin, who was responsible for organising the elections, did not know for sure that the elections would take place on the scheduled date, but started the voting card printing machine. His actions led to the fact that the Treasury was exposed to multimillion-dollar losses, and as you know, voting cards are not the only cost. Therefore, I ask you to answer the questions: How much did the presidential elections cost us so far? What is the cost of printing useless ballots? I would also like to inform you whether the Prime Minister of the Polish Government intends to draw consequences for his subordinate Minister Sasin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u114	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Most people didn't want an envelope election, as we talked about. Today this has been called hysteria by the Member. You've prepared a bill that's supposed to be special. Special because it is supposed to give Poles a sense of security and integrity. But that's not the case, the bill doesn't guarantee that, as the article says. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5... [[Game in the O.R.]] If I may ask, Member, not to disturb you, okay? What, you can't hear yourself? No, I can't hear you, Member. Time, waste of time. Art. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 does not guarantee security, this is an article that talks about the delivery of electoral packages. As far as honesty is concerned, Art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 concerning the time limit for protests. And finally, it's a matter of special rules. What are special rules if there is no possibility to vote online? We have the ability to cast remote votes, voters - no. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill doesn't meet the expectations... [[9The Vice-Marshal disables the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, applause)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar, Club of the Civic Coalition. Mr. Marshal, for once you might not interrupt me. But we need to be in time, Madam Member. It's a big play, but it's needed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions. First question: Will the authors of the project allow the possibility of collecting signatures of support for candidates using the electronic platform gov.pl? About 5 million Poles use this device, and it is well prepared. It seems to me that this possibility is worth allowing, all the more so since you are honoring the possibility of reporting the electronic willingness to vote in correspondence. Second question. What's the rush? Why are we putting it this way for pneumonia? Changes in electoral law must be made at least six months before the elections - Minister Duda, Andrzej Duda. The period of three months between the amendment of the Code and the election itself is too short - President Kaczyński, Lech Kaczyński. Yesterday he vanishes in carelessness, tomorrow, today, now, now - it is President Duda, only from yesterday. It's called devaluation of opinions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u118	Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very serious matter - said a Member of Law and Justice from this speaker, after which she applied for an immediate transition to second reading. [[Applause]] She limited the discussion and showed her attitude to the voters. It's a consequence. Only in your case doesn't really surprise anyone anymore. The problem is, this is all happening in an extremely important case. This bill is the foundation of the state system. This law is a number of detailed arrangements concerning the choice of the most important person in the country under extreme conditions, de facto in the state of emergency described in the Constitution, which Prime Minister Morawiecki cynically does not want to call. And I have a very specific question. Who did you consult with? What recognized and qualified lawyers have pinned a stamp on your quickly written solutions? A list of names, science centers, legal associations, please. Only, Mr. Marshal, a list of specific names... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u120	Thank you very much. Did the Member come forward with a corrigendum? What will the Member straighten out? Your speech? No, I'm gonna straighten out what's going on here. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u121	Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I wanted to say a few words about Wołomin because I hear all the time that Minister Jacek Sasin is a postman from Wołomin. That's not true. Minister Sasin lives in Teeth, and please don't insult Wołomin. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] There is a beautiful museum of Zofia and Wacław Nałkowski in Volomin, so I would ask you to remember that. I've spent many years of my life there and I'd like to stand up for this city. Minister Sasin is from Tooth and boasts about it. So it's not Woolmint, it's Teeth. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u122	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Łukasz Schreiber now has the floor of the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers. Would you like to perform, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two words. Firstly, on behalf of the Government, I have given this intention to the applicant - and this is also the response to the appeal which some of you have made - to ensure that it is the government that provides the means of protection. A friend of Szumowski's. If the applicants wish to submit such an idea, it will be carried out. There is no need to burden self - government officials with a task that, as we hear it, may give rise to difficulties. The Minister of Health also submitted his recommendations on the bill - there is nothing strange about it, the project is a parliamentary project - after reading it we also submitted a request to take into account the comments of the Minister of Health. As I understand it, today, an article in the newspaper is enough - let's agree that it is moderately credible - that you throw the sharpest accusations out of this stand. Well, it's a very curiosity situation, but now, I get it, that's what we're all supposed to get used to. High Izbo! I wonder and try to understand what some of you really want. It's not gonna work. Indeed, this may not work, because when the idea was initially presented that these elections should be traditional on May 10, you said that it was impossible that people would die because of these elections. When the idea of protecting the health and life of Poles as much as possible was proposed, the correspondence elections, when we did not know how the pandemic was going to develop, we did not know that we would be able to flatten this disease curve in such a way, you said that this was a very bad project, because now these elections would not be fair. When the State Election Commission referred to the relevant provisions, you said that the resolution was wrong. Now that there's a proposal on the table, only better worked out than the one you've proposed... No, no. No, it's not. ...which takes into account the conditions under which we are today, you are against this country as well. So I actually see a problem here. On the other hand, I would like to respond to one further allegation that the government had given some funds to the organisation of elections and that was all the government did and that was what entrepreneurs were left to themselves. Well, High Izbo, that's absolutely not true. I've given earlier what the condition is, I can tell you what the condition is for yesterday, because it's an update every day. Where are the ballots? As far as the anti-crisis shield is concerned, if we are talking about the cash itself, which went to Polish entrepreneurs, it is 5 billion, as far as the financial shield is concerned - 15 billion, so a total of 20 billion is in Polish entrepreneurs' accounts. And I'm asking you to talk about it. You, at least some of you, have also worked on these projects, and I don't think it's worth doing anything like that. So, High Izbo, I hope you will be able to accept a few more good amendments, and I really encourage: less venom, less personal tours, and more attention may be paid to specific records. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I have a question. Was there a free ski course for these masks?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u124	Mr Przemysław Czarnek will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Only this time, please tell me the truth. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm starting by answering a question or even, say, a charge or a doubt that you're not gonna get any answers. Well, I have questions here, and I will answer them. Only selectively. But I'm gonna start with the sasinophobia that showed up here somewhere in this room. Don't throw Mr Sasin out of nowhere, you don't have to throw him out. Minister Sasin is first and foremost a Member of the Lublin Voivodeship. We are very proud of this as inhabitants of Lublin Voivodeship. So that, ladies and gentlemen, this is just a remark to the Minister... to Mr Gawkowski. But I would also like to say that this is the invitation of President Gawkowski to the meeting tomorrow. We are happy to take part in it because the legislative process, as it is written here, continues and will continue. The legislative process consists of work in the Sejm and then work in the Senate. That was quick. All of this can actually still be very nicely hooked up. I see, at least in the case of a part of the country, I prefer cooperation. Unfortunately, it is so, ladies and gentlemen, that the further into the forest, the more trees. While it was quite interesting at this first reading and I thanked you for the substantive questions and statements, in this second reading unfortunately it is necessary to say that unfortunately the traditional show, acting, has already begun, but it is all the more reassuring because Poles see it and your acting cannot stand it. Substantively. Substantially, ladies and gentlemen, and about obligations towards the Republic of Poland, because that is why we are all here, not so that we can practice acting here on this platform, because nobody wants to hear it. People are really laughing, but they're laughing at this acting. [[Applause]] Then don't listen. Say hi to the rap guy. It's just a note to all of this. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the questions and comments, because I refer to them, concerned district and regional electoral committees. After all, it is clearly stated that the minimum membership of the regional electoral commission is 3 people. Let me stress: minimal. We want all committees to be fully filled, which is why there is a provision in this draft law that updates the nominations for the members of the regional electoral committees that have already been submitted for the election of 10 May. If you add your candidacy to your election committees, there could be nine people everywhere. Who told you that the committees were supposed to be three? We, ladies and gentlemen, are proposing to adopt this provision because it is because of your obstruction, as a result of your obstruction and the failure to notify candidates to the regional electoral committees - because it was you who did not report these candidates - that could actually happen in Poland where the committees would be decompleted. And the election must take place at the work of the complete regional electoral committees. It's not like we want them to be three. We want nine people. Just, for God's sake, report the candidates. [[Applause]] Don't call the name in vain. Law and Justice reported almost 40,000. candidates for regional electoral committees. Do you know how many have reported the Civic Platform? A few hundred. A few hundred candidates and 40,000. candidates. And the Left reported... If you really want to take part in these elections and control them, as it is written in the electoral code - this social factor is really here - then report it to the nice God, candidates. And if you continue to use obstruction and do not submit candidates... That is why we have introduced this provision for a minimum of three people. The committees have to work. So this is also the answer to Mrs Barbara Bartus' question, who asked whether there are mechanisms that prevent obstruction. Yeah, that's one of those mechanisms. The point is that by torpedoing the work of the regional committees by not notifying candidates to them, you should not torpedo the presidential election once again. That's one of those factors. Regional election committees. I repeat my words again. In district committees, we need experienced electoral judges the most. It's a really great line. But here's the problem again. You know the problem is. And that problem was inspired by someone somewhere. All Poland knows that it is inspired. The judge's environment has forced judges who sit in district election committees to resign to torpedo the formation of district electoral committees again. And the election takes place if there are committees and district and circuit boards. That is why we have introduced this provision, sir, so that in the event of such obstructions - and we know that there has been... The judges under the influence of the judge's environment, which was negative for the current authority, ordered those judges from the district election committees to resign. Now we have the right rule, it's about legal education with a guarantee of proper performance of the responsibilities of the district election commission, which doesn't mean there's not gonna be any judges there. I repeat once again: It is best for judges to be there with great experience, because they are from explaining all the doubts that arise in the voting process of the regional electoral committees. That is the role of the District Election Commissions. We're lowering standards. But if we hadn't, Mr President, there could have been a situation once again where you would have led to the obstruction of the presidential elections through this... [[♪ The bell ♪]] We? I'm talking about the entire opposition environment. Thank you very much, sir. ...because there wouldn't be any judges. And, ladies and gentlemen... Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u126	Since, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote following the delivery of the table of amendments to the Members. Objection. Do I hear an objection? Yes, objection. Yes, sir. We will therefore proceed to the vote on this issue in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 20. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 minutes 40 hours 20 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. Before proceeding with the examination of item 30 of the agenda, we shall examine the quorum. I would very much like to ask all Members present here, outside the plenary room and those participating in the sitting remotely, to press any button to verify the quorum. You're welcome. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's gonna work in a minute. There's a card made, so we'll wait a minute. You can press the button now, ladies and gentlemen. Please press any button. There are 453 Members in the session. I'm declaring a quorum. There are formal requests. As the first Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. One minute. Something's got to be done here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, sure. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for a break and a convent of the Seniors' Convention because we process several hours during the day over a draft law which will be crucial for the security of Poland, so that the Polish system of law will order and above all restore the celebration of democracy, which today turned into a celebration of laughter. So if we can, Your Marshal, order a recess tomorrow, carry out additional consultations, assess this political situation, which will allow the Senate to follow a rapid procedure, following the model of all political parties, to go beyond political divisions to agree, then we will all return here in political consensus. It is better to deal with this in the Polish Parliament than to lead to a situation where we will return and we will tell you that elections are badly organized again. In 2020, 10 May was supposed to be election day, and it turned out to be a day without elections. Let's not do the entertainment thing again. Please on behalf of the Left: let's take a break and get back to it on Thursday morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u128	Thank you, sir. It's already been a break. You wanted half an hour, there was a two-hour break. But we will, of course, vote on this proposal. First, however, Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation, the formal proposal - we will see.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u129	God's happiness in the late hours. Honourable Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Formal application pursuant to Article. 184 Rules of Procedure, change the way in which the vote is held. Give us a chance to support some of your own amendments to this project, do not block them and, above all, remain in line with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which in turn in the article. 50, your Marshal, clearly justifies this and states that these amendments should first be put to the vote, the adoption or rejection of which will, as a consequence, determine the means of voting on other amendments. So don't rape, don't rape so little. You're doing bigger things here, you're doing bigger things, so do this vote (the bell) in agreement... Thank you, sir. ...with such a small, modest act of law... Thank you, sir. ...what are the rules of the Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u130	This is the decision of the applicants making these amendments, whether they want to block them. Your Marshal... Mr President, this is the decision of the applicant. We already know that Marshal Terlecki does not know the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, so perhaps more applicants have not read. Please, Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Coalition. Well, the conclusion is... Here you go, formal motion. We have here a copy of the Rules of Procedure, and I will recommend to you. I do too, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u131	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to refer this proposal to the committee. This project is a project of political rank, which is fundamental to electoral rights in the Republic of Poland, for all citizens. Our predecessors predicted a rank for codes and a special procedure. You're deceiving the rules, which means you're deceiving yourself and the High House, pretending it's just a law, not a code law, and you're working on it for hours. But this shows that last night you submitted a draft, today you submitted a few pages of amendments to this project and you still tabled several amendments to the second reading in the evening. It shows it's written on your knee. This is one big hole, this is legislative fraud. If this is the law in the Republic of Poland, the law of constitutional, political rank, then the lowly fallen Republic. And you put your hand in it. How much you're blowing up our country... Thank you, sir. Indeed, procedural rights are crucial and this project should be examined in committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u132	I would like to remind you, Mr President, that we have decided that we are proceeding immediately on the bill. I'd like to put together... No, sir. But the High House... We have voted on this, sir. We didn't vote, Marshal. We'll be voting in a minute. Don't argue. We didn't vote on it. Mr President, please don't argue with me. There was no vote on this, Your Marshal, and this project should be consulted. There will be one more vote on the third point. This project should be consulted, sent to experts. There is no opinion of the State Election Commission, no opinion of the Supreme Court, no opinion of all legal bodies that should have the right to do so. But the Supreme Court, sir, is the matter of the contrition committee, and that is why there is no time. Sit down, sir. We'll proceed with the vote. There was a request for a break. I will put this motion to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 222 for, 234 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. But there are other formal conclusions. We continue to consider item 30 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special rules for the organisation of universal elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility to vote in correspondence. The Sejm carried out its first reading and decided to proceed immediately to the second reading of the bill during which amendments were tabled. In the light of the proposal to proceed with the vote, following the service to the ladies and gentlemen of the table of amendments, objections were raised. We will settle this matter in the vote. We shall proceed to the vote on the motion to proceed to the vote after delivery of the table of amendments. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has sent the draft to the committee in accordance with the proposal submitted. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of voting after the table of amendments has been served, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 237 was for, against - 221, no one held back. The Sejm has accepted the motion. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen for prints No 368 and No 368-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the total vote on the amendments is based on the applicant's request. In the first amendment to Article. 1 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House... But there was a formal conclusion about it, Your Marshal. Mr... There was a formal conclusion. Mr President, you have heard that the applicant decides whether he wants to block the amendments or not. No, the applicant may not decide to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Mr President, please don't argue with me. Have a seat. It's non-regular. It's illegal. We'll proceed with the vote. This is my formal conclusion. Why won't your marshal vote? Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. It's illegal, illegal. The applicant may not change the rules of procedure as he likes. Yeah, it is. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're hypoxic. Take that mask off. Mr... 458 Members voted. 213 - for, 236 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 applicants shall propose to add a new wording to paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 174 - for, 283 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the examination of amendments 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 19, 20, 22, 23, 28, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 46 and 47. We will vote on these amendments together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 5, 12, 26 and 29. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 234 - for, 193 - against, 31 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendment 5 has become unobtrusive. In the 10th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 3a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 175 - for, 283 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 12 has become unobtrusive. In the 14th amendment to the article. 5 applicants shall propose an amendment to paragraph. 8. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 223 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. Paragraph 7 1 applicants propose to add point 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 196 for, 261 against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 7a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 194 - for, 263 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 9a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 224 - for, 234 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 13. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 25 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 137 - for, 247 - against, 74 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment to the article. 13 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 9. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 194 - for, 234 - against, 30 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendment 26 has become unobtrusive. In the 27th amendment to Article. 14 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 225 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The 29th amendment has become unobtrusive. In the 32nd amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 14a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 213 - for, 245 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 36th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 17. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 223 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 37th amendment to the article. 19 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. Its adoption will render the 38th amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 184 - for, 233 - against, 41 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 38th amendment to Article. 19 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 224 - for, 235 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 39th amendment to Article. 19 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 39th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 223 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 40th amendment to the article. 19 The applicant shall propose that paragraph be deleted. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 40th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 214 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 41st amendment, applicants propose to add a new article after Article. 19. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 207 - for, 236 - against, 14 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 42nd amendment, applicants propose to add a new article after Article. 19. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 42nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 442 for, 15 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 43rd amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 20. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 43rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? But, Your Marshal, how is it not all? You're breaking the rules. You broke the rules when you asked questions, and now it was meant to be different. If you cry in your next term that there are rules, we'll remind you who introduced them. So democratic. From tomorrow, there's gonna be a run for the Senate. I remember Niesiołowski. To this level, you're equal to that slime at the bottom. With a formal motion, Your Marshal, on behalf of the club. It's in writing. 457 Members voted. 211 - for, 246 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 44th amendment, applicants propose to add a new article after Article. 21. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 196 for, 233 against, 28 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 45th amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 21a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 213 - for, 245 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Formal conclusion, Mr Boris Budka. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u133	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With a formal request to postpone the sitting until 14 May. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, you have shown that you cannot learn from your mistakes. What you've presented is again a 24-hour cycle of passing the rules and adopting them against the declarations that we're going to do something together. You rejected all the amendments that were supposed to guarantee even a shadow of the integrity of the rules you presented. Once again, you've shown that you haven't learned from your mistakes, which means you're proposing another possibility not to make those choices. Unfortunately, you didn't take the chance that we would work together in the Seym. There was no committee meeting, there was no discussion, you went from one reading to another. And tomorrow you'll resent it. What? That the Senate won't use this mode. Because the Senate will fix your approach to parliamentarianism. He'll work hard, listen to experts, [[Joy in the Chamber]] He'll listen to the Supreme Court. And he's gonna file a motion for rejection. You've screwed up, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u134	Thank you very much, sir, for this proposal. Please, Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left, a formal proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u135	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I also make a formal request to postpone the sitting of the Sejm to the next Thursday, which is until 14 May. It's a stand-up. That you still have a sense of humor at this hour. Mr. Mark, the time is still young. Tomorrow is an important event. Tomorrow we'll all meet and talk about what happened on Sunday, what didn't happen on Sunday, and how we can fix together what happened to the Republic and our fellow countrymen. Mrs. Marshal! What we did today is a replay of entertainment. Today we discussed the system bill, actually the law, which is one of the most important laws governing social life. It is not possible for two, three or four hours to discuss such important matters and to move on to third reading, to vote on the whole. I invite you again tomorrow to talk calmly and tell each other everything that has not yet been said. I'm making such a formal motion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u136	Thank you very much. On the contrary, Your Marshal. There you go, counterclaim. May 10th.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is a specialty, because it is passed in an absolutely unusual situation, in a situation to which the obstruction of opposition in the Senate has led. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Tell me what you've done. Not work, obstruction of opposition in the Senate, because the Senate didn't work 30 days, and obstruction in many local governments. That is why it is a special act, because we have to carry out a constitutional obligation towards the state, conduct elections for the President of the Republic of Poland. And one more thing. We really don't want to meet tomorrow to tell you again what you've done so as not to lead to a vote on May 10th. We want to talk fairly. The legislative process is ongoing. If you want me to tell you what you did to block the vote on May 10th, don't count on our long presence tomorrow at the meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-12-sejm-11-6.u138	Thank you very much. A formal request was made for the adjournment of the sitting. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 218 - for, 238 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in prints No 368 and 368-A, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? We'll have to get the MP's statement. Your Marshal, will Thursday be the last day of this meeting? If your marshal doesn't know, who knows? 458 Members voted. 244 for, 137 against, 77 abstentions. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law on special rules governing the organisation of general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020 with the possibility to vote in correspondence. Shame! Shame! This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 12 May this year. The meeting shall be adjourned until 14 May 2020 at the latest. 10. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 19]]
