ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the 19th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Mariusz Gromka and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Mariusz Gromko in room 217. Senators of the Secretaries, please take your designated seats. High Senate, the Scouts have come to us today to pass on the tradition of We have Bethlehem's Light of Peace. Hello, Boy Scouts. And please take the floor of the deputy head of the Polish Scouting Association, Mr. Scout Charles Gzyl.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u2	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! For the thirtyth time, Bethlehem's Light of Peace came to Poland. The fire that the Scouts set on fire in the Cave of the Nativity of the Lord in Bethlehem, followed by the Scout's relay to Europe. We picked them up on Sunday on the border bridge on Lysa Polana from Slovak Scouts and carry them on. It is a tradition that Bethlehem's light of peace reaches places that are important to our homeland during the pre-Christmas period. This morning, we gave the Bethlehem School Peace Light to teachers who teach remote lessons in Warsaw Żoliborz. A few minutes later, we were at an ambulance station to pass it on to rescuers and all those who are helping in the course of a pandemic of coronavirus, which makes this year and these holidays special. And now we are with this light of peace, the light of good news, the light of hope, also in the High House, in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, we would like to convey to you from Boy Scouts and Scouts the wish that you in this House of Reflection wisely make the right that, through your service to the Republic of Poland, you should hope that next year will be a year of peace in our homeland and that this light of Bethlehem, when standing on Christmas tables, will bring reconciliation. Mr. Marshal, we're handing over the lantern to you with this light, as well as your wishes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u3	Thank you very much. We accept this wonderful gift, which has already become a beautiful tradition. On behalf of all the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, thank you very much to the Boy Scouts for giving us the light of peace. And in response to your appeal, I also declare on behalf of all of us that we will do everything to make the House of the Supreme Polish Parliament the right to be the best, the smartest, and above all serving the citizens of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Deputy Head of the Polish Scouting Association Karol Gzyl: Thank you again.]] Have a seat. Dear Senators, in connection with the pandemic, after consulting the Senior Convention, I have decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217 shall be asked to enroll in questions and to speak in a discussion with the Senators of the Secretaries. I would like to remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Jerzy Wcisła and in Senator Mariusz Gromko's room 217. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. Do all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? I hope so. And to your senators participating in the meeting remotely, I ask you to make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and that your cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please turn on the razor. I remind the senators who use the app that they start voting, so-called. polling in the Webex system causes a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you that you need to press 2 times the pass button or the Submit button after you cast your vote in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Do we have all the votes cast? Please state the results of the vote. 91 senators voted. [[Voting No 1]] And so many senators are currently attending the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, 50 years ago on the Coast, in Gdańsk, Gdynia, Szczecin and Elbląg, there were strikes and protests of workers. The authorities of the Polish People's Republic decided to brutally deal with the protesters. According to official records, 45 people were murdered and over 1,000 were injured. In turn 39 years ago, on 13 December, martial law was introduced in Poland. 9 miners were murdered in the mine on 16 December. They were the first victims of martial law. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence all the victims of those events. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, death takes away more senators. On 5 December 2020, Mieczysław Maziarz, Senator of the 6th term of office, died, member of the Health Committee. On 11 December 2020, Andrzej Tomaszewicz, Senator of the First term, died, who was a member of the Committee on Culture, Media, Science and National Education. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the dead senators. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. High Senate, I inform you that on 6 October 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers briefed the Senate on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019. It is contained in print No 229. The Senate Marshal addressed this report to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting on 27 October 2020 took note of this document and that the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions did the same on 9 December. I would also like to inform you that on 17 November 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate about the functioning of the Centres and Social Integration Clubs operating under the Act of 13 June 2003 on Social Employment for the 2018-2020 period. It is contained in print No 261. On 24 November 2020, the Senate Marshal sent this information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. Commissions at meetings on 15 December They've read this information. On 17 November 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers sent a document to the Senate on the situation of older people in Poland for 2019. This document is contained in print No 260. On 24 November, the Senate Marshal sent information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the committee took note of this document at its meeting on 15 December. I would like to inform you that the Sejm adopted part of the Senate's amendments at its 21st meeting on 28 November 2020: to the Act amending the Act on corporation tax and certain other laws; to the Act amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. At the same meeting, on 28 November of this year, the Sejm rejected the Senate resolution rejecting the Act amending the Act amending certain laws in relation to the counter-crisis situation related to the occurrence of COVID-19. I would like to inform you that the Sejm adopted part of the Senate's amendments at its twenty-second meeting on 9 December this year: to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, and to certain other laws; to the Law on the profession of pharmacist; to the Act amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. At the same meeting, on 10 December, the Sejm adopted all the amendments of the Senate: to the Act amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws; to the Act amending the Law on the proceedings in matters relating to public aid; to the Act amending the Act on the National School of Judgment and the Public Prosecutor's Office. And that's all there is to it. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 16th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 17th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If none of your senators raise any objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The draft agenda, which was sent to the State by electronic means, contained the following items: the Act amending the Law on Road Traffic Law and the Act amending the Act on the Protection of Persons and Property and the Act on Military Gendarmerie and Military Ordering Authorities. In view of the failure of the Sejm to adopt these laws, these items were not included in the draft agenda for approval by the Senate. I would remind you that the draft law, to be discussed in item 15 of the agenda, was introduced by the Council of Ministers as an urgent matter. In this case, the time limit laid down in Article shall not apply. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. It also received a request for a transfer to the next meeting of the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Regional Government and the Act on the Local Government of the Voivodship. If I don't hear an objection, I'll take it. I propose that points two, four, seven to fifteen and points seventeen to twenty of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than those laid down in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. In view of the numerous requests made by the Ministry, I propose that the order of consideration of the points be changed: the fifth point, i.e. Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws and consider it as point two; point seven, i.e. Act amending the Act of the Teacher Card and certain other laws and consider it as a third point; point 10, i.e. Act amending the Act on the Fund for Roads and certain other laws and consider it as the fourth point; the eleventh point, i.e. Act amending the Public Road Act and certain other laws and consider it as the fifth point; the twelfth point, i.e. Act amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in airports of public use and consider it as point six; point nineteenth, i.e. the ratification of the agreement on the expiry of the bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020. and consider it as point seven; point 20, and that's an interesting title, i.e. Act on the termination of the Commercial and Navigational Agreement between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofji on 29 April 1925 I mean, signed as a makeshifter. And consider it point eight. If I do not hear an objection, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposal to change this order. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on civil status and consider it as a point of the 25th agenda; second reading of the draft law amending the Social Insurance Fund Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act and the Individual Income Tax Act and considering it as a point of the 20th agenda; second reading of the draft law amending the Local Government Income Act and considering it as a point of the twenty-seventh agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committee and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Senator Bosacki, then Mr. Senator Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to ask the High House to add to the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on education law, the law on childcare of children under the age of 3 and the Act on basic health care. This is senate print number 196. I would like to stress that today, the Legislative Commission has given a positive opinion on the draft law, with no votes against. All the more reason for my motion to be accepted by the High House. [[Voice from the room: Print is gone. It'll be all right if it's printed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u5	Yeah, it's obvious. Here the administration points out that we are not ready to print yet, but we have three days to consider it. Since the committee's decision was practically unanimous, if I do not hear the votes against, I will propose that this item be included on the agenda. [[Voice from the room: We can't do this right now.]] When will this S-letter print be ready? [[Voice from the room: Probably today.]] Sure or sure? But there's a subtle difference here. [[Voice from the room: I'm sure.]] I'm sure. So we'll bring it in tonight. Okay. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I request that the item be placed on the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 80th anniversary of the liquidation of the Polish minority organization in the Third Reich. I would like to remind you that the High Chamber at its previous sitting took this off the agenda, although this item was initially to be drawn up, as a result of such and not another argument by the applicants concerning the photo of this project. I also remind you that on 28 September, i.e. more than 2 months ago, the Legislative Commission in a clear way, i.e. unanimously, she voted in favour of this draft resolution. The project has been under construction for several months now. I think it is time that, at least on the date of the year, the intentions of the applicants are reflected both in the title and in the content. And the last thing I need to know is that you're a marshal. Mr Marshal, just before the vote, promised that this item would be on the agenda as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u7	Thank you very much, senator. I'm not backing out of my promise. But the senator is, so to speak, guilty to himself because... you sent me a statement by name, in which you wrote that you expect to refer to what Polish organizations protested, etc., and in which you accuse me of giving in to some unidentified German option, you also use the phrase: the approved Polish organization was in favour. I'm preparing an answer to this statement. I've got 30 days for that, and you're gonna get that answer. Then the matter will be referred to the Legislative Commission, together with the Marshal of the Senate's reply, and if the committee maintains its opinion, this item will be placed on the agenda. If you hadn't made that statement that was against me, I don't want to call it offensive. Inelegant, this point would already be introduced today. I presented this matter to the Senior Convention and it was understood. So that until we have an explanation on this matter and an answer to your statement, this project is removed. Are you satisfied with this, or do you want to vote, Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u8	Mr. Marshal, I must admit, this is the first time I've met such an answer, with such an argument. Well, I'm gonna leave it up to the High House, those who are watching us, and possibly those who will read the transcript later. If the actions of post factum are to influence the facts or the way of voting, the earlier... The fact that, as I say, they do not deal with the principle of causality, generally speaking. And back to the point, I'm going to say yes. The work of us with this resolution cannot, by any chance, be completed within the framework of the legislative process. Various reasons for this are given: and this is a lack of government position I've been quoting this position. And these differing views of the Polish community... Well, in the course of the committee's work, there was a representative of the Polish community, she was active in this work, by the way, and then thanked for the adoption, of course, by the committee, of the draft resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, any reasons can be given, e.g. related to the declaration submitted. But these are two different modes, Mr. Marshal, really. If you guys keep your eyes closed like this... I speak to those people who do not realize what the purpose of such a resolution is. But in order for this to be discussed, we need to put this on the agenda. The effect is that we're really blocking even the possibility of discussing this issue, I'm not saying that we're taking a resolution anymore. After all, everyone can express their views during the vote at the end of the consideration of such a point. So much for my comment. I ask the senators once again to vote on the possibility of putting this item on the agenda of the sitting and considering it as one of the last, in the draft resolution on December '70. I ask you to vote on this motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u9	Dear Senator, you will receive copies of the Polish community's writings against the procedure of this resolution, as you oblige me to do in your statement. Well, you know... I don't want to raise any discussion, but I'm surprised you're referring to an organization headed by a person listed in the IPN file as the secretary of the PZPR Voivodeship Committee in Legnica or an employee, some first secretary of the PZPR factory cell. I understand he's one of those good communists. Unlike those you consider to be bad communists. I am deeply opposed to this form of provisions of this resolution, but this is my opinion. The formal cause... The Senior Convention has accepted the transfer of this suspension until it has responded to the statement. That's a formal reason. Therefore, for the second time, I ask: do you hold your motion and want to vote, or will you withdraw your motion? I'm not backing out of my promise. If we complete the process of clarifying this matter, the draft resolution will be brought to the table.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u10	I'm holding my motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u11	In the light of the senator's request, I'm in charge of the vote. Who is in favour of putting a draft resolution on Göring's law or Göring's laws on the agenda? Who's against it? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One person from the remote... See if all the buttons are pressed. Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 44 were in favour, 50 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 19th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the first round of voting will take place today around 9:00 p.m., so that some of the laws can return to the Sejm and be reworked in the Sejm and then enter into force on 1 January 2021. I would also like to inform you that tomorrow we will begin the discussion of the item: the second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the 50th anniversary of December '70 events. If legislative proposals are not tabled, the vote will take place immediately after consideration of this point. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. In addition, I would like to inform you that following the report on the project on vaccinations for children, the agenda may be supplemented by a second reading of the project, as we have already explained. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on Specific Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021. The text of the act is contained in print No 263 and the report of the committee In print No 263 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! On 10 December, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance examined the draft around-the-budget law and, in fact, the law on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2021. Ladies and gentlemen, what was the work of the Committee on Budget and Finance? First of all, we listened to the information of the Minister of Finance, Minister Sebastian Skuza, present at today's meeting, and then the representative of the Legislative Office presented his information to us on the bill, and finally we had a discussion and we concluded with the proposals, we accepted the proposals for amendments. What does this around budget bill contain? An important part of this law is primarily devoted to the rewards and benefits of the public finance sector. And as it was in the previous year or in previous years, remuneration in the public finance sector is frozen, as a general rule. In addition, the provisions of the Act regulate the issue of prize funds in the public finance sector. It is proposed here to introduce regulations that change the rules on these awards. It is proposed, for example, not to create a separate, sector-specific fund of prizes, and instead it is possible for managers of units to introduce prizes for their particular achievements within the framework of their resources. The law also applies to teachers to some extent, and it is also quite an important part of this law. The funds for the professional improvement of teachers, methodological advice centres, teachers' prizes, are also frozen for the share-based social fund and social benefits are frozen at the level of those in force in 2020. The Act also contains regulations to take account of expenditure incurred by local government units in order to carry out tasks related to the prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and loss of income. The law is quite extensive, it contains more than 90 articles. Of course, I will not talk about all of them, I will give you a few more examples of the proposals that are included in the bill. There is, among others, a provision for the waiver of the State Treasury's claims on a loan granted to the State Waters of Poland, and there is also a provision providing for the remission of the loan granted to the Solidarity Fund from the Demographic Reserve Fund. It is proposed to introduce the possibility to contribute to the Solidarity Fund from the state budget. The Act also proposes to allow the transfer of treasury securities to the Fund. The Polish Development Fund can also obtain fiscal securities for the increase of share capital. In a similar way, higher education institutions can be supplied with state-owned securities, and they can also go to higher education institutions. What was the discussion on the bill? Well, first of all, we discussed the comments of the Legislative Bureau. And here we have first of all drawn attention to the inadmissibility of introducing additional provisions at second reading, which took place in the case of this law. But this is an action that unfortunately repeats quite often in the case of recent laws, such solutions take place, i.e.. additional provisions are introduced in the Seym without three readings. This concerned the issue of financing the Polish Development Fund's treasury securities. What else was the debate about? In particular, salaries, wages freezes, prize fund freezes, social benefits freezes. The opinions of trade unions were quoted, negative opinions were received from the National Trade Unions Agreement and from the National Commission of the NSZZ.Solidarity. During the discussion, a representative of the Polish Teachers Association also made comments, even in the form of proposals for amendments. This concerned the elimination of the freezing of funds for the professional improvement of teachers, for prizes, for the organisation of methodological advice, for the elimination of the freezing of the write-down to the occupational social benefit fund, as well as for the increase for teachers from 1 March, with the possibility of applying this provision from 1 January next year. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance did not take over these amendments because we did not have detailed calculations of the financial consequences of the proposed solutions at the time. As far as other issues are concerned, the extra-budget financing of expenditure has been highlighted. This is a matter that obscures the budget, and we discussed it too. This is precisely the case for funds that are transferred in the form of treasury securities, inter alia. to higher education. The Minister explained that the schools were pleased that these funds would be received, that there was no school that wasn't satisfied with it. Well, it's not surprising, after all, it's additional resources. However, in the committee, we found that universities aren't more than to deal with brokerage matters, tax matters of securities. Yeah, and these jobs are being assigned to these schools right now. This non-budget financing of expenditure also applies, for example. The Reprivatization Fund and the Polish Development Fund. So these are the expenses that are being pushed out of the budget. This is indeed what we have been paying attention to during the work of the committee. The issue of Parliament's control over spending is quite important. In many cases, this check has been omitted somewhere, and we have drawn attention to this during the committee's work. This was the case, for example. appropriations for the Solidarity Fund. Here there may be a payment from the state budget, but the bill does not even include the amount for this purpose. With regard to the creation of reserves for the prevention of natural disasters, the government believes that parliamentary control is not necessary here either. Some doubts and emotions were also raised about the amount of special reserves. Namely, there is a provision in the Act that removes the 5% threshold of the amount of funds that are allocated to the special-purpose reserves. The Minister claimed that this 5% threshold was slightly exceeded and therefore there is no big problem here. From other interesting issues that have been discussed, I will also mention the amount of vaccine expenditure. The budget includes the amount of PLN 405 million, so much higher than so far. We've been wondering how this applies to COVID vaccines. Well, these aren't the drugs that were scheduled for covidovsky vaccines. So we asked what means these vaccines would be funded. There's no clear answer here, maybe we'll get it today. It will most likely be funds from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. Finally, a few words about the amendments that the committee is proposing to the High Senate. We have accepted 5 amendments, 3 of which concern Parliament's control of the budget. The first one concerns Article. 65. According to this article, the Minister of Defence may ask the Minister responsible for public finances to transfer expenditure between departments. We believe that the committee, the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, should give an opinion on this proposal. The same is true in Article. 74 as regards the revenue of the Solidarity Fund. This should not be done here either without the opinion of the Sejm Committee responsible for budget matters. Finally, the third amendment, which concerns the prevention of natural disasters. Here too, we expect the Committee on Public Finances of the Sejm to be able to comment on this. The Commission proposes that these 3 amendments be voted by the Senate in one block. They're actually about the same problem. The fourth amendment is the deletion of Article. 76. It concerns the Reprivatisation Fund. Here is the provision that the Reprivatisation Fund may receive funds in the form of treasury securities. These measures, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, may be intended, among others. for the acquisition by the State Treasury of shares or shares in companies. We do not agree to such a provision and we propose that the Senate accept the committee's proposal and delete this point. The last amendment concerns local government units. There are records in the Act that indicate that the expenditure of local government units is somewhat relaxed. The proposal is that in the article. 78 narrow the concept of income to tax revenue. These are all the amendments proposed by the committee. The Commission proposes that the High Senate adopt them. That's all I wanted to say about it. If there are any questions, of course I'm at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Finance, Minister Sebastian Skuza. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u14	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I have the honour to present the Law of 19 November 2020 on specific arrangements for the implementation of the Budget Law for 2021, which aims to enable the implementation of the State's budgetary policy. Such a around budget law That's her common name. It appears almost every year together with a draft budget law. The solutions contained in it are already reflected in the amounts planned in the draft budget law for 2021, which was adopted by the Council of Ministers and is currently being processed at the level of the Sejm. As regards the regulations proposed by the government in the government project and in the Act already adopted on 19 November, as the rapporteur has already said, they mainly concern issues relating to salaries financed by the State budget for 2021. In general, state budget units, including ministries and offices, are expected to maintain salaries at the level of remuneration in the current year. Therefore, the Around Budget Act 2021 contains provisions that would freeze remuneration in public finance entities and entities and bodies referred to in Article. 139 Public Finance Act. These are games that are not subject to the Council of Ministers, e.g. President's Office, Sejm Office, Senate Office, Constitutional Tribunal, NIK, State Labour Inspection, Institute of National Remembrance. In addition, in view of the principle of social justice, it is proposed to maintain at 2020 levels, inter alia. the remuneration of judges and prosecutors, including those at rest, and the maximum remuneration of persons listed in the Act on the remuneration of persons managing certain legal entities, as well as of persons employed in companies which are subject to the Act on the formation of remuneration rules for persons managing certain companies. The Act also contains regulations that amend the rules on the award of discretionary prizes. In 2021, it is proposed to replace the created prize fund, resulting from the various industry rules, to maintain the possibility of awarding prizes for specific achievements or behaviour exclusively from remuneration resources which have not been spent for objective reasons, such as. parental leave, vacations, layoffs. These actions will contribute to reducing the increase in state budget expenditure in 2021. It is also envisaged to maintain the basis for the calculation of the social benefit fund at a level similar to that of the current year, i.e. the basis for the calculation would be values in 2018. These solutions would apply to teachers, pensioners, soldiers and officers of uniformed services and their families, as well as to civil servants charged with an occupational welfare fund. Another element of the proposed act is the remission of the loan granted to the Solidarity Fund and to the Polish Waters. Here I draw attention to the fact that the loan related to the Solidarity Fund, corresponding to the equivalent of this loan, the amount of PLN 8 billion 700 million already in 2019 has been repaid from the savings of the Social Insurance Fund to the Demographic Reserve Fund. In addition, the possibility of transfer of treasury securities is planned for the provision of some institutions, such as: the Reprivatisation Fund 3 billion, the Polish Development Fund 6 billion 600 million, and universities, the winners of the programme of excellence of the research university about PLN 0.5 billion. As I have already mentioned, the Around Budget Act is a legal act which enables the implementation of State expenditure in the next financial year, and it is therefore important that it enters into force on 1 January 2021. Here I would like to thank you very much for today's sitting and for the declaration of today's vote so that it can be discussed by the Sejm in the old financial year. With this in mind, I ask the High House to vote on the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u15	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki has come forward remotely. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the question concerns Amendment No 4 tabled by the committee. The amendment concerns the deletion of Article. 76 and thus deprived of the possibility to transfer PLN 3 billion to the Reprivatisation Fund. I have a question for the Minister: what was the allocation of these funds and will this fund be able to carry out its tasks in 2021 in connection with the amendment that deletes these funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u17	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The recapitalisation of the Reprivatisation Fund was due to a very objective situation, such that already in 2020 it should start its operational activities of the Capital Investment Fund, whose main source of funding was to be transferred dividends. Unfortunately, in 2020, as we know, these sources of funding will not be provided and it is therefore necessary to extend the possibilities of the Reprivatisation Fund. I would like to point out that the periodic rules already allow this fund to acquire shares or shares. This is only about extending this and creating a buffer for the tasks carried out by this fund also in relation to reprivatisation issues. I would like to point out here that the provision of the Reprivatisation Fund with privatisation revenues is currently at a very low level. Next year, the revenues of this fund, without the proceeds from bonds, are estimated at only about PLN 20 million. So the intention of this provision And I would also like to draw attention to the optional transfer of bonds, which is to create a buffer and a tool for the Council of Ministers in terms of activities to mitigate certain pandemic risks. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u19	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u20	Mrs Marshal, Minister, the first question concerns the Reprivatization Fund. I don't remember, but maybe the Minister will remember whether the Reprivatisation Fund has already spent funds to support other tasks, not related to reprivatization, e.g. Powering other funds. That's the first question. And second question. Minister, aside from the issue of savings in the social benefit fund and prizes, training etc. I'm talking about raises... If, in the whole sphere mentioned by the Minister, the increases are frozen, how much savings are we talking about? That's the second question. And the third question. Minister, I do not recall, but maybe the Minister would mention some information on how to supply various types of tasks with securities, whether universities or the Polish Development Fund, will have an impact on the budget in the following years. If the Minister doesn't have an answer for this, I'd ask for it in writing. My point is to show how this year's commitments, i.e. from 2020... how the commitments planned in this around budget law for 2021 will influence or influence the size of the budget on the part of the burden in the future. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u21	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u22	Dear Marshal! High Senate! As far as the Reprivatisation Fund is concerned, my response is positive. Yes, this fund has already carried out tasks other than reprivatisation. E.g. from this fund, a contribution to the Industrial Development Agency was made from the Reprivatisation Fund in 2020 to cover the share capital. Here, as I said, also mentioned provisions on the possibility of financing, acquisition of shares or shares are already included in the Act. And it's just a little extension. As regards increases, I would point out that here we are simply freezing wages at the 2020 level. It's hard to tell what the raises would be. To answer such a question, you could say this: if there were a 5% increase planned And they wouldn't be done, that would be saving. Now we're at the 2020 level. In terms of savings and e.g. I can say that in terms of simply not creating a prize fund, these savings in the budgetary sphere are estimated at about PLN 694 million. As regards the ability to supply bonds, I would like to point out that this is not a new tool. Such a tool was already in the 1990s as restructuring bonds for the banking sector. The return to this was in 2009, by allowing the capital injection of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego with bonds. And I think that here Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego is the biggest beneficiary of such a capital injection in bonds. When it comes to bonds for universities, I would like to draw attention and repeat that this is a very well-accepted solution for universities. Not long ago, I had a discussion with the rector of the Gdańsk Medical University, who had already asked whether the second tranche of payout for the research initiative would take place in bonds, because this is a very good financing tool. I would point out that the bonds transferred are zero coupon bonds, i.e. interest on them is not paid, only at the time of redemption the bonds are bought out at nominal value. Of course, all these bonds in nominal value enter into sovereign public debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u23	Thank you very much. There's no more questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Thank you.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, I volunteered. I don't know if you haven't made it...]] Still, yeah? Are you still Senator Blackbay? [[Yes, if you don't mind.]] Does Senator Blackbay want to ask you another question? [[Yes.]] Here you go. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm changing my words and I'd like to say this: if I could make a raise... Do you have such a simulation? If the increase were to be made in the whole area that the Minister presented, what would be the value of it? What amount would be needed in the budget to implement these increases within 4 Is that what the Minister said? I'm not talking about savings, I'm replacing the word "savings" with the "hypothetical amount" needed to realize possible increases if they were. That's one question. And the second question, Minister, is what I think is in the article. 74, concerning the Polish Development Fund and the amount of PLN 6.6 billion. Could you tell the Minister a few words about the purpose of this? Is it just the fund's power, or does the fund already have specific tasks that it would like to carry out for this amount?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u25	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u26	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As a matter of fact, I can quickly say that if you were to raise in such compartments as the senator was talking about, I think it would cost about PLN 5 billion. As far as the Polish Development Fund is concerned, I would like to point out that it is an institution which is currently on the front line of the fight against the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic in terms of supporting entrepreneurs. The actions of the subsequent shields are continued. As far as the amounts of funds we are talking about are concerned, they are intended to be mainly devoted to the development of the housing programme through funding through investment fund institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u27	Thank you very much. No further questions. I therefore thank the Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Richard Śvilski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Several times the name of the Reprivatisation Fund has been mentioned while working on this item, but I think it is worthwhile that we should present or recall the definition of the Reprivatisation Fund at the very beginning. This is a special-purpose fund to pay damages resulting from judgments and court settlements and administrative decisions issued in connection with the unlawful nationalisation of property. The Minister used the word... I will not quote, but there has been a word indicating the relationship with COVID, i.e. that it is such a possibility that this around budget bill that we are working on today, the solutions set out in this act will result in the effects of the COVID pandemic being somehow neutralized. And there's the art. 76 of this bill. The Minister also just said that there is a sum of PLN 3 billion written in this bill. And what does it turn out to be? Unforgivably, because I am convinced that this fact did not come out as intended by the applicants, it turned out that the government through the Reprivatization Fund, through this instrument wants inter alia. purchase of shares in the company Okay, here's the In a company that is, which must be clearly and clearly said, in a sense also a company of the Treasury, because the shareholders of this creation are also PGE, and KGHM, and Tauron, and Enea, and it is a company called PGE EJ 1. Do you know what this company was called for? This company was set up to implement an investment called the construction of a nuclear power plant. So the question is: what effect and impact does this have on COVID? Why the Ministry of Finance in such I'll call it Is it a rude way to use the situation to buy out shares in this company? You'd like to say, what's a gingerbread for a windmill? Of course, no one answered that question. Let me remind you that this company, until today, may be wrong here, has spent about PLN 500 million. For what purpose does the State, the Polish Government, want to buy shares in this company? I don't know that. What does this have to do with COVID? We don't know that either. Why am I addressing the Minister? Is that how you want to do business like this? What's the point? What are you trying to do about it? Here there is another question, which is also important: what is the state policy, for example, in relation to the issue of the construction of a nuclear power plant? Some of us live in Pomerania. I don't know if you know that for many, many years there hasn't really been any investment movement in potential places to be the location of a built, built nuclear power plant. Investment processes are frozen. The generals in those areas and local government officials do not know what will happen to them and what will happen to them in this matter. It's a pity you're here. - I'm addressing the government's representatives. You are so ridiculously introducing such solutions. Why should we sanction them? Why do you treat us like this? You think we can't even read something you've hidden in this bill? Oh, no, it's not.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u29	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Paul Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u30	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the around budget bill, a law that will actually enable the budget to be implemented next year, but we can consider whether such a around budget bill is needed at all. In my opinion, no, not in the situation we're in right now. After all, the Around Budget Act are ad hoc solutions to enable the implementation of the Budgetary Act. If our law were stable, if our law were good, we wouldn't have to introduce such accidental solutions. But it is what it is, and unfortunately the around budget bill is also an opportunity to introduce various solutions which, in my opinion, obscure the budget, bring chaos into the budget. I'm talking about what happens in these cases is creative accounting. I remember that the Minister once called these activities financial engineering. Whatever you call it, but that certainly doesn't make the budget more transparent. What makes this budget not transparent? First of all, I would talk about these unexploded expenses. Theirs is not in this law that we are discussing, but these unexpired expenses can be realized for the first time by November next year. The Minister said there could be about 10 billion unexploded expenses. I'm expecting it. Yeah, I think so. That there could be a lot, a lot more. This certainly does not affect budget transparency either. But also budget transparency is not affected by spending outside the budget. I am thinking about spending on higher education or on the Reprivatisation Fund, on expenditure financed by treasury securities. This certainly does not serve the transparency of the budget and this budget is certainly more difficult to decipher. The special provisions I mentioned as the rapporteur's senator. In 2021 these reserves are supposed to be 32 billion zlotys. So far, the spending limit on special reserves has been 5%. expenditure of the budget. There's a lot, a lot more. Of course, the Minister has convinced us here that this does not include expenditure from European funds, so this is, it seems, 5,41%. But, Minister, I think if it were only 5,41%, we wouldn't throw away the 5%. from the Public Finance Act. I don't know if, after all, these special reserves, among others. The natural disaster reserve... doesn't all this raise this expenditure far, far more than 5%. Transfer of loans and subsequent redemption of loans. Polish Waters, Solidarity Fund... This also does not affect clarity, transparency of the budget. There are more tasks to be carried out by some institutions, and not quite so. E.g. CEPiK, Central Vehicle and Driver Records. This, of course, is a fund that has a very large amount of money in its account, and I have long called for these funds to be managed in some way. Only that it is intended for a specific purpose. Drivers make up this fund. In the meantime, it is now intended to be used for other purposes, among others. for the computerization of the state. Yeah, it's okay, but why this fund? And as I say, such examples can be multiplied. In addition, this lack of parliamentary control over certain expenditures. The elimination of the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance, in my view, is completely unjustified. The issue of financing the Armed Forces 2.2% ... Here, too, the records are so... We're talking about flexible use of defense expenses, but also housing expenses of the Military Property Agency, and civilian students at military universities... This is all to be financed by these funds, and I don't think that's the way it's supposed to be. I am not specifically opposed to solutions so that we finance such tasks with these resources, because in my opinion the means for defence are used extremely poorly. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, there are also positive entries in this law, e.g. There is an increase in expenditure on post-graduate internships for doctors and dentists, more money can be spent on the Large Family Charter, although this will be primarily self-government funds. So that these positive expenses are also a few. But in general, I would like to say that I think it would be better if there were no need to introduce around budget laws before any budget law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u32	You can only see the eyes, Mrs. Marshal, but I'm smiling. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few words in connection with the around budget bill, but also in the spirit that Senator Arndt was talking about. Minister, you said on the committee... I couldn't discuss it, because I was in the meeting remotely, there was a poor connection, so now I'm going to allow myself a few comments. We've known each other a little while, and we know that the Minister is open to criticism, not criticism, but suggestions, and I would like it to be perceived as such. Of course, good criticism is also a suggestion, and that is why, Minister, I will make some such comments, I hope, to think and 4 amendments. Minister, you spoke at the meeting of the budget committee about the budget. I'll quote you. We have nothing to hide. Well, that's obvious. Only I would like, Minister, that you have nothing to hide in this credo, that you have nothing to hide, the second part of the sentence has developed this sentence: because we have nothing to hide, all expenses, not only budgeted, but widely understood taxpayers' money, public expenditure as a whole, we will show in discussions on the around budget bill. It would be such a milestone, Minister, because I personally believe that such a form of budget law has ended its life. When considering such a law, if there is to be a around budget law, we should be talking about a strategy on the whole of the finances. And within this whole thing, it should be to mark all the elements that are contained directly in the bill, but also those of Senator Arndt talking about it here. That are being carried out, as we call it today, for various kinds of funds. And that would be the implementation of this complex sentence: we have nothing to hide and we show it. And a few examples. First, it's a question of funds. Well, for example. We finance 13th and 14th pensions from the Solidarity Fund. It doesn't go into the indicators. Now we're gonna die. We have the indicators we have. But it's the same money, Minister. Why such a dwarf road? We said it on the budget, we're saying it now. The simpler the way money is, the more transparent, cheaper and more readable and easier to control and evaluate in the discussion whether we spend these funds well, whether we spend them in a structured and effective way. Treasury securities. Minister, you said the universities were happy. Of course they are, after all, everyone has to be or should be happy when they get the securities. Only when you talk to them on the side, it's... well, it's actually a new assignment. And I'm having second thoughts about whether high school should do this. Higher education is to be carried out by future generations, not by raising money as part of the start-up of securities. So here again we could use readability, i.e. that the State Treasury does so, agrees with schools that the fund for such and such a task is such and that it settles the task. And this is simpler, cheaper and easier in parliamentary control. Minister, the question of freezing wages. If we... but here's the thing: we get a project like this. We're freezing wages. I understand that the situation is what it is, so it's a movement that we accept with great understanding. But in the framework of this comprehensive around budget law, which would talk about strategy, we should also talk about other aspects, whether this is the only way. The Prime Minister spoke in his speech when he defended your Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński that we are at the forefront in terms of employment and low unemployment. As for the numbers, I agree, but you have to read the second sentence. This low unemployment and the high number of newly employed people are concentrated in 2 sections, one of which includes an increase in employment in the wider administration of 103 000 people. So since we employ 103 000 more people, this probably means more than PLN 5 billion in costs compared to the freezing that the Minister said here about, that we will not implement increases. We should discuss such issues when adopting a around-the-budgetary law, which will be a financial strategy for the government and not just talk about individual parts of these laws. The individual fragments should be based on comprehensive strategies. And now also a few words about education. You are here, Minister, Deputy Minister of Education, in my beloved field. Please note, Minister: today in the strategy we should have, in my opinion, three pillars. It is an economy which we support with various types of financial projects within various types of covid funds, the Polish fund... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd ask Senator Kleina... 'Cause it's kind of bothering you. [[Why am I the only one you're paying attention to?]] Well, I know... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I would very much like to ask you not to disturb the person who is now giving the speech.]] [[We're talking about the budget.]] [[We're talking about the budget.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: But please... Gentlemen can always talk somewhere else.]] It really bothers me a little bit. And now I'm going back to education. Minister, we are talking about the fact that today, in the current reality, there should be, in my opinion, three pillars... It is an economy that we support more or less effectively with different types of solutions, more or less appreciated by employers. If we're talking about health care... Because it should be the second pillar. He is also affected by some of the solutions that have been adopted. Maybe everything isn't perfect yet, but that's the way things are. And what do we decide about education? Freezing wages and associated prize funds. This also applies to advice, training, etc. The Minister of Education said this: but there is enough money for training because we have money from the Union. There is such a policy that when we get from the Union, we take national funds. I understand that the EU money system is a support system. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that your education policy leads to the fact that... we already know the first results of TIMSS, the research of an international organisation that evaluates the effectiveness of education. This organization states that in 2019 We've done worse in mathematical and natural thinking. There's been a drop of six or seven. We're in the penultimate place when it comes to whether the students like and want to go to school. Polish teachers are also on the penultimate place in this ranking when it comes to respect or loving what is related to the performance of the teaching function. It shows that this policy is not worth it: we need money, so we're cutting the funding for education. I know you're about to say, but we're giving up. Well, there's a need for a separate discussion about the amount of wages. This shows that the whole system, which we owe to the success of Polish education, since the reform Mrs Zalewska begins to roll down slightly, gently. Well, we fell by six or seven positions after the first period. And I'm betting dollars against walnuts, it's gonna get worse every year. And if you're looking for savings in education, I, Minister, would be happy to point out such savings. Eliminate the entire pawn of curatoria and pedagogical supervision. Take an example from a country called Finland. One of the first steps in the reform there was the elimination of the pedagogical supervision level. Why? Well, today the teacher has access to knowledge and knows what to teach and how to teach. The teacher does not need your inspiration, suggestions that he should teach national content, controlled content. In addition, this system leads to the fact that saving on education is getting worse and worse in international assessments, getting worse and worse in teacher assessments. The atmosphere around Polish education is getting worse, Minister. And that's why before you decide to include such a provision in the budget bill... I would suggest that we start with a substantive discussion on the whole strategy and then talk about specific solutions. Finally, I would also like to say about... if we are to say that the second pillar is the economy, this is the case. It's not just taxes, it's a tax system, which you're still making complicated. Well, you lower taxes, we agree, but you're about to make three or four complications. The Polish tax system is one of the most complex and worst rated systems in Europe. It's one thing, but I'm curious... Because here, in the provisions of the budget bill, there is no mention of it at all. Let's see what's in the budget. One of the problems of the Polish economy is the number of people active. Poland is at one of the last places in terms of the number of active persons. And now I'm talking about this case. There's not a word in the budget bill that this is a direction... But we support the Polish Development Fund, because there is a need. Do we have to cancel the debt of Polish Vodka? We're dying. And as far as these three foundations are concerned, I don't see any understanding. It is neither in education nor in health, nor in the economy, nor in relation to all the elements I am talking about. Well, we have a complicated tax system. What's characteristic? The Polish economy is characterised by the fact that we have more and more inactive people. We are taking the penultimate place in Europe in terms of professional activity, and that is why I am curious whether any movements, records, amounts or actions provided for in the budget for 2021 will be associated with this. And one last thing. After all, the Prime Minister agreed, actually without reservation... I will quote here the title of one article: The European Union is pushing climate pedals harder. Warsaw no longer protests. But what's next? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] Last sentence, Mrs. Marshal. What's next? Therefore, all these elements should be included as strategic actions, Minister, in the around-budget bill. And that should be the result of the small issues that we are discussing here and which we will adopt at this sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u33	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators... [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, now your marshal reminds me... I'd like to make an amendment.]] No, you can't... [[Isn't that right?]] [[Voice from the room: No.]] The discussion is closed. [[Voice from the room: The discussion is already closed.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: No, he mentioned during the debate that he had amendments.]] [[Well, I mentioned I had an amendment. Mrs. Marshal, here's what I'm suggesting: I'll file it, and if the Legal Office's opinion is that I don't... that's why I'm reporting it in this alternative mode.]] [[Voice from the room: Why can't he fold?]] For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. And Senator Leszek Czarnobaj has tabled a legislative proposal in writing. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: I want to discuss...]] Would you like to take a stand with the Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Maciej Kopeć: Yes.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u34	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, education is one of the key elements that we pay attention to. And of course, looking at education, education, spending on it, you have to look through the prism of several elements. First of all, it is. of course, it is a question of education subsidies, which is growing. From 2016 to 2021 this is an increase of PLN 11.5 billion, an increase of 25.5%. Also looking at teachers' salaries since 2018, we can see that there is an increase of 28,5%. Looking at the increase for teachers, let us also remember that this increase starts in the school year, from 1 September 2020. And in the budget for 2021 we have the effects of this increase, which amounts to PLN 1.7 billion. As Senator Czarnobaj said, of course, education is important. Looking at the scale of these expenditures, we can say that the latter, especially related to remote education, related to the situation that took place, amount to an additional PLN 1 billion. This is the case for the "Active Table" programme for the previous years, until 2019, is PLN 163 million, and in 2020 it is PLN 35 million. This is the issue of the National Education Network, the broadband internet that will actually reach every school, and it is also a lot of expenses that occurred within the OSE. This is additionally, as part of one of the programs, 12,000 laptops, as part of another, it's 60,000 tablets that have reached schools. This is PLN 130 million for laptops for foster care children. The important issue that Senator Czarnobaj was talking about, too, is the issue of teacher training. That's 100 million zlotys. And the problem is that these measures are just to make good use of them. It is not a question of the fact that the funds for improving teachers are frozen, both at voivodeship level and at central level, because they are simply sufficient. So we're very happy... I also called on representatives of the Polish Teachers' Association to attend one of the meetings to encourage teachers to participate in these trainings, because the resources are just enough. And here this allegation or the improvement remark is not adequate to the financial situation. This additional support for teachers is not only an increase since 1 September, but it is also an additional 500 PLN, which the teachers of local and non-government schools received to be able to technically support remote teaching. This is a total of 270 million additionally in educational subsidies, because this is really what the educational subsidy has been increased for this purpose. And these are, of course, very different activities that support this also through an integrated education platform. But I'm also talking about this additional support. These are the centers of the IT championship, these are activities within the framework of e-Twinning. There is really a lot of such activities and they concern our education, but they are implemented in different ways. Another point that was mentioned here, which Mr Senator pointed out, is that freezing of other agents. But please also pay attention by looking, for example, at the teachers' prizes and the fund, that these funds are appropriate to the number of applications that are submitted. The issue of prizes is governed by rules, i.e. applications are submitted in accordance with these rules and thus are paid to teachers. As regards the Minister's prize, in 2018 alone there were 534 applications and the 501 prizes. So, as we can see, it's not a question of freezing or taking anything away from anyone, because it's not happening, it's just appropriate to the situation, to the number of applications and their substantive quality. The very important thing that you said to the senator, too, is that it's a matter of the study of TIMSS 2019, which is the International Research of Mathematics and Natural Sciences. Yeah, it's a very important and interesting study and it's definitely worth a closer look. And if we looked closely at him, what would we see in this study? In 2019 54.5% students were students at the age of 6. So this is not a question of the reform of Minister Zalewska, it is a question of the reform of Minister Hall and Minister Szumilas, because we are asking about the reform of six-year-olds in fact. And that's what you need to pay attention to. There has never been such a yearbook of the same age range as in 2019. The age difference between pupils in class IV, in which this age is very important for teaching quality and educational fitness, was one and a half years. So let's look at the situation of teachers in 2019 and earlier. Another issue that concerns this study and which is extremely important This difference in biological age decreased by 33%, by 1/3. So let's pay attention. for the situation we are talking about, and for what it was simply a result, which is what it came from. The next thing that needs to be looked at is when the test was carried out. This is also important because there are different opinions in public space. This study was conducted at the turn of April and May 2019 and by April, since 8 April, there was a teacher strike. If we could get a thorough look at the report from this study and the so-called. context study, so we will note that many teachers have declared that they have not completed part of the programme base until the study. So without looking at these two issues, i.e. for what the individual parts really looked like, the cohorts of this yearbook, and for the moment when the test was carried out... Here, of course, we just have to watch. Not for the reform that was carried out... In fact, the only part of the reform that concerned this year was in Class IV, because in Class I, III, children had actually the same programme basis in 2015 and 2019. The difference was that part of the programming base is implemented in classes V, VI, VII, VIII, simply different is the distributed object of nature and otherwise natural objects. So it is worth looking at, of course it is worth discussing, it is worth wondering. Regarding the latter case, which concerned the supervision of the curators, please note that in this part we still hear questions about how the Minister oversees one case, the other, the third, the next, how the curators supervise this or that, and then the next questions are asked. Without this three-step supervisory system, where the principal directly supervises the school, the school head curator, and the school curator. In fact, it would be difficult to talk about the quality of teaching, the improvement of this quality or the operation of the Minister. So much for such supplementary remarks, in particular the statements of Senator Czarnobaj. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u35	Thank you very much, Minister. In view of the fact that Senator Czarnobaj has withdrawn his legislative proposal, I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held in the voting block today. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 264 and the committee report In print No 264 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 19 November 2020 amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws. On 20 November 2020, the Senate Marshal sent the law to the said committees. The Joint Committee meeting took place on 10 December 2020. After considering the bill, the joint committees ask that the High Senate approve the attached draft resolution. The main objective of the Act is to support local government units in terms of identified problems and improve the situation on the domestic municipal waste management market, in particular: guaranteeing the achievement of the levels of recycling imposed by law on municipalities and preparing for the re-use of municipal waste, reducing the cost of operation and improving municipal waste management systems, and facilitating access to municipal waste treatment facilities. This support is intended to ensure the amendment of 5 laws, including the Cleanliness and Order Law in municipalities, the Waste Act and the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The amendments to the Cleanliness and Order Act in municipalities aim to enable the municipality to achieve certain recycling levels and prepare waste for reuse. Only this year can you use the calculation of these levels by a method which is more profitable for local governments and which will enable the municipalities to avoid penalties, estimated at up to 900 million PLN in the country. Another major amendment to the procedated law concerns the repeal of the Article. 35b and Article 35b 35c Waste Act, which results in a deviation from restrictive solutions related to the 30% limit the thermal transformation of municipal waste and waste resulting from the treatment of such waste. The central list of installations for thermal treatment of waste is removed. It turns out that the 30% limit for the thermal transformation of municipal waste concerns both so-called. incineration plant and cement plant, which makes the limit in Poland formally exceeded and in practice is not processed, for various reasons, such amounts of waste by thermal methods. Another change is to reschedule the start date of the so-called. a recycling confirmation module within the database on products and packaging and on waste management, i.e. BDO of 1 January 2021 as at 1 January 2022 This is linked, according to the designers, with the need to adapt this module to the extended responsibility of the manufacturer, so-called. ROP. As long as this solution does not enter into force, the confirmation module will not be possible. A provision was also introduced to postpone the deadline for the submission of a report by the Voivodship Board on the Voivodship Waste Management Plan for the years 2017 and 2019 to the Sejm of the Voivodship and the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs. The Minister for Climate Affairs shall submit a report on the national waste management plan for these years to the Council of Ministers by 31 October 2021, i.e. 22 months after the end of the reporting period. This law is relatively small because it contains only 8 articles. The bill was not pre-consulted. In view of the urgent nature of the proposed changes to be adopted by the end of 2020, the project was submitted to 37 stakeholders for public consultation and 12 waste institutions. It is about voivodships, marshals of voivodships, voivodship environmental inspectors or regional environmental directors. The time to comment and comment was extremely short because it was only 3 days. However, it must be acknowledged that even in such a short period of time, those concerned were able to organize themselves and send their comments. In view of its scope, the draft law was also sent for an opinion by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government. A public consultation report is attached to this bill. Most comments, since 26, were submitted to the article. 1 point (2) (a) b. It's called the so-called. recycling levels. 17 comments were submitted to Article. 2 laws concerning, briefly speaking, incinerators. The other 48 comments related to the other articles. The draft law also included a draft regulation of the Minister for Climate and Environment on levels of preparation for re-use and recycling of municipal waste, together with justification and impact assessment. The draft law included 78 pages. Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Janusz Pęcherz and Zygmunt Frankiewicz, director of the Office of the Polish Towns Association, and at the same time the Secretary of the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government Andrzej Porawski, as well as a representative of the recycling industry, spoke in a discussion that was really and in a good atmosphere. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski referred to the latest report by NIK concerning a very serious problem concerning hazardous waste from former plants, among others. the Boruta plant in Zgierz, asking if the Ministry provides for any forms of support for local authorities struggling with the need to dispose of hazardous waste in their territory. He also asked if in the case of very large investments, e.g. construction of an incinerator in Olsztyn, where there is a risk of exceeding the time limits for completing the investment, and the plant is built using EU funds, the government sees the possibility of granting aid. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz sees the greatest threat in the implementation of the legislation as a result of the dramatic reduction in the levels of recycling and recovery of municipal waste. It even pointed out that leaving these indicators at the proposed level might not be in line with the principle of economy. The point is that today we may solve the problem, but in 3 and 4 years the local governments will be colliding with the iceberg, again they will not be prepared to achieve recycling levels, which will be relatively high again. Senator Janusz Błecherz stressed that delays in the introduction of changes in waste management have very negative effects and contribute to the increase of charges for municipal waste for residents. A situation in which there is a lack of legislation extending the storage time of the calorie fraction waste or the need for very costly plant monitoring investments, i.e. RIPOKs, force the costs of such installations to be increased. It is mentioned here that meeting the requirements of the Climate Minister's regulation concerning the monitoring of the Kalisz plant cost almost 800 thousand PLN. This is about infrared cameras, rotating cameras heated with individual power supply. And it's all part of the regulation. The senator encouraged the Minister to make the announced changes appear without undue delay, as soon as possible, which will be welcomed by both local governments and residents as well as by installations for the treatment of waste. He also pointed out the potential risks that may arise when the market is released for the construction of a waste thermal plant, namely incineration plants. Andrzej Porawski thanked Minister Jack Odobie for the changes made to this law and for the establishment of a consultative team on the development of best solutions in the waste economy. The Joint Government and Local Government Commission fully supports statutory amendments. The representative of the recycling industry pointed out that the solution proposed in the Waste Act, in particular Article. 35b and Article 35b 35c, can have a very negative impact on the industry it represents. He even said that the industry was over the abyss. He pointed out that the waste is a lot, but it is significantly contaminated, because the municipalities cannot afford to prepare it for further treatment. In his view, the situation may improve the introduction of rules related to the extended producer responsibility, but also the implementation of recycling levels. It also pointed out that the creation of new investments for thermal treatment of waste could cut off the raw material industry it represents, i.e. the recycling industry in general. Some questions were asked by the senators because Minister Jacek Odoroba had resigned. At the very beginning of his speech, he presented the position of the Ministry on the ongoing work on legal solutions related to waste management. It shows that long-awaited changes This includes, inter alia,:: maximum rates of charges for non-inhabited properties, changes in the criminal code and the criminal code of offences concerning penalties for the abandonment of hazardous waste, declarations of cleanliness plus or extension of periods of storage of the energy fraction of waste will see light already at the beginning of 2021 and will then be widely discussed and consulted. The Minister referred to most of the problems raised during the discussion. Finally, the joint committees adopted 3 amendments to the Act, which were proposed by the Senate Legislative Office and accepted by the Ministry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Benjamin Godyla. You're welcome to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u38	Senator, my question is this: was the issue of construction and demolition waste addressed at the committee meeting and how the level of recovery of the waste will be calculated?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u39	I don't think this problem was raised at the committee itself. However, in the bill this problem is solved. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3aa is said to be in force to prepare for re-use and recovery other than hazardous construction and demolition waste constituting municipal waste of at least 70% by weight. In fact, it will go away from the adoption of construction and demolition waste to the total amount of waste. So that the problem that I think might arise I think the Minister can answer that question. The problem with demolition waste, construction waste, is that, or... These good waste will be managed, but there are also bad demolition waste. That's what I call it. waste such as a large plate, which has many metal elements in it, and these wastes are dumped in different places and will be a problem how to manage them later, if these are places not intended for this purpose. So that I think that there should also be action to protect ourselves from the existence of places where such waste will eventually be abandoned.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u41	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. Because now there's a discussion. I'm talking about it from a citizen's perspective. on the cost of receiving household waste. Please tell me: does this law have a chance to move towards a reduction in costs, a final cost for this citizen, who simply has waste, or, on the contrary, it will increase these costs in the future? Well, that's the question that most often arises with regard to any waste regulation. I'm going to say that at the moment, many people are just worried about any project coming along because they don't know if it's going to mean any more increases. And then there's the other thing. In my view, in principle, this law is very right, it goes very well, and it is good that we are proceeding with it at this Senate meeting that it has managed to put this on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u42	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u43	Mr. Senator, I'm going to say that this bill is certainly still dealing with the problem that local governments expect to deal with this year, which is changing the level of recycling to be achieved by individual municipalities. These levels were so high that most municipalities wouldn't reach them. The Ministry has calculated that if this were to happen, potentially environmental inspections would be able to impose penalties for failing to achieve recycling levels at a national level of up to 900 million, as I presented earlier. Secondly, potentially in the future, the deletion of the article. 35b and 35c of the Waste Act can reduce these costs if local incineration plants are built. Then some of the waste that we have to process for a lot of money today... the waste from the energy fraction that they don't really want or wish for so high prices that it's threatening... And at the same time, we have to do it because we can't store it. This solution could potentially lead in the future, not today, to lower costs. But in general, as I said at the end, as the Minister of Environment said, Minister Jacek Ornament is expected to change, which in fact should already be done, e.g. extension of the storage time of the energy fraction. Then we will not be under the pressure of monopolists that we must give away these waste and pay a high price for the energy fraction. This is the first case. Two. What all local governments report is a matter of so-called. Unbuilt real estate. Some municipalities calculate that the fact that they have to apply such a solution at the moment costs potentially inhabitants of the municipality up to 4 PLN more. We pay for properties often uninhabited, according to this, say, today's statutory recipe. It is announced by the Minister that this will be changed. What can reduce costs is the maintenance of the so-called. Marshal's fee. As announced by the Minister, this fee will be maintained, according to the Minister, it cannot be reduced, but it will be maintained. At least keep this Marshal's fee, today amounting to PLN 270 per tonne of waste, which will be stored or stored in a landfill... She's tall enough... I will give you on the example of the union "Clean City," "Clean City," where I was chairman of the board for a year, that the Marshal's fee in 2019 paid by this plant to the Marshal's office until 31 March 2019 amounted to around 3 million, and in 2020, due to the change in the amount of this fee, was around 6 million. This is a very serious amount which later affects how much we pay at the entrance to the plant, that is, on the gate, for one tonne of waste that will not be processed further, but stored in the landfill. I think that's what's expected. Just a request to the Minister and his staff at the Ministry of Climate and Environment to see the light of day as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u44	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We have Minister Ornament with us. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u45	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In answer to questions, I must go beyond these proposals to amend the provisions of the Cleanliness Act and other laws, because we have separated the legislative process into matters that are urgent and that need to be clarified and the legislative process taking into account the standard timing of the legislative process. About the changes we're talking about here right now... Indeed, thanks to the more favourable method of calculating the levels this year, which we can apply This option will no longer be possible next year due to EU legislation The savings for municipalities according to the chief environmental officer at national level will amount to as much as PLN 900 million. These would be penalties that would have to be charged by the Environmental Protection Inspection for failing to comply with the tasks of the Act. As for the next change, we propose removing, repealing the article on the central list of thermal installations. In answer to the question of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski in the context of costs and discussions... The calorie fraction is indicated as the one which today is one of the biggest problems for local government officials. By comparison: in Poland we have 8 such installations, in France This is obviously not the best method, because thermal management should be, and it is, at the end of the waste hierarchy. But given that this volume of waste that can't be done with anything more than just stored or thermally managed is a problem today... In 2015, it was decided to prohibit the storage of such fractions and today the only legal road is, of course, the incineration plants I mentioned, but also cement plants. The commercial market, which can apply prices here and apply... This growth is noticeable and felt for the inhabitants. It was previously decided by Parliament that the climate minister would issue a list of thermal installations by regulation. We thought that such a central list was not the best solution due to several factors. First of all, our assessment did not take into account the cement plant, and I mentioned them, which have made decisions that take away this element related to the 30% ceiling. As a result of the waste package, we must strive for the highest level of recycling, but this issue of thermal development is still in the investment gap. We found that such a central decision would not be the best solution, because it would raise a lot of comments. Firstly, there are no specific guidelines on the extent to which such a decision would be taken. Secondly, in the case of this type of decision, the question is, what about those who are building, and besides, there are many other roadblocks resulting precisely from the transitional period. And that's why we're proposing that we remove the rule that talks about the central one. I speak in the central, of course, in the context of the ministry. A regulation with a list of thermal installations. Another change, very important, results, among others. the recent arrangements and the objectives that are being pursued at all times and the policies resulting from membership of the European Union. Namely, the recycling level. Here I would like to point out that when we look directly at the provisions of the amendment of the law, we may have the impression of lowering, but we do not. We must bear in mind that we already have different levels calculated from next year; taking into account the new algorithm, we must give an investigation path for the highest levels. If there is, for example. 20, that doesn't mean that today's laws are included here, which is why I'm following... I am pleased that the Senate Committee has been able to explain that we are actually increasing the levels in which the municipality should aim for the highest indicators in terms of recycling waste. It is such a path that shows, on a systematic basis, year by year, what these levels should look like and gives the opportunity to implement waste policy in a way that is compatible not only with climate policy, but also with issues arising from EU legislation, which we are obviously connected with. The next change concerns the displacement of the module in the waste database. I'll tell you right away that the waste base is a giant system. More than 0.5 million users, daily login, infoline. This system may still be imperfect, but it is definitely in a different situation than at the beginning of operation, we improve it. Many situations have shown that the digital system, the electronic system, is able to function in the case of waste management, which is why I am very happy that we are at this stage when the new modules will actually end this comprehensive system. He is very important in the context, among others. the pursuit of policies related to recycling and the fight against crime, because we see the flow of waste there and we see where there is possibly an irregularity. From 1 January this system will be a completely digital system. Since many questions, already beyond this amendment, were about waste management, I would also like to mention that this week information was published... Last week, in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, a decision was taken to include a second project on further reform of the waste economy, which is important, including among others. real estate uninhabited. This is a very important change. In its judgment, the Constitutional Tribunal held that the maximum rate had to be determined by the legislator. This is also the case in the case of residential property and non-inhabited real estate. In the case of residential property, local authorities do not pay attention to the problem of the maximum rate, and in the case of uninhabited real estate, this rate is simply too low, which causes, as the senator rightly pointed out, that where the municipality has an uninhabited property system, citizens have to add to the system, and this is of course not desirable. Another issue concerns the hierarchy of conduct set out in the second project, i.e. This concerns an amendment to the rules of the Code of Offences, an increase in the penalty for littering from 500 PLN to 5 000 PLN The amendment of the legislation on the abandonment of hazardous waste, which includes a criminal code. There are also flexibility in the collection system, as there are such situations, especially in rural communities. I'm gonna make it so graphical. The fact that the farm, the inhabitants who are really naturally using biowaste, today meet with something such that the municipality must regularly, in accordance with the provisions of the law, send someone to pick up these biowastes. Meanwhile, these bio-wastes are naturally managed in composters. That's why we're giving this opportunity. If someone has a composter, biowaste will not be mandatory to receive. These are costs which in the case of rural communities are indicated as quite high. Unfortunately, today's pickup truck drives without any sense. This is only the fulfilment of statutory standards, and biowaste is not received, because of course they are naturally managed. As regards the next amendment, it concerns the extension of the storage period of the calorie fraction. It must be remembered that in Poland we are now at a different time than a few years ago when it comes to the fight against crime, because today the pursuit of this activity requires the protection of claims, it requires video monitoring, it requires the fulfilment of fire standards. Therefore, the problem of fires is a much smaller problem. Of course, they still exist and are part of the fight against pathology, but it is not as scale as it was a few years ago. A special crime cell was created with the Chief Environmental Officer. It coordinates the activities of various services, such as the National Tax Administration, the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Police, the Fire Department, the Road Transport Inspection, in order to cooperate in these services and understand waste management issues. Image: Road Transport Inspection, stopping the transport that carries such waste... She's gonna be trained, she's trained all the time, she's kept informed about what's legal and what's not, which gives her the ability to respond to situations of lawbreaking. Further changes that we have prepared and which will soon see the light of day, I hope, at the beginning of 2021, relate to the extended responsibility of manufacturers and the SUP Directive, so-called. the plastic directive. This mainly concerns the creation of an extended liability system, taking into account the use of a recyclate. It is very important to strive in Poland for the recycling market to function smoothly. Otherwise, we will have problems with failing to comply with the standards and thus with the costs resulting from the penalties that will be imposed on us. Therefore, the extended manufacturer's responsibility will already include partially the implementation of the Single Use Plastics Directive and other components that seal the system. In our next proposal, we've worked out... At the moment, legislation is already being laid down that concerns criminal and criminal policy in relation to the fight against crime. These are not only provisions of the Penal Code, but also administrative provisions, so as to avoid the phenomenon that occurs, appeals against the decision of the Environmental Inspector and prolonged proceedings, resulting in such a little suspension. I say 'pseudo', because if someone so grossly violates the rules, then he is not any entrepreneur who breaks the law and appeals to the law today, which makes inspection often helpless... Of course, this has changed, there has been professionalisation, there are new inspection powers. This amendment, which will be presented to the senators, will also discuss this scope, including new environmental inspections, for example. use of modern techniques such as drones or phototraps. To a much wider extent it will be possible to use them. In answer to your questions, I'm going to say yes. As far as costs of waste management are concerned, those elements that relate to seemingly small changes, such as: These bio-wastes, composting or the question of extending the storage period, removing the list for thermal management, waste hierarchy or savings resulting from the absence of penalties, of course, will have an extended responsibility of the manufacturer and implementation of the SUP regulations, will have a positive impact. This will have a positive impact on waste management policies, especially given the burden it is today for local governments. Therefore, next year we will be after many changes that will have a positive impact on this and which should stop growth, and in some cases will reduce the costs of the waste management system in Poland. Therefore, I would like to thank the local government, including entrepreneurs, recyclers for their cooperation with this project. We are not only consulting these projects in a way that results from the legislative process and from the obligation, but the climate ministry has also established a dedicated waste management team, which in its timetable has a permanent consultation with the local government, with entrepreneurs precisely in terms of drafting these rules, which, in our view, require implementation as soon as possible due to the many solutions that should be implemented in the waste management system not only due to EU legislation, the waste package, but also to the functioning of the system that should be significantly improved in our assessment today. That is why I propose these changes. On the subject of this amendment, I would like to point out that in the Parliament committee, almost unanimously, because only one Member has abstained, approved these provisions, and ultimately more than 400 Members have accepted them. Thank you very much, too, because this project was adopted unanimously. So that I count on support because of the urgency and importance of this project, when it comes not only to local government, but also to care for recycling levels due to EU policy. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u46	Thank you very much, Minister. Please remain with the speaker, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the representative of the government related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? This is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this bill is good because it aims, which may not be simply said, to counter possible bad monopolistic practices or to neutralise them in the waste market and in general in this industry. And that's the right direction, because it obviously affects the cost. I speak here all the time from the perspective of the citizen, from the perspective of the households who pay for this waste. What the voters are asking me about waste is a huge concern about the changes in the fees for waste arising from the new resolutions of the municipalities' councils, which now charge them depending on water consumption. These are, for example. in the case of Warsaw, as we have read, very drastic, several hundred percent raises for the household, which will mostly hit large families and large households, and it is known that without children there is no future. From this point of view, this would be an action that could be negative. What is the position of the Minister's Ministry, and how does the government react or react to such increases? Well, the shock is the scale of these increases, it's not a few percent or a dozen, it's just the multiples of those fees that have been paid so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u48	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, thank you very much for this question, especially in the context of the situation in the capital city of Warsaw, because the scale of the problem is here, I would say macro, because against the background of Poland Warsaw will become... It will stand out against the background of Europe, because paradoxically in Berlin it will be cheaper than in Warsaw. Well, that's a big problem, especially since we have many families in mind, of course. In our view, this method is not perfect. I recommended an analysis of better methods and they will be worked out. Unfortunately, this cannot be done in an accelerated mode, because today there are 4 options to choose from and the municipality decides what is the best method. But in the case of this method, when the charge depends on the consumption of water, this upper limit is really about the cubic meter, not the total amount. Of course, the municipality uses some kind of tricks and this resolution is... In addition, I would like to point out that in a few months this is probably the fourth change in Warsaw's capital city, which also shows some legislative chaos. But we do analyze it. In the case of this second project, we will probably want to introduce such solutions, so that after crossing a certain limit, the resident has a choice so that he can determine which methods he wants to use. I can't imagine a few people's family paying PLN 200.250 for waste. This is absolutely outrageous. I know the Warsaw situation very well, and not only in the political sense. Here we do not even need to address substantive issues, because the person who serves as the president of the city's purification company is the former Minister of Treasury in the government of Mr Donald Tusk, Mr Karpiński. But I would also like to point out that there are many years of negligence here. Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz resigned from EU subsidies in 2010 for the construction of waste thermal installations. She wrote to Minister Bieńkowska at the time. At that time it was PLN 0.5 billion. Today, Mr President boasts that such an object is to be built, but it will cost almost PLN 2 billion. Other cities did it, Warsaw didn't do it. The investment museum in Warsaw's capital city spoils the situation of waste management not only in the region, but also, at least in my opinion, throughout the country. Waste travels around Poland, causing cost increases in some parts of the country. Warsaw has no rational policy in this area, it focuses on issues which have neither really been reflected nor legal justification, and to the extent that information is sent to residents that is based on misinformation and lies, e.g. related to the introduction of certain elements relating to fractality. This is the result of the agreement from the reign of Prime Minister Donald Tusk and Rafał Trzaskowski. This is not about us pushing ourselves, but this is a situation that shows that instead of dealing with waste policy rationally, the city focuses solely on political action, not taking care of any investments and winding up a city company. The cost of this is noticeable. If anyone disagrees with my opinion, then... [[...Return to substance.]] Yes, I'm referring to the substance. I just mentioned it. If you think that, for example. giving up the EU grant for the construction of the plant, the question of comparing with other cities or misleading residents are not substantive matters, it is really... Minister, don't be so emotional. As a senator, you should consider this... [[Please answer the question in substance.]] ...which is the duty of the city. 'Cause I feel like it's not doing national politics, it's just taking care of people. And disinformation and cost-making... It's too bad the senator isn't in this room right now. That's what Senator Jackowski was talking about. How much will the inhabitants pay. You wonder what Rafał Trzaskowski will do and what his situation is like. You know, I'm on the side of the residents... [[You're gonna listen to me in a minute, and then you're gonna see what I'm interested in.]] ...not on Rafał Trzaskowski's side. It is our duty as politicians, including your duty as senator, to take care of the people. I hope so, because in the case of Warsaw... If you don't believe my words, compare that to the cost of operating these installations in other cities. You'll see this is one big investment museum. It just so happens that I am a long-term local government of Warsaw, so I answer this question in a substantive and precise manner. I'm outraged by what happened to this town. Warsaw is the European capital, which is at the gray end in terms of investment, which is an investment museum, as I mentioned here. The city has really neglected its policy, leading to such a situation that its inhabitants will be burdened with all this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u50	Senator Jackowski wants to ask you another question. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u51	Yes. Thank you very much, Minister, for this substantive answer. You've used such a phrase that you'll look into it and offer alternative solutions. Would you like to tell me the details? Because I think that residents, especially Warsaw, might be interested. They're shocked. The paradox of this new calculation is that it may turn out that, according to these new rules, even a single-person farm will pay more than before, if it has a higher consumption of water, for which notabene also pays. After all, the water is not free, for the water intake and its discharge into the waste water are very high charges. Thus, according to this conversion factor, it may simply prove that even single-person holdings will have a much higher rate than they currently do, which clearly conflicts with the principle of justice. Well, it's a mechanism. And yet, in volume terms, residents can produce very little waste, because here one is not connected at all. That's a theoretical assumption. And now I have a question. Is there, therefore, any interference to be expected, i.e. any legislative proposal in this area or any other action? Would the Minister like to elaborate on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u52	To answer the senator's question, I would like to say that this is indeed the case, in the second project we will want to present such solutions. They can be concentrated I'm saying maybe, because there's still a legal analysis going on, if we can use this path. E.g. the possibility of moving the inhabitants to another method that will be more beneficial. I mean, if you're like... the cost of receiving the waste will exceed the maximum rate calculated from the type of property, the resident will be able to decide that he does not want to count from the water consumption, only by the method in question, which makes the limit of the maximum rate natural. There is also a proposal that will be easier, but here we still have legal doubts, because the total monthly costs for the collection of waste will not be greater than that calculated using the real estate method.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u53	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! Minister! To be honest with you, I'm shocked at the end of your speech because there wasn't supposed to be politics, but well... I have a few questions. Minister, please tell me... Yet only in relation to what was just said, I will say such words: weapons, Lord God's interference of the government or those who govern the powers of the government. The government is accountable to its residents. If the Warsaw authorities referred to do their duties badly, the residents will settle them. Do not interfere, State, with the powers of local governments. That's right now. Minister, tell me if you have data, knowledge. This is also in the context of Senator Jackowski's statement. On this issue, whether local governments make money from garbage. I would ask you to answer that question. Do you have that knowledge? I ask you this because, according to my knowledge, local governments obviously use different methods of charging prices for garbage, because each city has its own characteristics. Warsaw is a specific city. It is not so easy to count, due to the lack of reporting obligation, how many people in a given property produce garbage, because several people are registered, and lives several dozen, so it is not so easy. So, to sum up, do you have that kind of knowledge, or do local governments make money out of garbage? Now for my next question. What percentage of municipalities, according to the old method of calculating this level of recovery and recycling, did not meet the existing criteria? In Poland there are 2 000 477 municipalities. Here is only the amount that the municipalities would theoretically pay, or nine hundred or so million zlotys. That's just the amount. But the question is: what is the percentage of the municipalities, of all 2 000 477 that wouldn't meet these imposed criteria? About changing the way... Minister, we discussed with your colleagues at the committee meeting, I almost got convinced... But again I tried to reach out to the Polish language when it comes to inter-city relationships, which deal with waste management, in people who do it. Believe me, most people, the vast majority of people who know about garbage, couldn't understand what it was like to increase by lowering. So it sounded more or less in your words that lowering recovery levels would increase recycling levels. No one understands that. Could you explain that again? I thank your colleagues who explained this to me, but in Poland it is completely incomprehensible. Now I also have this question: do you think that this level will be raised or lowered, but let's not discuss it any more... The point is that the municipalities have already decided to tender, and this therefore translates into the prices of waste exports. I know communes or inter-city relationships that are waiting for this law to enter into force, because they think prices are going to fall. Why? Because we'd all be happy to see prices fall. However, only a decrease in these prices will be linked to a reduction in recycling levels. Trash companies will be able to lower the price because recycling levels will fall. And lastly, aren't you afraid that if you do? It's a question of interpretation. This level of recycling will be, let's call it, non-restrictive... Aren't you afraid that relaxing these limits right now, those standards that are already in force... Well, the municipalities were trying to achieve these recycling levels. Aren't you afraid that there'll be relaxation now and then, for example. In three years' time, the municipalities will simply not be able to meet these European standards in any way, so that another government that will take over in three years will have a huge problem because it will not be able to explain itself to the European Union in any way and the penalties will be very high? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u55	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u56	Thank you, Senator, for that question. This is because this year we are counting from 4 factions, and from next year, according to the new regulation, with a new algorithm, with a new method of calculating these levels... It is impossible to translate the current situation into next year's situation. This amendment assumes a different path. If we could reschedule what's actually here today, that's 36%. From what I remember... Under this amendment, this would be less than 20% In order to reach this level, local governments would have to increase by a few more percent... Of course, we are ambitious about this. On the website of the Ministry of Climate, there is an explanation of what this new method is. This will be fully understandable when the regulation is adopted. It will come into force next year and will apply precisely to this new methodology. From next year, the European Union will count these levels from all types of municipal waste, and this year they are counted from four, which makes the base number different. We have to take this into account. If we don't take that into account, then we can actually have the apparent impression of lowering... That's not true. Nor is it a relaxation of standards. In the amendment of the Act we have the provision that art. Article 3b (3) (b) 1 is replaced by the following: And we have these points one at a time. It can be noted here that this increase is quite large due to the volume of weight. That's an increase. from year to year, taking account of Union levels. In order to fully translate this into practice, it is important to take into account issues related to the new regulation, which is very important to us. We strive to complete as much as possible what is part of the waste package. And the question of such additional financing of the waste management system. Here's what I'm gonna say. It's a possibility, but reality is different. I'm aware of that. I'm talking to the local government. I'm certainly not going to use the statement that they can finance this system on their own, because I know that these prices aren't... they're a burden on the municipal waste management system. Participation of recyclers in a product that will be placed on the market... This element is intended to increase the demand for this type of raw material. This will cause, hopefully, but according to some local governments, this will be the result of the analyses that we have at our disposal, that there will be an increase in these costs... No costs, I'm sorry, just prices, price increases, which in turn will give the system the opportunity to be co-financed. It's not like that today. Of course, it's a theory, it might be, but I'm not gonna say it's gonna happen, because market realities are totally different right now. Besides, this problem exists throughout the European Union. The problem with recycling is also due to the closure of the Chinese market in 2018. Such a crisis has occurred throughout Europe, but of course we are currently dealing with the situation in Poland. That's why we're talking about these levels. Once again, I encourage you to read the content on the website and this new regulation, which, if I remember correctly, has already been published and which describes this new calculation methodology. This new method is the result of EU legislation to which we are obliged to apply. We can't use the method that's going to be this year... And from next year this path will be as it was presented here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u57	I'm sorry, but you haven't answered my two questions. I'll remind them. Do you think that local governments in Poland make money from garbage? This is in the context of prices for garbage, also in the case of Warsaw Or are they trying to cover the costs of the garbage economy? And the question I asked at first. Do you have any idea how many percentage municipalities in Poland And we have 2,000 municipalities. Wouldn't it have met the criteria if we hadn't introduced this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u58	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I thought I answered that question in the context of the raw material prices, because this is an important issue in this question. According to law, the municipality can earn on this, but the price of the raw material due to market conditions is far from sufficient, so it is a burden for the local government. At the moment, the government doesn't make any money from it, but it's legally possible. Therefore, if the economic situation is better in this respect, e.g. connected with the recyclate I mentioned, the local government will be able to finance it. But in the present state, this is a problem for the local government, because there is no market for sales and if there is no market for sales, these prices are unfortunately too small, which means that the funds do not reach the level we want to go to the municipalities' budgets. To answer the next question, I'm going to say that I can't count this percentage. I can provide you with information. I know that the Environmental Protection Inspection has calculated this at national level at 900 million. If you need such detailed information regarding interest rates, of course we can present it. At the moment, I have such data that it's 900 million, resulting from the environmental inspection calculations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u59	Mr. Senator, would you like such detailed information in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u60	You're welcome. I just wish I could correct it, Minister. Self-governments can't make money out of garbage. If you could point me in the bill to the record that says they can, I'd be very grateful.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u61	Maybe I can clarify that. Mr. Senator, I was referring to the value of the raw material, to be simplified. Of course, it's not like they're supposed to make money and have an economic balance for selling waste. I think we agree on that. I was talking about this more in the context of the problem of disposal of this raw material today, which is the result of the waste management process, e.g. Bottles of pets. And here's the full agreement. But when it comes to a precise answer, it's actually such a source of income... Well, full agreement with the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u62	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u63	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Many questions in public space are related to the import of waste to Poland. And I would like to perversely ask not about import, but about export, which is also... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but there's a problem with the sound. Please repeat the question from the beginning.]] Maybe now it'll be better... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Mr. Senator, there's still a problem with the sound. I'll consult...]] Hello, can you hear me? Hello? Hello? [[Mr. Senator, would you please turn off the camera? 'Cause it's supposed to help.]] I already did. Mr. Marshal, I did it. Can you hear me? Can you hear me better? [[Try it.]] Okay, let's do it again. I would like to ask, Minister, in view of the fact that many questions in public space are related to imports, about the scale of these imports during the years of the PO-PSL governments, in 2007 and 2015 compared to, say, imports in 2019. As you would say... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: Good.]] But I'd also like to ask you about the export... [[Disruption during the speech]] 'Cause... I'd like to ask if he's growing or falling. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u64	Mr. Senator, there's still a problem. We understand so much that you asked about the scale of the imports of waste in the years of our predecessors' governments. But we didn't hear the second question. [[Voice from the hall: Export.]] Export, right? [[Yeah, yeah, export. The second question was the question of export, whether it's growing or falling. Because Poland also exports waste.]] Okay, that's all we know. The Minister's answer is yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u65	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for this question, it is very important because there is a lot of false information in public space in this area. It is a pity that Senator Breja is not here because he regularly provides information that is not true, so I encourage you to read the information on the Environmental Protection Chief Inspector's website. Because the import of waste is now at a level which is the result, among others. economic development. We banned waste imports in 2018 e.g. for landfills, thermal installations, etc., so what is imported is e.g. Recyclates. The recycling is also treated as waste, so when something like this arrives, it occurs in statistics as waste, but this is an element associated with activity e.g. the trader concerned. There is still a real problem with illegal imports. But the rules in this area are very restrictive, and there is less and less, and this phenomenon, which has been for many years, is already on a much smaller scale. There are years, the question concerned the period before 2015. That the level of imports of such waste was 1 million t, in one year, probably in 2009, if I'm not mistaken, 1 million 600 thousand t. We are currently importing about 400 thousand t. But the volume of exports increased from 100,000 t to... We have exceeded the level of over 500,000 t, I am talking here about the consents of the Chief Environmental Officer. It's getting pretty balanced. It must be remembered that, of course, in the media space politicians are already such politicians and publicists like to use such an argument, the formulation of the rubbish of Europe. It's about imports, for example. batteries, etc. But it's a pity that no one's looking at how it actually looks like when an element like this comes in, it's like. recovery of lead because pure lead is expensive on the market. And that's how entrepreneurs do their business. Or, for example, there is an imported recyclate, wood chips and other elements that serve, as I mentioned, entrepreneurs. We in Poland, of course, continue to carry out this legal analysis with the chief environmental officer in the field of combating pathological phenomena, which are certainly part of the functioning of what we are talking about. The gray zone always occurs and needs to be eliminated. Therefore, new solutions will be proposed, but it is more on the basis of such administrative measures, sealing. As a rule, in Poland imports of waste e.g. for storage, as it is often understood by publicists, i.e.... bags, such black waste cannot be imported. And if they are, it's illegal. This type of transport has already been sent back many times. The Environmental Protection Inspection stated on the spot that these are illegal imports of waste, which was, of course, a violation of the Waste Act, there are sanctions in the Penal Code. There were even ships sent back. But as a curiosity, I have recommended, within the framework of the Ministry of Climate, the preparation of such a team, which will improve the export of e.g. The calorie fraction. I haven't said it in public yet, but a few entrepreneurs are already exporting such waste. The direction of the last transport was among others. Sweden, which is willing to accept such waste, is also interested in Germany. We have done an analysis of the situation in Europe and which countries would like such raw materials or waste to accept, for example. You can't import to us, but you can export to us. So to answer precisely: the volume of exports increased from 100 thousand, we exceeded the level of 500 thousand. Of course, the question is how entrepreneurs will benefit from this because these are permits. But they're spent for a while, so... the interest in exports is huge. Import is stable. Of course, I'm not talking about the one that's illegal because it's part of the fight against crime. And here. I'm going to speak the common language. The screw is very tightened, for which I would like to thank the Road Transport Inspection, the National Tax Administration and, of course, the Environmental Protection Inspections, which respond perfectly. And the statistics show that this problem, this gray area, is in a completely different place than a few years ago. So that we import less, in terms of e.g. business needs. This depends, of course, on the economic situation. This import, which is often spoken of by publicists, i.e. Europe's garbage dumps, etc., is not true. There's a ban, this phenomenon is sanctioned, there's no law against it. This is a matter of the gray zone. As for exports, the volume was increased from 100,000 to over 500,000 tons per year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u66	Thank you very much, Minister. I have here information that Senator Ambrosik is asking for such a detailed summary. [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: Of course.]] Thank you very much, no further questions. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: Thank you...]] Mr. Marshal... [[Speaker: Mr Marshal, Room 217, Senator Czarnobaj had previously announced to the secretary from the plenary room...]] Oh, that information wasn't given to me. In that case, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, first of all, I would like to ask a question about the knowledge on which the programme was based, because this is very important. Of course, I think there are a lot of good solutions here. And my question is, could the Minister tell you where the problem of non-compliance lies? The Minister spoke about the amount of PLN 900 million. We know that in writing you will answer the question of how many local governments are involved. But do you have or do you have a quantum problem? What's the problem here? What is the main problem of not achieving these standards? That's the first question. And the other. Minister, you said you had your knowledge. It was heard in the speech, and I will comment on it in the speech. On the basis of excellent knowledge about the case of Warsaw. My question is: do you have any idea how municipalities in the province The municipalities of 30-, 40-, 5- and 10-thousand-year-olds implemented the entire BDO programme? It's about effort and organizational costs. Do you have that knowledge? What is the problem with these municipalities? Where are the main problems involved in implementing this? And one last question. Minister, you said in your last statement that we increased as Poland exports from 100 tons to 500 tons. In fact, maybe it's okay, I don't know that the waste importer made us an exporter. But could the Minister characterize what is the subject of exports of rainfall to Sweden and Germany? That's the first question I've ever asked. And two: is export the only solution for the development of individual fractions in the case of waste management?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u68	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u69	Thank you so much for these questions. As far as exports are concerned, the example I was talking about was the calorie fraction. We in Poland do not have enough suitable for this type of installation. We have, as I mentioned, eight incinerators, the rest are cementing. I gave an example that there are 96 in Germany, 126 in France, and thirty in Sweden these types of installations. And in this case, this was the case for exports to Sweden of this calorie fraction. And as for these levels and investigations, what are they, I understand, strategy, purpose, opinion... This is primarily a desire to bridge the investment gap, i.e. not only to meet the standards resulting from membership of the European Union, but also to invest, which are implemented through programmes from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the local authorities' own actions. They, of course, need support here in my view, and that is why we have started a broad dialogue with local government officials on this waste database that you mentioned. In fact, in the initial stages it was difficult to carry out. I'm sure the senator was referring specifically to the reporting period. Hence our meetings, our training. I've been in a few, too. Historically, I think we've done the most training in this area. The phone company that was... I do not hide that after such training the problem was definitely reduced. There were several municipalities that needed additional explanations. And it did happen that, with several municipalities, my colleagues solved this problem step by step. We're still trying to improve it. Many of these reports are being implemented... In fact, the database in a broadly understood aspect, in my view, still requires a lot of facilitation. We have also taken such small steps for users, such as: The transition from megagrams to tons or kilos. It was a problem that repeatedly resulted from the fact that the entrepreneur, of course, who is on this base... Because, of course, it is important to remember that these are not people running a hairdresser's shop. I'll say, for example. The vet, who carried such waste in the form of a waste bag requiring special transport or specific waste in this respect, had to supplement the data expressed in tonnes. We don't think that was very good. Of course, it's changed to kilos. Before that, there were even megagrams that were incomprehensible. These are of course small changes, but if we introduce a whole range of such lace changes Therefore, the next step will be the new modules that will be added to the database. E.g. we move the recycling confirmation module, because with the extended responsibility of the manufacturer we want to see what it looks like when this waste stream goes to the recycler, how much of it is recycled, so that we have proof that this recycling was actually done. Unfortunately, in Poland these levels are often the result of the presentation of a document, and not necessarily so in reality. I don't know if I missed anything, but... [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'm the minister...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u70	Okay, Mr. Senator, yet...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u71	Minister, one word of comment on what you said. However, I would like to suggest, Minister, to pay attention to the functioning of the IT system, its compatibility, readability, ease, etc., etc. This is the thing that has created and supposedly continues to create the most problems in such a 100% implementation of this programme. But the Minister says you're dating, talking. I think the participants in this training pass on this information. But I, Minister, asked you this: where is the problem with not reaching by individual municipalities... I'm sure you can't tell us what the number of municipalities affected by this 900 million... What's the problem? Is the problem in the disposal or are there other problems? I'd like to... Is this quantified, localized, and do you have any idea how to fight this problem?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u72	Thank you. First of all, the question is: what is the problem? Problem with the IT system... As I said, thank you very much for your attention. The system is being improved and, like most such systems, obviously needs to be clarified. So far, the system is stable. It has over half a million users, which also shows a gigantic scale. We did not have major technical problems, this system has never derailed seriously enough to create permanent problems for users, and in the case of such a base, in a very short period of implementation, this really is, I believe, a positive signal. This is the result of the hard work carried out by the Institute of Environmental Protection as the one that creates this base. About the problem where in local governments... Because they have waste management tasks. Of course, it depends on the local government. There are local governments that have installations that have invested, and there is a much smaller problem. There are local governments who have neglected this investment period. And I am not speaking maliciously about Warsaw here, but this is simply objective. It's not in Warsaw. If someone shows me the modern infrastructure in the capital city of Warsaw, I will be happy to familiarize myself with it. It's not my malice. My experience is that since 2014 I have been a member of the environmental committee, I have always been close to this topic and I have been interested in what it looks like in the capital city of Warsaw. And even as we look at the history of problems related to Warsaw, we can see that waste policy is one of the elements that needs to be improved. I hope this will be improved. I do not hide that I also received support in this area, I received comments, which has the capital city of Warsaw, for which I thank the Vice President very much. Suggestions are important here. It's in the city. When creating law, during the legislative process we also meet, regardless of political colours in local governments, in order to create the best possible right. That is why I thank you very much for the position of the local government party, which supported, among others. That project we're talking about right now. In local governments there is a problem, as I mentioned, an investment gap, which must be completed, of course, depending on the problem with a given fraction. If this is about the calorie fraction, then we have a few solutions. We have such a solution to make this faction less, but it is very difficult and there are levels below which it cannot be reduced... And there's a problem with where it should go. Such an installation for thermal development is a place where thermally it can be used. The second possibility is export. The third is, of course, a process involving cement plants. There is also the possibility of this thermal development. That's about the calorie fraction. As far as the other factions are concerned, of course, this needs to be done according to the specifics. In the case of bio-waste, biogas plants, composting, this is the path that is an element associated with this fraction. As far as raw materials are concerned, in the case of PET bottles, the solution is to use this on the market, related to recyclers, to make available this raw material, which is recovered in households just within this fraction. Well, in the case of metals, it's simplified because the metals are profitable. They're missing them very much, so they're naturally liquidated. Well, that's not a problem. In the case of a paper fraction, of course, recycling is most desirable. So we see that this is about filling in the investment gap. Our plans are related to the completion of the investment gap in Poland in terms of waste management. As far as the functioning of municipalities is concerned, the development of PSZK, i.e. selective waste collection points, is a good strategy here. This is a very comfortable form. In cities it doesn't always work well, but smaller municipalities are perfectly able to handle it. What is very exciting is that educational activities related to waste management are also being carried out. Actually, it's about educating the public about how to dispose of waste. This is also a very important element. Well, different campaigns are run by local governments. I don't know if that's the exact answer to that question. I understand that it's about what the idea is to make it cheaper or how to reach these levels. As far as the levels are concerned, I am showing in turn what needs to be done in relation to a given issue when it comes to factions. As far as prices are concerned, it is important here to complete the investment gap. The calorie fraction he mentioned, among others. The director of waste management of Warsaw's capital city generates today, at least according to your director, more than half of the total costs of waste management in Warsaw. Well, there used to be a lot less. Thus, such installation will actually allow these costs to be reduced. Senator Tyszkiewicz asked a very good question about the question of making money. I understood that this question was about how local governments are supposed to deal with those factions that should in theory be less burdensome. Well, if we're dealing with metals, there's no problem with an entrepreneur using them to get them on the market. In the case of PET bottles, as I have already mentioned many times, there is a problem because these market conditions differ. Therefore, the completion of the investment gap is of course an important element. I would also point to the solutions that are proposed in these current rules and in the second project that was discussed here. It goes on for example. about the possibility of declaring that biowaste will reach the composter, which will give us a higher level of management and ensure proper handling of this type of waste. We will no longer require the commune to go into an empty container, which is simply pointless. And that's why we're bringing it in. Another shift, the other one... Because there was also a question about the decision of the local government party. I totally agree here. It's not in my opinion... Of course, the framework is important, but it is the local government that knows best what its best policy is. That is why we propose to make this more flexible. It is the local government that will decide how to conduct the collection in the case of multi-bedroom housing. Well, it could be. modern identification system. It depends on what methods the government wants to use. This is already on the side of local government, because they know best what method to use due to the specifics of the area. I fully agree with the senators here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u73	Thank you very much. You're asking a question in remote mode, Senator Wojciech Piech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question about the garbage incinerator. How many of these garbage incinerators are there, we already know. There's eight of them. And how much do we need for this energy waste to be used rationally, burned? The second point is whether a mandatory deposit should be introduced for plastic and glass packaging. Well, that's a problem too. At the moment, glass bottles or containers will be returned to the store. You can't because the store won't take it. And that's probably the basis for such efficient recycling. And one more question about biodegradable waste. Urban households have this problem. This is a big problem for residents, because it is a question of where to store it, how to deal with it. In Western European countries, such mills under the sink function and biodegradable fractions are simply ground and flow to the sewage treatment plant. So that there is a much smaller problem. Are we going to promote such solutions, too? Will the residents be encouraged to install such mills in their homes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u75	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u76	Mr. Senator, 8 thermal installations for waste management... Unleashing this list will make the local governments who want to invest in it and I know a few of them will be able to do it, and I know that such installations will be built there. Of course, some elements need to be taken into account. This is not the best form of management and hierarchy of waste management, but there is a faction where it would be best, of course, to use it thermally, in addition to storage, but it is prohibited. The precise definition of the number of such installations is difficult, because it depends, of course, on the size of such installations. But I think that filling the gap that is on the side of private companies today, as far as cement works are concerned, is about 23,4... or actually 3 million tons... It's probably the upper limit, but I'm sure a few of these installations should be built. I know that this installation is being built in Olsztyn. On Friday there will be a laying of the foundation stone as regards the construction of such an installation in Gdańsk, as I remember, as part of the EU grant. Warsaw plans such an installation. As a curiosity, these 8 installations have the ability to take more waste than, in fact, one large incinerator. That is why I recommended in the Ministry of Climate talks with marshal offices, which among others. they are part of the decision-making process. The paradox is that there are incinerators that can accept more waste, but on permits they have saved less and de facto do not benefit from full power. Therefore, the decision to increase the number of permits, which will, of course, give the possibility of one large installation on a national scale... I think that a maximum of 10 is the optimal number of incineration plants that could arise. But, like I said, you have to remember why we didn't want to decide centrally either. As we look at statistics, we look at the situation in the countries of the European Union, we see that the amount of waste we produce is unfortunately increasing as part of our development. Of course, this is not the best ecological phenomenon, but it is, and we also need to measure it against the powers that we have in a country where we can manage such a faction. It's important to remember that it's going to develop all the time. I have pointed out what number it will be today, but of course in the future the market must respond to change. The central decision in this regard was not the best in our assessment. Export may, of course, be complementary if necessary. In this case, as far as municipal waste is concerned, imports are not an option, but we see that these flows are also an element. But of course this is not the best form, in my opinion it is best to have installations. This is why it is so important, all the time emphasized by me, to fill in the investment gap. In the case of the recycling market there is a very large investment gap, because for many years the appropriate weight has not been applied to recycling. Another issue concerns the bail-in system. A project should be launched in January. We're talking to the industry on a large scale. I'm personally a bailout enthusiast. In some countries such a solution is very interesting. Especially the country that travels can see that this market in the countries of the European Union looks different. But we want to draw on the best possible patterns, so this starting point, when it comes to the regulations, will be presented. It'll be for discussion. So, yes, absolutely. I'm already answering the question here. The bail-in system shall be taken into account. It will also complement the system with extended responsibility, this will be an additional element that we will be introducing into the legislative process.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions, so thank you for all the answers. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Senator Rafał Ambrozik. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This draft law is a customs traffic towards local government units. They are currently facing considerable problems in compliance with the obligation to manage waste. This situation also translates into a malfunctioning of the national waste management market. The range of solutions seems to correspond with some of the current issues, e.g. added article. 3aa allows the calculation of recycling levels for 2020 for only 4 fractions of waste: paper, metals, plastics and glass, and not for the entire stream of municipal waste, as was the case in the current legal system. This seems to be beneficial from the point of view of the municipalities. The levels of preparation for re-use and recycling of municipal waste have been reduced between 2021 and 2024. The Minister responsible for Climate Affairs is required to publish a regulation setting out how the levels of preparation for re-use and recycling are to be calculated and the conditions under which the mass of municipal waste is to be included in the mass of waste prepared for re-use and recycled. In doing so, it is necessary to verify the possibilities for each municipality to reach these levels. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the best understanding in the subject thanks to practice has units of local government. They forwarded the following comments to the draft under discussion. Firstly, if the law is adopted in the present form, the change in the level of recovery and, above all, its jumping increase in 2020, 2021 and later, between 2022 and 2025, an increase by another 35% will result in a state of failure to reach the level of preparation for re-use and recycling by the vast majority of the municipalities in Poland to be a general state. Secondly, biodegradable waste should be excluded from the formula for calculating the level of recycling as there is a separate model for such waste, as well as large-scale waste, waste electrical equipment, batteries, accumulators and other wastes containing hazardous substances. Only mixed and raw waste such as plastics, paper, glass and metal should be taken into account in these calculations. Thirdly, the deadline for issuing the regulation by the Minister for Climate Affairs is missing, which could lead to the situation that 2021 will already start or, worse than that, will end and the implementing rules will not yet be in place, so the municipalities will not know how to deal with waste, how to distribute tenders to reach the required levels by law. And another point: large doubts are also raised by increasing the maximum rates for municipal waste management applicable to uninhabited properties, holiday homes or composting biowaste on single-family properties. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, as indicated by the municipalities, I would also like to draw attention to the problem of the municipalities achieving the required level of recycling and preparing for the re-use of the fraction of paper waste, metals, plastics and glass while maintaining the way it is calculated so far. The required level is 50%. The final calculated levels may be affected by the second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic as quarantine waste is perceived as mixed waste and therefore there is no selective collection of waste at source. In addition, the activities of buying-in centres have been restricted. Achieving the required recovery rate of 50% in 2020 it may be difficult, which will result in penalties imposed on municipalities. I very much want these remarks from local government officials to be taken into account, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by pointing out that I will vote on this bill, which doesn't mean I have no doubts, and I wouldn't want them... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: You are still unconvinced.]] I'm not quite sure yet. I didn't hide the fact that ten minutes ago, I called the people who were doing this professionally and asked... I believe you. But believe me, there's a huge misinformation. People don't know how it's gonna be counted, and it's the people who do it professionally. Believe me. There's a reference to the pattern, how it's going to be calculated. Today, in general, people who have been dealing with the garbage economy for decades if you somehow make sure that this information gets to them, I will be grateful to you for not knowing how it will really be. I don't question the direction and validity of the changes in the bill. She's needed. However, I am a self-government of flesh and blood, and therefore I am on the side of self-government. The fact that the bill is being processed is very good and no one is questioning it, but please explain these discrepancies, because the increase by the reduction is not entirely understandable. However, I would also ask for information on what percentage of municipalities did not meet these criteria. Because once again, we are talking here about the amount of about 900 million PLN of penalties that threaten municipalities, but we do not know how many municipalities have met and how many have not met these criteria. Why is it so important? Because some of the municipalities stood up to the task, really did their homework, did a giant job, reached some level. According to my records, it's a level of 40%. The question is, how is it counted? Well, I'm not gonna get into it. I was informed that today Poland is prepared, this is a level of 40%. However, not all of these requirements have been fulfilled, and now some will be punished for not being up to their task. So it's a little unfair when it comes to relations between local governments. Those who have put up money and worked hard, have reached the right levels, are to be wronged and punished in some way. Therefore there are these prices, because these prices come from costs. There are also doubts about old and new contracts. In my town, we have established an inter-city relationship, 13 municipalities, and there is a question of the municipalities that are after the tenders, and the municipalities that are before the tenders. I have information from Poland that inter-city unions and municipalities are waiting for the bill to publish tenders according to the new law, according to the new law, hoping that prices will fall. Again, there is a lack of logic: why should prices fall if recycling levels are to rise? But we'll see. There are also questions here... 'Cause I think I got, like, 10 letters from companies that recycle. They don't really understand how it's gonna be recounted either. There are slogans: stopping investment, which would be extremely dangerous. I hope that all these doubts will be clarified and that the recyclers will not stop these investments. I'm not gonna take up time because I got enough of those magazines. There's also a slogan, passed on by people who are dealing with garbage, that assuming that we now, let's say, are going to lower these levels, that well, it's going to be counted from weight, but we're going to assume that then the increase in recycling level is going to be linear year to year... Well, it's a logical error, because it's unlikely that growth is linear, he won't be linear. And that, of course, also affects fees and costs. Once again, I would like to make it clear and emphasize: local governments don't make money. I don't want to go into polemics now, which the local government has stood up to, and which isn't, which is better, which is worse, because this is where we get into politics. But in general, the rule is... Well, it's a shame Senator Jackowski isn't here. It's not like the community has high prices of garbage because... well, maybe it didn't stand up to the task, didn't do any work, didn't build something. That may be the case, but the locals should account for it, that's what the locals are for. How do you explain it the simplest way... Well, the price of water pressed up there can't be equal to the price of water that falls from that top, so the costs in different places are different, resulting from different characteristics. Therefore, there are no simple answers here. When the price is high in a municipality, you have to ask yourself why this is happening. This is often also related to the monopoly, but unfortunately there is a monopoly, a price conspiracy, a conspiracy of companies that deal with the garbage economy. This may be due to this, but certainly not local governments are the main culprit here and they did not lead to high prices. It's just the cost. Well, I wouldn't want as a long-term self-government officer to make sure that, however, God forbid, there was an external intervention, i.e. Government It doesn't matter. The fact that suddenly the government will wave a finger and say, no, the price is too high, we order you to lower the price of garbage exports. I'm warning you against that. Well, if that price is due to the fact that the municipality Don't give me that. He makes money out of this trash, that's absolutely, of course. But if the municipality bears reasonable costs and this price is high and someone will try to impose a lower price... The rule is simple. Someone's gonna have to cover that difference. Who? Same resident. So we're going to lower the price. Maybe because it's due to the election calendar. The difference in costs and impacts must be covered by the same residents. Indeed, the situation in the garbage market is changing. The Minister was talking about it, too, and I totally agree with that. In a nutshell, ladies and gentlemen: once the local authorities got their money for the trash they just sold the trash. And today, the situation has turned around. Today you have to pay to get your trash sorted out. Somebody wants to pick up the phone at all. So the situation is different. It is also important to ensure that the simplest way to dispose of garbage is not to use it to collect it in landfills, landfills and landfills. This junk needs to be processed, it needs to be reprocessed. Burning the trash isn't exactly the answer either. The point is that made plastic should be recycled into plastic, paper paper, etc. That's it. So, in summing up and counting on the answers from the Minister, I will say this: the bill is needed, I stress, the local authorities are waiting for it. I hope we can clarify our doubts about the details. And she will serve Polish self-governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bladder, Ślski, Gorgon-Komor, Hibner, Gromek, Godyla, Gromko, Łuczak and Brejza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Zdzisław Pup has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Does the representative of the government want to respond to the legislative proposal put forward? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Jacek Decoration: No, it's okay.]] Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs and the Environment Commission to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. Once again, I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act of the Teacher Card and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 265, and the committee's report In print No 265 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll start right away with the committee's opinion. The Commission has given a positive opinion on this proposal without any amendments This is the recommendation. Few senators took part in this vote, but we propose that this law be adopted without amendments. Now a brief description of both the relationship between the commission and this law as well as the law itself. Let me remind you that what is most important in this proposal is first of all to clarify the various procedures that accompany, above all, matters related to the discipline of the teachers themselves. We also have a change and ordering of time-related issues. It is primarily about deadlines for school heads to launch a specific procedure. So far it's been three days, now it's going to be 14 days. And in the context of the various solutions proposed by this law, a platform was also built, some possibility of building a repository of e-handbooks, while strengthening some elements of the system itself, which can generally be assessed positively. What were we paying attention to when it came to the committee? I reported my comments as well as my colleagues, Senator. The first point, however, is that the amendment did not obtain the majority of the physical immunity, the physical immunity of the child. This is where the opinions were divided. But in general, we can say that we convince all the time. This amendment of minorities will be tabled at today's plenary meeting, however, to make it clear in this law. We know the opinion of the Ministry of Education, which suggests that this solution is beginning to be such an attempt to enumerate the various offences that may occur at school. We do not share this view because here we are dealing with a certain set, which is quite clearly formulated, under which we can easily sign. And this solution does not contain any other details that would introduce such enumerative exchanges of various inappropriate behaviours. Well, there's no pinching or chalk throwing or punching, pushing, etc., etc. We all know what's going on when we're talking about respecting the physical integrity of a child. The second issue, which raised doubts, is purely editorial. This amendment has also not been accepted, but it is still worthwhile to lean on it, to consider whether to clarify the deadline for a single reporting element in order to mention very strongly... So, by the 30th day, there's a record there. Every year. Not just the way it is right now. Which I personally noticed... This is my experience as Minister of Culture, we have repeatedly leaned on various solutions, which are related not so much to categorization as to the recognition of the artists themselves. The law itself proposes that there be such a provision: artists with significant artistic achievements. This concept of significant artistic achievement in my opinion is unfortunate and can be a trap. I think it's better to write down the acclaimed acquis. There are criteria for recognising this acquis in every area. In some cases they are diplomas, film awards, number of exhibitions etc., but in any case it is already objective. However, the concept of significant artistic achievements is subjective. And finally, two more cases that are related to the mere comparison of deadlines. In general, we can say that there are provisions in this law that build some flexibility. And the committee pointed out that these are solutions that should be, in short, supported. In addition, it has been possible to clarify the powers of directors as to the possibility of withdrawing from the notice of the disciplinary authority of suspicion of the offence where circumstances clearly indicate that such an act has not been committed. So we're dealing with a notification, we don't need some broad procedure, because we know perfectly well, the director knows perfectly well that such a de facto act was not. It is about eliminating a certain automation that, in some cases, simply imposes unnecessary burden on the Ombudsman himself. One further matter concerning the time limit for the submission of an application for the initiation of proceedings, the time limit after which such proceedings may already be initiated. It shall be noted that, in particular, in the case of an act which fails to fulfil the dignity of the profession of teacher or the obligations of the teacher, and in the event of a breach of the right and the welfare of the child, proceedings may not be initiated 3 years after that act has been committed. Well, it's about clarifying certain rules and failing to bring them into such situations, so that very distant cases, in short, come back in a situation where there are no circumstances which, to put it simply, would be a good basis for such activities to take place. We are introducing an institution to suspend deadlines, which is also valuable. In addition, disciplinary proceedings have been regulated Also, when it comes to deadlines. In general, it can be said that on these points which I pointed out at the very beginning, the committee recommends that the High Senate adopt this proposal without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions, so thank you very much to the senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Unfortunately, the Minister is not in the courtroom, he is not present, so I must order a five-minute technical recess until the Minister appears in the courtroom. [[Adjournment at 14 minutes 22 to 14 minutes 26]] I'm reopening the session. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite Minister Dariusz Piontkowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senators! As the Senator rapporteur said, this law covers several parts of educational law. Some refer to the disciplinary provisions contained in the Teacher's Charter. These are changes negotiated with the social partners, with trade unions, with self-government corporations that simplify or clarify certain regulations. There are also provisions that enable the Minister of Education to carry out a fuller range of innovative activities, which allow for the commissioning of research, among others. institutions such as the Institute for Educational Research, or various kinds of analyses to universities or scientific institutes. There are also records that clearly describe how the remote work instrument will work, e-work, today operating at: e-handbooks. en. He's already working, he's proven himself during the pandemic period, but there's a need for more specific provisions. We hope that this law will contribute to the better functioning of the different elements of the educational system. That is why we are asking the High House to support this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u85	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Władysław Komarnicki, in remote mode... No, room 217. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u86	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have three questions for the Minister. First. I have the impression that the state, through the introduction of this law, wants to close the mouths of teachers who think differently than the state and the ruling party. There were criminal situations where teachers were asked to report to their students who were involved in strikes. Of course, such situations should not take place in a democratic country. My question is: can you guarantee the independence of teachers? Isn't this bill gonna be a proverbial bat for teachers? That's my first question. And my second question. I believe that the provision in the law that speaks of acts that violate the rights and interests of the child is inaccurate and can lead to many abuses. Is the Ministry working, Minister, to clarify this record? And the third question. Amendments are made to the Teacher's Charter, which are to discipline teachers at times where the political situation in Poland does not serve such a debate. The Ombudsman appointed by the voivode, or spokesperson on political broadcasting, is to be responsible for the discipline of teachers. Is it a coincidence that when strikes continue, the government makes such records? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u87	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u88	I think the Senator rapporteur said, too. ♪ and we're gonna We spoke at the committee meeting. That this law was created several months ago when no one had heard of the epidemic, and in no way tightened disciplinary proceedings, which have been operating in educational law for many years. For example, the spokesperson you wanted to mention has been in operation for many years. Also in the times of the state of government it was operating in the voivodeship and there is no change in the rules on the location of this form or manner of conduct of disciplinary proceedings. Once again, I will remind you of what Senator Zdrojewski was talking about, i.e. that this section of the Act rather clarifies certain time limits when proceedings may begin, in which situation they should be suspended E.g. if the teacher is prevented from testifying during disciplinary proceedings on grounds of medical dismissal. These are, therefore, legislation that protects the rights and freedoms of teachers rather than tightening up rigors. Therefore, this law has nothing to do with what the senator was trying to suggest when it comes to discipline teachers or closing their mouths to teachers. None of the provisions of this law even suggest similar action, the more there is no direct provision which would allow such action. Let me remind you once again that these parts of the law amending to a small, cosmetic degree disciplinary action rather serve teachers. For example, this element, which you spoke about, which extends the Director's response to a report of a breach of dignity or the welfare of a child, is intended to ensure that the Director hastily does not report such acts to the Disciplinary Officer and that these proceedings are not initiated too often. As far as the rights and dignity of the child are concerned, indeed... As for the element that appeared during the work on this law, we clearly say that it is a concept that appears not only in Poland, but also in international law, which has been in legal trade for several decades and has not yet raised any doubts. So far, no one has been legally advanced enough to propose a better and more precise definition. In addition, the rapporteur stressed what we also discussed at the Senate Committee meeting that a closed catalogue of acts could not be created that would violate the rights, dignity and welfare of the child. Hence, we propose to continue to use this concept, which already has its practice in legal trade, also operates in the family code for decades, and the courts apply it in proceedings and it does not raise much doubt.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u89	Thank you very much, Minister. You ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, I'd like to ask how much disciplinary action is going on. What's the time frame? Are we dealing with the chronicity of these proceedings... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Mr. Senator, we're having trouble communicating with you again.]] My camera's off, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me better now? [[A little better now, I guess. Try again. We heard a question about...]] Minister, I'd like to ask... [[We heard part of the question about the duration of disciplinary proceedings, and then it started unfortunately...]] How long is this disciplinary action going on? What is the time period? Are we dealing with the length of these proceedings? Similarly, we have a chronicity in Polish courts. How many of these proceedings are taken, how many are cancelled, and how many cases do they end up imposing sanctions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u91	Thank you very much. [[Well, maybe that's it.]] Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u92	Mr. Senator, it is impossible to tell exactly how long the procedure is going on because these are bodies independent of the Minister of Education. I would like to remind you that the first stage of the proceedings is run by disciplinary committees, operating in most cases at the voivodeships, i.e. officials who do not respond directly to the Minister of Education. However, there is information that sometimes these procedures are actually chronic. Such a two - way course could last up to a few years. That's, among other things. That is why we have introduced certain time limits in this law, within which disciplinary action can be initiated. The point is that the length of time that the senator mentioned doesn't appear in the disciplinary process. So that these changes to the terms that we proposed in the bill serve, among others. prevention of chronicity of proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question of a slightly different, more general nature. On the occasion of recent women's strikes, it could be seen that a large group of participants in these manifestations, which were used, to put it simply, in a very vulgar language, where elements of very bad expression were dominated, were simply young people. There were even children there. I get the impression that something didn't play in, I'd call it generally, an area of patriotic education. It's about good culture, but it's also about patriotic education. What are the elements, paths or modules of patriotic education at the moment, and are they sufficient? Do you not think that this should be changed so that we simply do not have to be ashamed of our young people?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u95	Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. It really refers to the condition of the entire Polish education, and not only to the text of the law. It must be made clear that school is only one element that affects how our young people are raised. Let me remind you that the overwhelming majority of educators and psychologists clearly say that cooperation between schools and educational institutions is needed with the family. Unfortunately, here we are dealing with such a situation that the transmission in the family and at school is sometimes a little bit different. Although the Government of Law and Justice is trying to introduce elements of patriotic education. The changes made by Minister Zalewska serve to restore the teaching of history in high school, to restore patriotic education. The school itself will not be able to raise young people well if it does not work with proper family education, although the element of patriotic education must certainly be strengthened. As part of the Ministry's ongoing activities, we try to do so. [[May I, Mr. Marshal? I'd like to ask you not so much as to ask for a clue.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u96	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u97	Well, there used to be a program that I'd call it, preparing children and young people. But mostly children, because such a smaller child simply absorbs like a sponge To live in society. This programme simply created a unified society based on the simplest values, those values that are well perceived by the whole nation, which are sort of common, which form our nation. I mean, the theme tours. I know that now, during the pandemic, it may sound outrageous, but the pandemic will end someday. Well, it won't last forever. Let's hope it happens fast. And the point is, when a child is most vulnerable... that certain values should simply be laid out, some values should be educated in it, and then used. Parents who are busy, who work, often ced to school education. And if the school doesn't take over, it'll take over the Internet or peers. It's not always good, it's not always good patterns. Minister, maybe it's time to change the methods of patriotic upbringing to such a more... History is very important because it teaches historical memory, which must be implanted, should be inoculated to members of the nation, but I am also talking about current issues, about how these young people should become I don't know what to call it simple. "Participants of the community in a good sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u98	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u99	Senator, in the programming bases of many subjects, we pay attention to the formation of appropriate civil attitudes, patriotic attitudes. They are clearly shaped, for example, during educational classes with their pupils, in Polish language classes, history, religious classes, but also in other subjects. We are trying to make it clear that teachers are obliged to develop patriotic attitudes in young people, respect for their homeland, but also appropriate citizenship. However, the school is not entirely capable of shaping young people on its own. You mentioned these modern media, the Internet, which actually has an increasing impact on the perception of reality. It must also be remembered that the Polish law, the constitution on raising children clearly gives the family first place. The school is a supporting element and, contrary to religious beliefs, the worldview of parents cannot take up educational activities, cannot take actions that they would not accept. The basis of the program clearly states that a young person raised in a Polish school is to be raised as a Polish patriot. These programme changes took place a few years ago and are now being implemented in Polish schools. The methods used in Polish schools do not always lead to the right effect. I, too, sometimes have doubts as to whether something should be improved or increased... the patriotic tours you mentioned are also one of the elements of the activities that teachers should undertake at school. This is one of the elements that will allow, through the students' personal experience, more convincing them to such attitudes, familiarize them with what led our ancestors when they fought for the freedom of our homeland, and encourage them to do likewise today. Perhaps it is not necessarily about giving life in defence of the country, fortunately there is no such necessity, but about patriotism being present in the behaviour of young people.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is asked by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz:
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I, a little provoked by Senator Czerwiński, would like to ask the question: do you think that the school has not, in the last five years, stood up to the task of patriotic education? In my opinion, yes. Not everything has worked out in the reform, much, much has not worked out, but actually patriotism and responsibility for the country is probably the success of the last five years. The young people in these protests felt responsible. Young people felt like members of the community, so they participated in protests. Not everyone behaved badly, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Many have shown that they belong to the community. You could say that some actually behaved irresponsiblely, I do not share... I do not support this behavior to be clear, but according to the words of the classic If I say classics, I don't share, but I understand. Well, you could say that. The youth showed patriotic and civic attitudes. I repeat once again that not everyone behaved inappropriately, and the fact that they felt a community is perhaps a manifestation of the fact that these last five years have not been wasted by the state. Is that what you think? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u102	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u103	Mr. Senator, I think you're trying to translate your perception of reality a little bit into the attitude of some of the Polish youth. We don't really know how many students I understand you're asking about them. Did the students participate in these protests? It is only a small part of all students and students in Poland. As I understand it, some of them have the same political sensitivity as the senator, but not all of them have the same political sensitivity. Some of the participants certainly behaved, one can say, at least in a non-cultural way, and some even in a vulgar way. I think some of these young people have given a poor example of good upbringing. We should, regardless of political color, see this negative aspect of the behaviour of some young people, but also of the adult participants of these recent protests. But no one, also Minister Czarnek, at any time spoke about the fact that young people have no right to have their political views or to express them legally. However, it must be remembered that these protests took place in a specific situation When big public gatherings weren't really allowed. It is possible to discuss whether it was a display of citizenship, or rather an act contrary to the law in force in Poland and contrary to the belief of experts, that such mass protests could increase the number of diseases, which unfortunately happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u104	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of National Education Dariusz Piontkowski: Thank you, too.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please address Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I take the floor in relation to what the Senator rapporteur has said about the procedure at the committee meeting. I would therefore like, on behalf of Senator Ewa Matecka, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, Senator Władysław Komarnicki and to make amendments to those points we discussed at the committee meeting. However, the aim is to clarify this child's well-being, i.e. not to mention particular elements, as Senator Zdrojewski mentioned, but to replace words of the right and good of the child with words of the right, dignity and personal immunity of the child. And so consistently insert these terms in all the laws in which the words "right and good of the child" exist. The second amendment consists in replacing words by words by competition. The minister at the committee meeting explained to us that everything would be organized in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, but it seems to us that the inclusion of words by means of a competition will be in line with the Public Procurement Act. So that different entities will be able to apply and submit such offers... The choice will take place in a transparent manner, and this process will certainly make it easier to write down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Władysław Komarnicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, Minister! I believe that today's political situation in the country does not serve a peaceful debate on the Teacher Charter. This debate should be postponed, not just my words; I can repeat what I heard in my conversation with 5 teachers, because it needs to be approached very calmly, to lean on this issue. Teachers and students themselves simply deserve it. These are the teachers of the people that society respects. For many young people, they are an authority. Of course, Senator Czerwiński is right: they shape their attitudes, but they also teach citizens' attitudes. The State has now decided by means of this law to create a kind of bat against those teachers who have the courage to think differently from the ruling party. I would remind you that there are alarming reports that teachers were ordered to report to their students and to inform them of who was involved in the strikes. You will admit that this is very wrong. Such situations in our country should never have happened. According to this law, the person responsible for the discipline of teachers would be appointed by the voivode, i.e. the spokesperson on political broadcasting. This fact alone raises far-reaching concerns, leaves you the possibility of punishing teachers, perhaps for free thinking. I have already pointed out at the outset that the debate on the Teacher's Charter should be postponed. The debate should take place in a more calm time and a very broad consultation should be carried out. Your proposal on disciplinary committees for teachers lacks clarification on the definition of an act that violates the rights and welfare of the child. I am very concerned, given in particular Mr Czarnek's statement that this provision will be used to violate the freedom of teachers to express their views. School shouldn't be a place to fight politically, it should be a place to be proud. The school should be politically free and should impart knowledge to young people, and they have the right to their own views and to express them, of course, in accordance with the rules of our democratic state. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude today by signing these amendments. But I would also like to add that as for the state of education today... I agree with what Senator Czarnobaj said about the state she's in when we discussed the Public Finance Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u109	I would just briefly like to announce this amendment, which I spoke about in my speech. These are two categories: a recognised and significant artistic achievement. I believe that the concept of verification of artistic achievements is important. It is used in the area of culture in a more precise way. And once again, I would like to stress that the objective of artistic achievements can be done on the basis of diplomas, exhibitions, film awards et cetera, et cetera. So it is better to use a concept that has a chance, however, to be a clearer concept than one that will require, in short, interpretation and unfortunately has a high dose of subjectivism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u110	Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but I didn't understand. You've already made a legislative proposal or... [[Yeah, I'll be right there.]] I mean, you have to do it in the middle of a discussion, and you're the last one... [[All I need is a card. There's already signatures...]] [[The voice from the room: Okay, well, I'm the one who can have this discussion...]] Will you extend the senator? [[Voice from the room: If necessary.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] No, no, wait a minute. [[Voice from the room: We'll wait, right?]] We'll wait. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay, here it is. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Szwed and Senator Marshal Morawska-Staneck have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Krzysztof Brejza and Senator Joanna Sekuła also submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Halina Bieda and Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. [[And so do I.]] [[Senator Poor and Senator Matecka, Senator Zdrojewski...]] Senator Matecka, Senator Jazłowicka... [[No.]] No? Excuse me... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Zdrojewski.]] It's awful chaos, ladies and gentlemen. I'm paying attention to my coworkers to keep me in the loop because that's not how it's supposed to be. Again, please. [[Senator Moravian-Stanecka, Senator Poor, Senator Matecka, Senator Zdrojewski, Senator Komarnicki...]] Senator Komarnicki... [[Voice from the hall: Zdrojewski and Senator Poor...]] Here we go. [[Voice from the room: And Senator Zdrojewski himself.]] Good. All senators have already been replaced. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on... I'm sorry. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! First of all, I would like to stress once again that this law does not in any way exacerbate disciplinary action. A disciplinary spokesman has existed in education law for many years, and this law does not really change his location, even restricts his capacity in relation to the time when proceedings were initiated, if the event took place several months earlier. So it makes it easier for teachers to defend their dignity, even to those who have violated educational law or existing standards. I cannot absolutely agree with Senator Komarnicki's speech, which suggested that this bill contains such records. And once again, these fragments of the Teacher's Charter, which are raised in this Act, were agreed with the trade unions, even those with which Mr. Komarnicki may identify himself. As regards the amendments tabled by the senators, it must be said once again that the dignity of the child is a concept in family law, in international law. So far, no better way to determine the violation of the rights of the child has been found. Hence, the proposal of the senators will not improve, and will even hinder, the protection of the child's goods, as the Ombudsman has repeatedly pointed out in his speeches, both present and in his previous term of office. As regards competition procedures for the commissioning of tasks in the field of innovation or research related to education, the Public Procurement Act makes this clear. The legislative process indicates that repeating the provisions of another law is not legislatively appropriate. So that the Minister of Education, even if he obtains the powers provided for in this Act, will have to do so by means of competition proceedings. As far as the 2 cultural amendments are concerned, they really clarify certain elements. There was a discussion here between the representatives of the Minister of Culture, who said that a recognised achievement would have to be documented in some way, there would have to be some way of recognition, probably enshrined in the law or regulation. According to the representatives of the Minister of Culture, this significant achievement is sufficient to determine whether such persons may carry out additional consultations. Similarly, it was explained that by 30 September the competent institution is to announce action plans. As a guess, it will be done every year, because this is how it has been done so far. So this amendment will not change the real way these rules work in the field of artistic education. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u112	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Ladies and gentlemen, at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we will change the order of consideration of the points and will now proceed to the examination of the seventh and eighth paragraphs. If I don't hear any objection, I'll take it the Senate agreed to it. I can't see the objection. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of the bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020. The text of the Act is contained in print No 290 and the Commission's reports In prints No 290 A and 290 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki, to submit a report to the committee. And I should like to inform you that Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka will also present a report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on this issue. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u113	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Act on ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020, is to agree to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment agreements between the Member States of the European Union. Bilateral investment agreements provided investors with protection and the possibility of seeking claims against the International Investment Court on the basis of artifact clauses in the following ways: the investor. In connection with our membership in the European Union, the current agreements infringe the system principles of EU law, i.e. the principle of priority, unity, effectiveness and legal certainty, as well as the fundamental principles of substantive law, i.e. rules on freedom of establishment, the provision of services, the movement of capital and payments. The adoption of the law will ensure legal certainty for investors. The Act was the subject of work by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. And both committees unanimously recommend its adoption by the Senate without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u114	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development, Labour and Technology were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Is there a representative of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Mr. Robert Tomanek? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Robert Tomanek: Yes.]] Do you wish to take the position of the Minister? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the proposed amendment concerns ratification of the agreement on the expiry of the treaties, which were concluded in the 1990s to protect investments and attract them to Poland. In the meantime, Poland has joined the European Union, the situation has changed, so the European Commission and the European Court of Justice have decided that such agreements are incompatible with the Treaties. Therefore, Poland, regardless of the fact that it has undertaken the process of expressing the so-called. BIT, i.e. bilateral investment protection agreements, signed the agreement on 5 May 2020. I would like to point out that the termination of the agreements referred to here will have no political consequences. Nor will it have a negative social impact, or even the opposite. It is to be expected that these measures will be taken kindly because we will avoid the costs of arbitration proceedings. I would also like to inform the senators that the termination of BIT agreements is a process that has been going on for many years. These actions mean a decrease in the financial burden of arbitration proceedings. I ask the High Senate to adopt this law, which in the opinion of the government is beneficial for Poland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u116	Thank you very much. We have a problem because there is no representative of the Foreign Ministry... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Robert Tomanek: But we already know everything.]] [[Senator Jerzy Redwinski: Not everything.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Robert Tomanek: The Minister is in the Sejm at the moment, but took part in a committee meeting.]] Can we say that the Minister's position is also the Minister of Foreign Affairs?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u117	I hope this isn't an usurp on my part... Yes, it's a government position.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. You've solved our technical problem. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have short questions. Are any of these arbitration proceedings ongoing at the moment? Are we interrupting something that lasts? And then there's the second line. Have there been such practices in the past when these agreements were used? Of course, the actions against us, because it was mainly that the investors from outside were investing with us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u120	Thank you very much. Please, Minister. Just turn on the microphone, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u121	Mr. Senator, I hope you can hear me... No, I didn't turn on the microphone. I turned on the vote, which is too early because I'm not a member of the Senate. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. Senator, I'd like to respond this way. There were such proceedings, they charged the costs of Poland. Poland has been very successful in winning arbitration disputes. However, it is difficult for me to say whether there are proceedings pending at the moment. I'm going to record that question and give you an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u122	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? At this point, we welcome the Minister. We have taken the liberty of considering that Mr Tomanek presented the position of both masters, but if you would like to speak on this matter, please. No? Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Alexander Swed and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Commercial and Navigational Agreement between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofja on 29 April 1925. The text of the Act is contained in print No 291 and the Commission's reports In the letters No 291 A and 291 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The adoption of a law on termination of the provisional agreement in trade and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria will authorise the President of the Republic of Poland to regulate the legal situation between these parties. The provisional agreement signed between Poland and Bulgaria on 29 April 1925, ratified on 30 July a year later in Sofia, concerns legislation on the development and strengthening of trade cooperation between the two countries. The agreement introduced the principle of the highest preference for natural and legal persons engaged in commercial, industrial or shipping activities in the territory of the second country. Following the signature on 31 May 2007 of the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the revision of bilateral agreements, the Agreement has maintained its validity only as regards Article. 11, 15, which regulate trade shipping and fisheries, and Article. 18, which refers to among others: to the issue of termination of the agreement. Since certain provisions of the agreement are incompatible with EU law, e.g. Article 2 Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 agreements which are difficult to reconcile with Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) and Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 2 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) d the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union or the Union's freedom to provide services in maritime transport and the issues covered by Article. The agreement shall be terminated by the signatories, which are currently governed by Union law and international agreements concluded under the auspices of the International Maritime Organisation. I encourage my fellow senators to familiarize themselves with this act of 1925, written in beautiful Polish language, in a spirit of integrity and the rule of law. At the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, the senators unanimously decided to recommend that the High House adopt a law without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u125	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! My report will be very brief because my predecessor, Senator Jazłowiecka, explained the matter in detail. All I can add is that on behalf of the government, at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee, you presented the bill to Minister Marcin Horal. So I will not repeat what is already known, I will simply say that the Committee on Infrastructure, without discussion, unanimously gave a positive opinion and asks the High House to adopt it without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. For the sake of formalities, I must say that to the previous item on the agenda from the senator who works remotely, Senator Krzysztof Brejza, a speech came by e-mail to the minutes, so we note that he has made his speech to the minutes. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Infrastructure were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the government's position? Minister Wawrzyk? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: No.]] No? Thank you. But I will say that the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Thank you. There are no volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up for this discussion. And for the record, the senators Alexander Sweed and Krzysztof Brejza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Fund for Roads and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 267 and the report of the committee In print No 267 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Ryszard Świlski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, we discussed a draft amendment to the Act on the Fund for Local Roads. I will remind you that the original solutions of this law are already 12 years old, and the proposed changes extend the scope of the tasks that can be implemented. This directory contains additional possibilities and here I will allow me to present these changes. It is a possibility, first of all, to build bypasses during the voivodship roads, so-called. Bypass tasks, second, reconstruction of voivodship roads, district roads, communal roads managed by the president of the city on the rights of the voivodeship or seymium district, i.e. the so-called. urban tasks. The third component, a new one, in terms of the tasks to be carried out, is the implementation of tasks aimed solely at improving the safety of pedestrians, which will be carried out in the area of impact of pedestrian crossings. Tasks of the so-called Bypasses can be co-financed, as we discussed at the committee meeting, up to 80% of the costs, but the amount of the investment must not exceed PLN 100 million. As far as the urban tasks I have just mentioned are concerned, they can also be financed up to 80% under the new rules. but the investment must not exceed PLN 30 million. The provisions of the Act clearly state that it is the Minister of Infrastructure who determines the number of bypass investments in the voivodship and the number of urban tasks. During the joint work of the committee, the Committee on Infrastructure and the local government committee, we also referred to the proposed provisions for amendments to the law itself. I do not hide that one subject raised some kind of controversy or caused, I would say, a discussion. As you know, the government proposes to change the name of this law so that the provisions on the Self-Government Road Fund change into provisions on the Government Road Development Fund. This element of the record, but also the events of the last days, weeks, caused the discussion during the meeting of our committee to have Quite open-minded indeed. We have remembered, for example, the protests of those local governments in a country that did not receive funds from the Government Local Investment Fund, and raised this element because, according to those who spoke of it, the criteria are unclear, the rules for allocating funds from this government investment fund. This concern was also addressed with regard to this new draft amendments proposed by the Ministry. I am talking about this because this topic also sounded in the second part of the committee meeting, and it also concerned the contracts signed, the duration of the tasks carried out. Again, this transparency related to the decisions, with the criteria, with the algorithm as regards the provisions of the Act was discussed. But you have to admit, and there's no question about it. I would like to stress that there is no doubt about it. The fact that the extension of the event directory, i.e. such changes in this law, is absolutely the right direction. This means that additional local authorities will be able to apply for measures that, hopefully, will also be fairly distributed in terms of criteria and algorithms. And I hope that this algorithm will come up, and so did the voices in this discussion. This is an absolutely appropriate direction. During the work of the Joint Committees, it was also argued that the amount of funding would be determined by assessing whether tax revenues were determined and not by the self-income of local governments, that is also the right step. The senators have tabled two amendments which have been accepted by the committee. Legislative amendments have also emerged. Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, the committee recommends that the bill be adopted with the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u128	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go, Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Excuse me, senator, for bringing him back to the podium... [[We can do this.]] ...but I'll ask you a question. Senator, yesterday at the committee meeting, you asked the Minister questions about city presidents on the rights of a county that is not the seat of the provinces or the seat of the Marshal of the voivodship, and you asked if they were left out of this bill because you were not convinced and you had I'll check it out. Did you manage to find out, and now we know what's going on?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u130	I'll answer that question. I'm sure the Minister will want to speak on this, too. We differ in answer to such a question. I'm still stating and maintaining what I said yesterday at the committee meeting, cities like this. Koszalin, Sopot, who managed or managed voivodship roads, could not participate in previous handouts in the distribution of funds from the local road fund. They may have participated in it in terms of defence tasks or bridge construction, but in this hand related to this simple solution, i.e. reconstruction, construction, they could not participate. The Minister said yesterday that they could. I maintain this statement all the time that they still can't. And I think it's an article at this point. It's an art. 4 in the amended act, lit. a point 2b, referring to the fact that the catalogue of local governments, which I mentioned earlier, is expanding on the rights of the county which is the seat of the voivodeship or the sejm of the voivodship, i.e. 16 plus 2, i.e. a total of 18 cities, does not include local governments of this type, which I mentioned just now. So these cities are still left out in the future distribution of funds from this fund, today called the Self-Government Road Fund, which the government proposes will be the Government Road Development Fund. I'm standing by yesterday's speech. Of course, I am also curious to hear the Minister's statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u131	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister Rafał Weber... You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u132	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I will start with a little correction of the rapporteur's statements. The total value of the peripheral tasks will be more than PLN 100 million, but this amount is a limitation of the amount of funding received for such an investment task. So that the value of the task can be e.g. 250 million zlotys, but the local government will be able to hold up to 100 million zlotys. Now the question of cities which are the rights of the county, which are not the seat of marshal or voivodeship offices. They have been able to apply for funds for investments on municipal and district roads since 2019 under the current provisions of the Local Roads Fund Act. And for voivodship roads, they can raise funds from the general subsidy reserve. So that there is a government tool, a state tool, a central tool that supports this type of road investment. At the Self-Government Road Fund, we simply did not want to duplicate this tool. Ladies and gentlemen, now a few general issues. We are expanding the Self-Government Road Fund by at least PLN 3 billion, as well as new beneficiaries who will be able to apply for these government funds. 2 billion PLN is used to support the implementation of bypasses in voivodship roads. This complements our government program of construction of 100 bypasses in national roads, a program that has been implemented for a year. And this proposal was presented by both President Andrzej Duda and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki because of the apparent need to support marshals' offices, but also city presidents on the rights of the county, in the process of building bypasses in voivodeship roads. So that we spend 2 billion PLN for this purpose. The maximum amount of funding is PLN 100 million or 80% the value of the task. The second new component is PLN 1 billion on 18 cities which are the capitals of voivodships in Poland. And this component is a denial of the thesis that you just gave the Senator rapporteur, a thesis that is formulated by many opposition politicians. After all, in the vast majority of voivodeship cities there are not presidents connected with the Law and Justice or with the broad right, after all, there are members of the Civic Platform, there are people who are mentally, ideologically, with the Left, and this evil government In your understanding, the evil government sends support to these local authorities in the total amount of PLN 1 billion. Well, it's a clear denial of thesis, which is being made by opposition politicians, thesis, and which was just a moment ago also delivered from this speaker. There is 1 billion PLN for voivodship cities in Poland. The call will be organised by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the maximum amount of funding is PLN 30 million. So it is, I think, a significant impact of financial resources on investment. And here we can't talk about any political In a negative sense, the act of the Government of Law and Justice. Third line. If we get savings from the bus transport fund this year, as we have proposed, we will want to use them at the beginning of next year, organizing a call for improvement of pedestrian transitions, appropriate lighting, appropriate marking, so that together with the laws that we are already changing... I came here directly from the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Infrastructure, where a positive opinion was given to a project giving priority to pedestrians entering the pedestrian transition. The lighting of pedestrian crossings will be an essential element of road safety building here. We have a programme for this type of investment on national roads, and we have already provided funding for this programme. 2.5 billion PLN in 4 years will be allocated to spot investments on national roads, i.e. to pedestrian crossings, additions to the pavement infrastructure, investments concerning hiking and cycling paths, coves, intersections with light signals, roundabouts, separators. In addition, we also want those measures which I hope will influence the Government Road Development Fund's account, to support local authorities in improving the standard of pedestrian transitions. So that I hope that we will succeed in this project and that this bill will come into force this year, which will allow us to raise funds from the Bus Development Fund. We also make a few technical changes to the bill, but necessary, which happened yesterday at the committee meeting. We are changing our own income to tax revenue, which seems to be a fairer system for determining the amount of support for local government units, we are replacing grants with payments, which will make it easier for us to settle. And, of course, at the very end, we change the name of the fund itself from the Self-Government Road Fund to the Government Road Development Fund. We believe that the development of roads leads to genuine and comprehensive social, economic and economic development in those places that arise. That's why it's called. We want to give a new tone to the roads. Not only the tone of road safety, but also the tone as part of the overall development of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about increasing safety on pedestrian crossings. I understand this is about the transitions that exist... There's... I'll see you at least... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: We compare masks...]] Yes... Is this about the transitions that exist, or is it about the new ones? And is there a standard, I'd call it, lighting? Because it's mostly about lighting? Indeed, with a certain position of the two sides of the lamp, the transition is visible and safer. Will you simply impose the standard of performance of this lighting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u135	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u136	Yes, Mr. Senator. We will want the local authorities to use our guidelines, our recommendations, which are the result of the experience of the audit of crossings for pedestrians, carried out on national roads. The point is to make these transitions If they are already done, and we are focusing on them, they have just been properly and appropriately implemented, so that at the moment of entering the pedestrian transition, this pedestrian from the driver's perspective is already recognizable, visible and that the driver can react. So, yes, we will want to harmonise issues related to the pedestrian transition not only on national roads but also on local roads. [[This also applies to the present transitions? It's just for example. ill-lighted. Or just new ones?]] Financial resources that I hope will Once again, we will be able to adapt this year, and they can be used both to build new walkways for pedestrians and to improve those already existing ones, i.e. mainly for lighting. Improving the quality of pedestrian crossings is mainly about lighting. Of course, also on the ..if necessary.. Painting or painting of the lanes themselves on the roadway or vertical marking if it is not present or if it has been damaged. I imagine that also in sensitive places such as schools or other public places, also special vibrating belts that make the driver aware that he is approaching a place where he has to pay special attention... Yeah, that's right. I hope that, once these funds have been obtained, we will also fund the improvement of these transitions, which already operate on local roads.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u137	Thank you very much. Minister, I have questions. When it comes to the first of them, it's basically You intrigued me with your speech. Could you tell me what kind of voivodeship city politicians with ties to the Left are running, you mean? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: The second: how much money has been used in the last 5 years from this Self-Government Road Fund?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u138	I'm answering Rzeszów's question number one. The senator is from the SLD, Mrs. Marshal. And question number two? How much money has been used from this fund in the last five years? The Self-Government Road Fund is a tool created in 2019. And in 2019 6 billion PLN was launched, this year 3 billion PLN 200 million. And in 2021, because letters from the voivodships are already coming to us to carry out the formality of reading whether the right side is equal to the left. There will be another 3 billion PLN 200 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u139	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? Senator Spider. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u140	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I've got a question for you to say, a little bit from the side. I'm a self-government officer who's been a tycoon and an old man for over 21 years, and I'm a little sorry about the conversion of the Self-Government Road Fund to the Government Road Development Fund. Well, you argued that, but this argument doesn't suit me in any way, because there are no national roads in the Government Road Development Fund, there are no highways, there's nothing... It's all about self-government. Why was it changed like that? I think it's made to emphasize that it's the government that's giving. I think it's the main thing, so to speak, the premise of this change. And these arguments you've been talking about, the arguments that the roads will be everywhere, that there will be development... Of course you will. But why change it? That's a question on the margins of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u141	Interpretations of our proposal may vary. The senator has the right to one which he gave just now, and I am talking about our intentions, about what was going on with the Ministry of Infrastructure when we changed the name of the fund. I very often use the invitations of self-governments who open these new roads, modernized or built from scratch, and there the word "development" is changed by various cases. I do not hide that this is something that personally inspired me to put such a sign of equality. The self-government road equals development. But everyone has the right to their interpretation, to their assessment of this new name, which was proposed by the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u142	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u143	That's all I'm gonna say. Well, it might as well have been written that this is a local road development fund. Oh, here too would be the development you're referring to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u144	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u145	We have proposed the name of the Government Road Development Fund. That's the proposal of the government side.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u146	Senator Rafał Ambrozik's question, please. Are you Senator Ambrosik? [[Hello? Can you hear me?]] I can hear you. [[Hello? Hello? Can you hear me?]] There you go. I can hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u147	Okay. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, I would like to ask you to answer this question in writing, because it will be quite detailed. I would like to ask how much money has been spent on roads throughout the country since the creation of the Self-Government Road Fund. I am referring to the funds derived exclusively from this fund, broken down into years. I'll have plans for 2021, too. But also... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...the moment of the establishment of the Self-Government Road Fund has been allocated funds... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...in the Łódź Voivodeship. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, the connection is very often broken.]] Mrs. Marshal, maybe I'll say it again. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go.]] Firstly, I mean how much money has been spent since the creation of the Self-Government Road Fund. How many were there in individual years, and how many have been spent in total since the creation of this fund? Secondly, I mean such a precise calculation, how many resources have been allocated to individual counties and municipalities in the Łódź voivodeship since the establishment of the Self-Government Road Fund. I don't care about identifying every investment. I am asking how many zlotys have received individual units of the local government within each further announced call. I'm gonna need the data to be broken down into multi-annual and one-year assignments. And one more question, maybe less complicated. How many kilometres of roads since the creation of the Self-Government Road Fund have been able to rebuild or modernise on a national scale, and how many in the Łódź voivodship? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: There you go...]] I'll ask you one more question, if I may. Has it been considered to extend the catalogue of possible use of these funds to the renovation of railway overpasses? This is a serious problem that communities are facing. I know this community in my constituency. This is a community... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, he's still breaking the connection. Sometimes you can't hear the whole phrase. That's the first question...]] I would like to ask if the extension of this catalog to railway overlays was considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u148	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u149	Railways, if they act as a municipal or district road, can be modernised using funds from the current Self-Government Road Fund or the future Government Road Development Fund. I repeat: if these overpasses are on the municipal or district road, then of course they are. If they are on the voivodship road, then here is the reserve of the general subsidy. These very detailed questions relating to the Łódź voivodship actually allow me to answer the senator in writing. I don't have those numbers in my head. And I have already quoted these general figures: 6 billion in 2019, 3 billion 200 million PLN in 2020, 3 billion 200 million PLN in 2021. These are the funds that were allocated to the Fund in the previous year, present and future year 2021.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u150	Thank you. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u151	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, we've seen... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, close to the microphone.]] ...we saw each other at the committee meeting. I'll repeat the questions I asked there. Maybe there was time to find an answer. Only three questions, quick and short. How much of the last year's money, or of the 6 billion zlotys that were spent on the Self-Government Road Fund, was settled and spent? This is because, of course, there are multi-annual programmes, there are annual programmes, and I understand that very well, this can be done now. And glory to the government for that. Not in one year, but to extend it for the following years, and very well... I would like to simplify the question: if 6 billion for 2019, as you say, plus 3.2 billion, which will be realized in 2020... Please tell me: if 6 plus Three, two is nine, two? That's my first question. Is 6 plus Three, two is nine, two? I think the question is obvious, and I hope that the Minister will be able to answer that question. Second question: how much money do you think, Minister? Unless you have calculations. The net, net, I would point out, from the state budget for public investment directly from the budget was spent? Because I'll just remind you that if the funding is 50% And that's the way it's been. .. or 80%. Okay, well, that's a lot, and glory for the fact that this funding is big... But the money goes back to the state budget. The calculations are different. Not only does VAT return, but indirect taxes return, which is about 50%. So the expense from the net state budget is much, much smaller than the one shown when it comes to destiny itself. This is public investment. So can you estimate what net money is spent, taking into account the money that comes back in the form of VAT and indirect taxes? And the last, third question, I'm going to repeat it. Minister, are there specific criteria for the allocation of these funds for 2021? It's about the voivodships. It's not. What we discussed in the committee It's about division into voivodships, because there's an algorithm, and I don't get into it, he's probably pretty good. My point is whether the voivode, by dividing the money, will act according to certain criteria. In previous years, however to call these funds for the roads that were spent, it was said that there are so many and so many points for the pedestrian transition, for lighting So much for the bike path and sidewalks on one side and the other. There were points, and depending on how good the investment was... The funds received those investments which had the most points. There was no discretion there. Will there be strict criteria in 2021 for whether this money will be shared by the voivodships at their discretion? I'm not gonna finish what I'm gonna do. Will there be criteria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u152	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u153	Senator, as far as question 1 is concerned, the answer is: 6 billion zlotys, funds for 2019 is one thing, and 3.2 billion zlotys for 2020 are the other. I don't have a problem adding these amounts. I don't think there's any such problem in this room either, and the senator doesn't have that problem. So that I will allow myself to ask this question so simply, to add these amounts, not answer, I will leave this question with the senator. As far as question number two is concerned, there was no discussion on this subject yesterday, which is why I'm going to say that, completely on the surface... It seems to me that investors have a return on such investments, so that the investor sort of recovers the difference between the gross task value and the net task value. But as I say, I'm not prepared to answer that kind of question. Here it is more a matter of financial, tax, not a law on the Self-Government Road Fund or another law, which is the responsibility of the Minister of Infrastructure. And the answer to question three. For both 2021 and I'm sure of it. For the years 2019 and 2020 the voivode from each voivodship, also in Lubuskie, described in the call the criteria which were followed in determining the list of tasks sent to KPRM through the Ministry of Infrastructure. Mr. Senator, I have an announcement to make for 2021. This is the call of July 17th... I'm sorry, this is a call announcement for 2020, but I think this is the formula that has been replicated for next year. And it's very clear what the criteria for assessing applications are. Criterion No 1 scaling up the technical standards of district roads and communal roads and maintaining the uniformity of district roads and communal roads networks in terms of meeting these standards; criterion No 2 of the importance of the task for the development of a coherent network of public roads; criterion No 3 of the impact of the task on increasing the availability of transport administrative units and improving the availability of investment areas; criterion No 4 of the impact of the task on improving road safety; criterion No 5 of equalisation of socio-economic potential and improvement of the quality of life of residents; criterion No 6 of complementarity with tasks carried out under government programmes, e.g. Accommodation +., Mulch +., Bridges for regions and others; criterion No. 7 The task is carried out by the local government unit included in the package for medium-sized cities. And on the next page there are appropriate weights, i.e. the so-called. a scale that determines how many points for each of the criteria such an application obtains. I'm sending the senator back to this type of information. They are available, I believe, also on the pages of the provincial office. They can also be obtained through public information. These are the criteria which the voivodeship committee is guided by establishing a list of tasks, the basic one and the reserve one, which later reaches the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers through the Ministry of Infrastructure. [[Can I ad vocem, briefly?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u154	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Mr. Senator, do you want to ask? [[Yeah, I'd like to...]] You're welcome. I'd just like to ask you to be in time in one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u155	That'll be 30 seconds. Minister, I know these criteria. Only that the allocation of money to individual municipalities was not made public anywhere in terms of assessing these criteria. So the criteria were, but if they were used, no one knows. The money was split at the discretion of your voivode. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u156	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u157	I completely disagree with that. Each government receives information on whether it receives support or not. This is where I've brought up these elements related to the recruitment. There is no room for a subjective assessment of a given proposal. I think that each voivode bases her position on the results of the committee's work, which she calls specifically for such conclusions to be assessed, and does not allow such individual interference in the substantive work of the committee, which was designed to do so, designed to evaluate and evaluate these conclusions by the voivode itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u158	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll torture you again. Namely, the definition of bypass appears here. Is there a definition of bypass in any other legal act? Are these definitions consistent? In a situation of such a definition as this... I understand that this road that runs in Warsaw near Ursynów, which is part of the road called the popular ring road, in a way does not stick to this definition. She doesn't run out of the neighborhood, except for a compact building. Anyway, in that case, with that definition... If that's the first definition, you'd have to stick to that definition in other legal acts. Is this only for the purpose of this law, in short, or will it be applied more widely?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u160	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u161	In fact, earlier in the law there was no place to formulate what exactly the ring road is, and this is for a very simple reason: there was neither a law nor a financial tool that would support the construction of ring road bypasses. The investment you're talking about is a government investment. The General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is responsible for it. If we call it an investment bypass, it's okay, but there are those who say it's a new string of expressway, exactly the S2 expressway. So here this semantics on investment has no impact at all. We wanted to determine what the bypass is, so that every applicant has a full conviction that the investment he wants to make is part of this bypass criterion. Thus, in our view, the wording of the "bore" proposed will make it easier for local authorities to determine whether the investment is part of this aid scheme.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u162	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Jacek Bogucki. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u163	Minister, I've spent 15 years in local governments, and that's the second time I've spent in parliament, so that's pretty much how it worked out in this 30-year period. And I remember all the programs, but maybe I don't remember all the numbers. So I have a question: do you know such a period in the 30-year history of local government and 22-year history of district and voivodeship authorities with similar funding to the current one, support of local governments in the field of road investments? Was there a time when... Of course, given inflation, the value of money during these periods. Was there a time when similar support was given to local governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u164	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u165	Mr. Senator, I don't know. And not only because I don't have as much and rich self-government or parliamentary experience as you do, but because we've done a retrospective of the programs that have been so far, and it turns out that, in fact, as far as the scale is concerned, the Self-Government Road Fund is the biggest support programme of local road construction. I will compare 2 values, the value of PLN 6 billion in 2019, only in one year, to the value of PLN 5.5 billion from programmes that were implemented between 2008 and 2015. So that here this scale of support from the Self-Government Road Fund speaks for itself. We have also carried out such verification as such tools are organised in other European countries, especially in the European Union, and at that time we have not come across such a programme which would support self-government construction in such a mass and unprecedented way. Yeah, well... And behind that are hard numbers, this is not my subjective assessment, this is not something that I imagine, and someone else can have a different idea, only this statement is based on numbers, on amounts, on values, and that is why in my view it is valid.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u166	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? No further questions. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the questions asked by Senator Rafał Ambrozik. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u167	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is not the first time we have discussed the Fund for Roads and I have such an irrefutable impression that we are having trouble communicating, so I will try here to clarify a few issues, also to return to those that were discussed during the work of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration. I will start by explaining that local government units do not receive a refund of VAT on investments. During the committee meeting, we asked again about the amounts that were contracted and spent from the Self-Government Road Fund, especially in 2020. We got the answer that it's incalculable, incalculable. The Minister then said that the answer was in a letter which was addressed to me after the previous meeting of the same committee. I found then that I didn't find that answer there, that there were no numbers. However, the Minister insisted. I checked that handwriting. It's in my hands. There is no amount here, there is only a way of allocating funds to voivodships, and we did not talk about it. On the one hand, on the other hand, we have said many times that we appreciate this programme, especially now that investment is so important and its amount, but on the other hand, It must be realized that this amount of PLN 6 billion, so often raised here, on a yearly basis is less than a loss in the income of local government units, also on a yearly basis, only due to the changes in PIT that occurred last year. So local governments have lost their own income, and they have programs for which there is discussion, and it is very justified, about the transparency of how money is shared. Well, you can give examples that some city, voivodship, county, commune got, and of course you can give almost 3,000 examples, because there are so many units of local government, but it is worth basing on analyses. Such an analysis, very necessary and very seriously done, with a scientific approach, was done by Prof. Swaniewicz about a year ago. He calculated how much per capita the funding from this fund was granted in different municipalities depending on which committee the elected governor, the mayor, the president, was. There was a very strong dependence, i.e. These municipalities, in which glazers associated with the United Right are ruled, have been given a number of times, a large number of times. A lot more than those in which the independents rule, and even more so the opposition. These are facts. It shouldn't be at all, and yet it is. Now another fund is still being discussed, but the proposals are equally sad. Referring again to the discussion that took place during the committee's meeting, I will return to the issue of entry into force, the moment of the entry into force of the Rule. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8th Act, i.e. to how the period will count from the moment the municipality and the voivodship signed the agreement to finance the investment. In this bill, which we are proceeding here, there is a deadline until December 15th, and before that it was until December 30th. At the committee meeting, it was explained that it doesn't really matter, because it's not gonna matter anymore this year. I've been reminiscing about my conversation with the governor. Now I'm going to quote the community data. Namely, Mr Andrzej Przybyła is the chief of the village of Kościan in Wielkopolska. Your uncle received funding from the reserve and planned to sign the contract with both the contractor and the voivode for the last decade of December. If this provision were to enter into force retroactively, because it is already after 15 December, he would lose all his work and ability to finance his investment. If the Minister confirms that this is not the case, I will refrain from submitting the amendment prepared, which changes the wording of the article. 10 in such a way that this Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 has not entered into force until next year. Thank you very much, I am making an amendment, and I will withdraw it if the Minister tells me that it is not necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz has submitted a legislative proposal and that his speeches to the minutes were made by the senators: Ryszard Śvilski, Benjamin Godyla, Alexander Szwed, Viktor Durlak, Janusz Pęcherz, Mariusz Gromko, Krzysztof Brejza, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Janusz Gromek. Mr. Senator... Still in the discussion? There you go, Mr. Senator. Apparently, due to the remote call, the call didn't happen. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u169	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Self-Government Road Fund arouses great emotions among local governments. And you must understand us, we, as self-governments. I'm not any more, but I've been a local governmentman for 17 years. This is what we live for, and for us this is a very important fund. And here, unfortunately, sometimes we go too far into political push-ups. ♪ 'Cause it's ♪ Mr. Minister, I'd like to see you again. It's a good fund. Every local government will say that, however we call it, the Self-Government Road Fund or otherwise, implemented since 2008 is a good fund. And praise all governments one by one, that this fund is being implemented. It's a question of whether it's compared to previous years... That and the minister at the committee meeting today applied, and Senator Bogucki. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, this money has been spent the most recently. I'm the only one who wouldn't go for it. The situation was different a year ago, and the situation is different today and the situation will be different in five years. So comparing 2020 to e.g. the year 2008, in which the first money was allocated from the budget for local government roads, is absurd. It's like we're comparing 2032... in 2032 the Senate will gather and say, let's compare ourselves to 2020. I wouldn't go that way. It's a good fund, let's do it. And the money that's being spent... To make it sound like this, ladies and gentlemen, is this the money that's in the budget? After all, today they are spent as money from the deficit. Our children's money, our grandchildren will have to pay. So I wouldn't charge it. Of course, it's a good budget, a good program, for example, because of what I was talking about. And I told the minister that according to the calculations, about 50% money spent from the state budget for such investments returns to the state budget. So I wouldn't go into accurate calculations. It's a good program, we're doing it. But I don't think the comparisons are entirely justified. And as I mentioned, since 2008, the best support programme for local governments that has existed in the last 30 years, every local governmentman will say so. When it comes to ideas, the programs don't really differ. Indeed, it is money for self-government roads, and glory to individual governments. But they're different after all, Minister, with discretion. I just called... 'Cause you said the criteria you read from the voivodship office. You can look, I've seen it. Just now, in the meantime, before you got off the stand, I called the president of the Lubuskie Region Association, a member of the National Agreement of Local Government Organizations, and asked him, as mayor, if he knew the criteria according to which this money was shared. He doesn't, Minister. Self-governments don't know. They got the information... the difference between these good road programs is that you used to know what points are allocated for, you could look at it. And you know what could have been done? You could appeal the decision and show that you didn't, we don't agree with that score. And today you can't appeal, no one knows what the criteria are... They are on the page, but you cannot see how this money will be divided, how these points are allocated. Unfortunately, I say with full responsibility: today there is discretion in the sharing of this money, and the criteria you quoted are only illusory. When it comes to criteria and additional money for roads in voivodship cities, it is a praise to you for this, because so far there has not been such money. One billion zloty you'll split. You are right that political colors no longer play such a role here, because money will be divided according to a specific key. That's right. I just want to see how this money is going to be shared, what the press conferences are going to be, or will there be checks with the party logo again. If that's not the case, praise be to you for it. Indeed, this money, regardless of political color, should go to the voivodship cities. If this is about what we talked about, I hope we can get back to this conversation. It's about the net money spent from the state budget, Minister. I'm not going to bet on you, but I'm still going to say that 6 billion plus 3.2 billion isn't equal to 9.2 billion, because you didn't answer the question of how many programs were settled in 2019 or 2020. We didn't get that kind of information, so we don't know that. How much money did you spend, how much money did you spend, and how much money went through next year, is still a mystery. You, at the committee meeting, could not answer that question today. I mentioned that this money is also coming back to the state budget, that local governments are getting involved in these investments, that they are very valuable, very important. And I'm going to say it again at the end, and I'm going to say it again: if you think that me or we as local governments are introducing politics, then maybe, let's say, intentions are not like that. But just to be clear, and I would like to repeat this on behalf of myself and on behalf of Polish local governments: this is a good program, let's implement it and the less politics will be in this programme, the better it is for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u170	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. Let me inform you that the vote... [[Voice from the room: There are conclusions...]] Are there any conclusions? Yeah, I know that. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u171	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I admit that this is a very detailed and important question of Senator Frankiewicz about the date of December 15th. Our intention is not for local governments not to sign a contract with the voivodship this year, in a situation where they have signed a contract with the contractor or will have this agreement signed this year. Our intention is not to forbid them. And even if that were the case, we could not have put in place such a legal solution. The bill will be adopted after 15 December, it will enter into force, I hope it will continue this year, but it will work forwards rather than backwards. So please reassure your uncle that here he can easily sign a contract with the contractor. If there are savings in this voivodship, it has such signals from the office of the voivodship, then the agreement will also be signed between it and the voivodship office to finance this task. VAT issue. I wasn't prepared to answer that kind of question. I'm not a finance specialist, I said that when I answered that question. So that I ask you to understand. If I said something wrong, something wrong, something that's not legal, then I'm very sorry. The issue of the report that Senator Frankiewicz referred to, prepared by some analyst, who stated that the funds are politically distributed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that this is not the case, that these funds are transferred to local governments regardless of party membership or sympathy of a given uncle, mayor, president or old-timer, shows that in 2019 all applications which were submitted correctly in formal terms and which were included in the basic and reserve list, as many as 13 voivodships received funding. There were such savings that the tasks on the reserve list went to completion. And anyone who filed the application correctly from the formal side and placed themselves on the list I'm not saying that it's basic, because it's obvious, but it's also received this kind of funding on the reserve. And the data from October this year shows that already from 12 voivodships... No, I'm sorry, from 10 voivodships such information came to us. So that really universality and ease in obtaining funds from the Self-Government Road Fund is very large. And even those applications that are on the reserve list get support, they get funding. About the future... I'm answering Senator Tyszkiewicz's questions here. Well, I think there's going to be some press conferences in those places where the government is going to spend money. Well, I can't forbid a Member or Senator from holding a conference in a voivodship city and providing information there that by decision of the government, I hope that also with the support of the opposition, additional funds have been granted, from which the necessary road investments can be implemented. Well, I can't influence Members, senators from any party, any group, or independent ones. So that here these issues will be individual. And I would still recommend press conferences like this. Why can we not tell the public that by decision of the Government of Law and Justice 1 billion PLN was allocated to support in 18 voivodeship cities? And here we can even use this narrative as you do. It did so, even though local government officials did not belong to the Law and Justice. I see nothing wrong with that, on the contrary, it is proof that we are not guided by political indications in the allocation of funds. So that I personally would recommend such conferences. And I hope that they will be conducted, that they will be implemented. We do not accuse local governments of political statements, digressions or political attacks in terms of the Self-Government Road Fund, the Government of Law and Justice, the Ministry of Infrastructure, the voivodeships or the Prime Minister, but some politicians resort to such attacks. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that the conclusion of this meeting today is clear. All enjoy these 2 billion PLN, which will support investments in the voivodship roads and during the construction of bypasses, all enjoy 1 billion PLN, which will support 18 voivodship cities. I hope that even this year we will receive savings that will be redirected from the Bus Development Fund to the Government Road Development Fund in order to launch another recruitment for pedestrian crossings. All this will have a positive impact on road communications. All this will have a positive impact on road safety. All this will have a positive impact on the development of Poland and on the social, and economic side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u172	Thank you very much. I only have a question for Senator Frankiewicz. Mr. Senator, do you stand by the legislative proposal? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u173	No. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Yes or no?]] I'm sorry. Since there is such a clear declaration made by the Minister here before the High House, I believe that it is very important to withdraw it. [[Voice from the room: But there was also supposed to be funding for electricity. Prime Minister, Minister Sasin spoke, he promised. And that's not gonna happen.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr Senator... So, Senator, are you withdrawing your legislative proposal?]] I'm pulling out.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u174	Thank you very much. I'm sorry to disappoint you, but I'm going to try to believe the Minister's word again. Once again, I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 282 and the report of the Commission In print No 282 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure It is an honor for me to report on the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. The Law was established by the judgment of the TSUE of 21 March 2019. I am very pleased that the Ministry is amending the law after this judgment. I only regret that in the case of other judgments of the TSUE, the Polish Government has not changed its opinion. I am particularly concerned with matters relating to justice and judiciary. But I'm moving on to the report on the bill itself. There was a discussion during which 9 amendments were tabled and 7 amendments were proposed by the Legislative Bureau and 2 amendments were tabled by me. Out of these 9 amendments, the vote was positive 6. In fact, the law concerns the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The point is that it is not necessary to issue permits to use public roads by cars with a single axle load of up to 11.5 t. After the amendment of this law, non-normative cars will cease to be all vehicles with axle pressure up to 11.5 t. As I said, the Commission has adopted 6 amendments and recommends that the law be adopted together with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u176	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Yes, Mrs Marshal. Wait a second. We'll find the right documents.]] There you go. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: I have here prepared the introductory word.]] The Minister may speak from the place if he wishes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u177	Yeah, I already have that information. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act implements the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of March 2019. The Court held that the system in force in Poland for the authorisation of vehicles with a single axle load of up to 11,5 t should be considered to be contrary to the provisions of Council Directive 96/53/EC of 25 July 1996 establishing for certain road vehicles moving within the Community the maximum permissible dimensions in national and international traffic and the maximum permissible loads in international traffic. The scope of the amendments introduced by the Act is limited only to the full alignment of Polish law with EU regulations, i.e. the implementation of the judgment of the TSUE. From the date of the judgment referred to, which is used directly, vehicles with a single axle load up to 11.5 t can move freely on all public roads in Poland without any restrictions. The scope of the changes is due to the need to reconcile 2 opposing interests, i.e. the interests of road transport operators and the judgment of the TSUE is the result of a complaint lodged by them to the European Commission. and the interests of road managers who, after the judgment of the TSUE, had to allow the movement of vehicles with a single axle load of up to 11,5 t, regardless of the technical condition of the road. Despite these divergent expectations, divergent interests, we have prepared a compromise solution, not only in the opinion of the Ministry of Infrastructure, but also of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission, which has given a positive opinion on the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u178	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u179	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Traditionally, I already have a question. These restrictions on pressure of up to 11,5 t, I understand, no longer apply. Does this mean that any car of any width can enter the neighborhood road? Are there restrictions on the size of the car? Well, that sounds a little disturbing, I'll admit. I hope that these other parameters of the vehicle will be limited here. Is this the only pressure that's been moved here and that's what I'm gonna say, liberated?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u180	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It's what the senator said. From the date of the judgment, i.e. from exactly 21 March of the previous year, vehicles with axle pressure up to 11.5 t can move freely on local roads, including those which are not fully suitable for this. The sentence only regulates the issue of pressure. There are other parameters that the senator mentioned, which are important when it comes to the admission to traffic on a given section of the road or in certain zones, such as. the zone of residence. That's what causes this, not other decisions of road managers. Despite the fact that this sentence has been operating in the Polish legal space for almost 2 years, because since March last year, and now we are in December 2020, there are no big obstacles to the fact that heavy cars run through municipal roads, residential roads, which are not suitable for such traffic. There is no big problem with that, but we will settle this case from the legal side after the adoption of this law. After the adoption of this law, local authorities or road managers will be able to prohibit transit Of course there are some exceptions that are indicated in the Act Vehicles with axle pressure up to 11,5 t. So we can sort this out from the legal side. In such a real sphere, we have not seen a wider problem, but this law is needed to regulate this issue from the legal side.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u181	May I, Mrs. Marshal, give you an additional brief question? Can the total mass of the vehicle be used here? Is that a possibility?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u182	Not in this bill. The Act deals only with the issue of axle pressure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u183	Thank you. Does anyone else have a question? No further questions... [[Mrs. Marshal, Senator Ambrosik has come forward. I reported it in the system.]] Senator Rafał Ambrozik. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u184	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Minister, I would like to ask whether the carriers who have paid the administrative penalty for their lack of authorisation before the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union will be able to claim reimbursement of the funds paid will be able to recover their money. I still have... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Mr. Senator, you can't be heard again. I can't hear you...]] Hello... Do you want me to repeat the question or... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Minister, did you hear that part of the question?]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: I heard, yes.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: This is just for this part, Minister...]] I asked... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] I asked if... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: The Minister heard the first part of the question.]] I asked whether the carriers who paid the administrative penalty would be able to claim reimbursement if they paid the penalty before the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Is there any chance that they can recover these funds? And here's the thing: how high Could there possibly be these phrases? [[Disruption during the speech]] Hello?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u185	Are you done asking questions, Senator? [[Yes, yes, thank you.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u186	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In this law, there is an appropriate provision that regulates both the fees collected and the penalties imposed on carriers who then carried out unlawful carriages. We give them a month to claim either to recover the fee for granting such an authorisation or to recover the amount of the penalty that has been paid. The amount recovered must be equal to the amount of the penalty or charge which has been incurred. So that these provisions are included in our proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u187	Thank you very much. Anyone else...? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Krzysztof Brejza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Well, I'm still staying, so... thank you.]] But thank you for this item on the agenda. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you.]] We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The text of the Act is contained in print No 281 and the report of the Commission In print No 281 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The Infrastructure Commission at its meeting considered the draft law contained in print No 281 and unanimously decided to issue a positive opinion and to request the adoption of this draft law without amendment. I can only add, in addition, that this law amends the provision in only one point, and it concerns the extension of the submission of applications. This is, in fact, the 2009 Act, then, in 2015, as part of this point, the possibility of submitting an application to the voivodship was extended until 2020. Now it's an extension until 2025. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u189	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u190	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports provides for an extension of the deadline by 31 December 2025 for the setting up of a public service airport, the managing body of the airport of public use and the Polish Air Navigation Agency for the authorisation of an investment in the field of public use airport referred to in Article. 3 of the Law of 12 February 2009 on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. According to the current wording of the airport specialization, it is possible to submit an application for a public airport investment by 31 December 2020. The implementation of the arrangements provided for in the Act will enable these entities to undertake new investments in the field of public service airports, including investments in the construction of air traffic facilities and facilities, as provided for in the regulations of the airport specialization in the Central Communication Port, after 31 December of this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u191	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I have a question. Let me ask you, Minister, if there are already specific, named public-use airports that have not made such a request, and that is why this deadline is being extended, whether you have simply stated that there is a need for some other reasons for the future. And if so, what is it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u192	Ladies and gentlemen, the extension of the specialty is necessary for all public service airports which are either in the process of carrying out their investments or will carry them out after 31 December 2020. I summoned the CPK, but of course the others, the ones that function in Poland... Such an example is also Kraków, which will carry out an additional runway, an additional runway at its Balice airport. So that this law will make it possible to shorten the whole procedure for obtaining investment consent in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u193	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else? Thank you. I'm opening the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Krzysztof Brejza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: Thank you very much.]] We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Specific Solutions to Support the Implementation of Operational Programmes due to the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 293 and the report of the Commission In print No 293 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee. Is senator Leszek Czarnobaj in room 217? [[Voice from the room: Currently Senator Leszek Czarnobaj is not in room 217.]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Maybe he's on his way to us.]] [[Voice from the room: Why don't we move on to the next...]] In that case, I'm managing a two-minute break, sir. I hear the senator's on his way. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, the rapporteur is coming to see us. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u194	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Sorry I'm late. Excuse me... On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I would like to report on the Act on the Operational Programme... and on specific arrangements... related to COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal... But I need to rest for a while. Would you mind if I took a minute? [[30 seconds to breathe.]] [[Voice from the room: PESEL must be taken into account.]] [[Voice from the room: How about the next point?]] No, no. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Would it be easier for you to sit down and talk?]] Maybe it'll be easier that way. Microphone... If you don't mind, I'll say a few words. The Commission has examined this law. As a committee, we have made no comments or amendments. A discussion took place before the vote. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the bill submitted was approved by the committee or approved by the budget committee in a way... adopted unanimously. I would like to report on the process of examining this law. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the observations which have been submitted by the Legislative Office. Mrs Legislator made 2 comments, 2 observations on constitutionality. First of all, the adoption of this bill will not leave you 21 days to decide. But, as the minister said, the government, the minister is counting on the President to sign this bill by 31 December. The second point is, one can say, a more substantive part. Namely, in the opinion of the patron, the law gives the government the authority to issue a regulation on the application of substantive solutions to the new fund, the Fund for Reconstruction, i.e. this money from the European Union for the Fund for Reconstruction, pocovidowy. And carte blanche, giving such authority in the opinion of the counselor violates... Well, there are some constitutional doubts here. Because we are saying here that we are giving authority to the government, that the government will prepare a regulation, that regulation will introduce the whole process of allocating EU funds for the reconstruction process, and in your opinion, the patron is It's too extensive a mandate. There were so many remarks from your counsel. As far as our discussion is concerned, she focused on two points. First of all, Senator Kleina pointed out the reservations of Leviathan concerning less favourable solutions to the law. During the discussion we had a connection with you, who represented the environment of Leviathan, and during the committee meeting it was agreed such a procedure that the representative of Leviathan would contact the Minister and send reservations. In his speech at the committee meeting, the Minister guaranteed that the interpretation of solutions after the introduction of this law was absolutely beneficial for entities that would account for EU money by 2023. The main element of this law is the extension of the settlement period until 31 December 2023. At the same time, the Act introduces a second element, namely it assigns to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy tasks related to the entire pool of money which will be on the social sphere. And the third point is the issue of launching a preparatory process on the development of the money from the Fund for Reconstruction, so-called. pocovid, which is EU money. Secondly, another questionable point was the question raised by Senator Kleina regarding the settlement of libraries. But here, too, was the Minister's statement. And I think Senator Kleina accepted that. That this is a question of the interpretation of the implementing entity rather than of the whole process related to the decisions on individual projects in the field of culture. I, on the other hand, have raised reservations about matters related to such a broad government mandate to issue regulations, actually carte blanche. And here we have the assurance of the Minister that what concerns the implementation of the entire investment process, the EU money-based reconstruction process, will be in cooperation with both Parliament and the European Commission, so when it comes to reservations about some discretion, we have nothing to fear. However, I would like to articulate my reservations during the debate. That's it, Mrs. Marshal. And as I said, the committee unanimously gave a positive opinion on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u195	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You are Minister Waldemar Buda. Minister? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u196	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The law is actually based on one basic assumption, namely the extension of the duration of the law, the basic one, the mother's law, of April this year, which introduced a number of solutions to facilitate the spending and management of European funds, of course in relation to the pandemic, with COVID-19. We responded very quickly in April, we carried out the law process, and we assumed that the implementation of this, we might say, of a certain deregulation in terms of spending European funds by the end of the year would be absolutely sufficient. Finally, it turned out that today we are still feeling, and we will probably be feeling the effects of the pandemic for a very long time, hence our proposal, with the consent of the European Commission, to propose the application of these exceptional rules, to make the spending of European funds more flexible until the end of the perspective by 31 December 2023. And this is indeed the basic provision of this law. Two additional issues concern the appointment of the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy for a new task which emerged in the administration sector. Namely: the management of the development programme, which will undoubtedly be the National Reconstruction Plan, since Poland has joined it and we are already preparing the programming documents. And it is, as a matter of fact, a mandate to continue to work in this area. And a third solution, which in a very similar way indicates the Ministry of Family and Social Policy in the context of the new draft operational programme on food deprivation. And indeed, such a mandate is needed for this ministry to take project, programme, preparatory action to launch such an operational programme. And speaking of comments... there are two comments. One is quite obvious, because it shows that we want the bill to enter into force on 1 January, and at the same time there is no remaining 21-day deadline for the President. We're aware of that. We filed the bill in September. We are also aware that there were a number of other important laws that had to be carried out in the first place by the covid and financial ones that supported entrepreneurs. Therefore, we waited calmly in line and today is the moment of the procession. We have no doubt that this bill will be supported by the President, because it does not actually have any bad sides, but it makes it easier for beneficiaries to have and settle European funds. The second point concerns a delegation to issue a regulation to the Minister responsible for Foreign Affairs. regional development. I have already explained this at the committee meeting, but I will show briefly that this delegation is a kind of exception and is a safety valve for us in Poland when we have to implement the National Plan for Reconstruction and at the same time involve the provision of public aid, and we do not know exactly what regulations and documents will appear at European level. Therefore, if there is a situation where we need to clarify the regulation, this will be the basis for issuing our national regulation, which will clarify possible public aid for the National Reconstruction Plan. Therefore, this has always been the case in this European legislative nomenclature. In the preparation of a new perspective, in the preparation of new programmes, there has always been such delegation indicated in the Act, so that, once the final provision of the Regulation has been made, Because it's still in the negotiation phase, we only have a project lined up... This delegation has always been issued to clarify the specificities of the Polish legislative system and so that this regulation can simply be implemented. Of course, we know the constitution that says that the delegation should have its records that the basic tasks should be the result of the law, but in the case of this European nomenclature it has always been so that this regulation has been supplemented, it has been clarified by the national regulation, in this case the Minister responsible for. regional development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u198	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! At the committee meeting, we talked and we agreed to talk about it. That the Minister will provide us with brief information on EU funds at today's meeting. Is this about extending the billing process to 2023... which is more or less... Because we were talking about what kind of amount this was about. And if there were any other information available, in which industries... So how many funds have we already contracted, how many funds are in the process of clearing and how much can be settled by 2023?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u199	Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps we have not understood each other. I thought it was about to what extent this law could be applied, what part of the measures might apply. And here's the information that this applies to microscales, you can say, because, of course, most of the contracts were extended by this rule kind of from a vending machine. And how many entities are now able to report and point out these difficulties in the implementation of the contract, we find it difficult to predict. Such isolated cases will, of course, appear somewhere, but we find it difficult to determine. If I understand correctly, the senator would be more interested in providing information on the degree of contracting or certification of European funds in this ending financial perspective, yes? It's just that we need to understand each other here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u200	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u201	If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal... Minister, I might be able to modify this proposal because we won't be discussing this for very long. Maybe I can modify this proposal that I had in mind and talk about at the committee meeting, because I see that we haven't really understood each other a little bit. Let's do this: if the Minister could reply in writing to the next committee meeting we're going to have, I'd ask for it, because I'd like it to come to me in two, three weeks, as far away as a month from now, when we're talking about the budget. I would like to receive information from the Minister, which consists of 3 numbers: how much money we have contracted, how much is already made in terms of payments, and your respect. Well, you're not gonna be... Respect, that is, we predict, that what concerns this law by 2023 should not be more or about... The point is to have a certain picture of what scale it is. This concerns. If you could ask me in writing, I would modify this proposal in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u202	Okay, well, of course we'll prepare the data. We have them, we can hand them over right away. Except I don't have it in front of me, and I don't want to make a mistake, but we can do it tomorrow. No problem. [[Good. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u203	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to ask you a question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to a question asked by Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u204	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Rapid action to respond legally to the risks posed by the emergence of the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic has resulted in the implementation of imperfect and short-term laws. One of them was the Law of 3 April 2020 on specific arrangements to support the implementation of operational programmes following the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020, i.e. the so-called "COVID-19'. a fund-specific bill. Its specific task was to enable the implementation and implementation of operational programmes, as this was very difficult with numerous anti-covid restrictions. Ms Marshal, High Izbo, contrary to the optimism accompanying the law of 3 April, the pandemic did not end with 2020. I would like to point out that only this period was covered by the previous law. It is necessary to extend the duration of activity of the specialist. This time the proposed deadline is the end of 2023. The date is correlated with the current financial perspective of the European Union and corresponds to the approach it presents to the subject of the pandemic's effects. On the other hand, new regulations have been proposed, introducing further facilities for the implementation and implementation of operational programmes. Among these are the addition to the regional development department of development plans in the Government Administration Departments Act of September 1997 and the regulation in national legislation of the legal basis for implementing the new policy of the European Union in order to mitigate the social and economic consequences of the pandemic crisis by amending the Development Policy Law of December 2006. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, unfortunately, once again writing the law is accompanied by chaos and haste. The lower House did not have time to examine the same solutions introduced in other countries, it had to stop with the Minister for European Affairs' opinion that the project was compatible with EU law. This raises concern, as in the Act of 3 April this year. Legal experts pointed out contradictions that could result in penalties for Poland. It does not appear that the current bill changes anything in the direction of remedying the errors identified. And as far as this could be understood in April, this is unacceptable in the case of today's legal act. So important for Polish beneficiaries using European funds, the government project was submitted to the Sejm with a huge delay. And the more difficult situation is in the Senate. The bill was passed five days ago. The government put us in the middle of time. We have even fewer days to review the law, and possible errors will result in penalties by the European Commission and possibly painful consequences for beneficiaries of EU aid. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, the bill is to enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement. But, as you can see from the contents of the article. 1 point 7, the solutions adopted by the Act should be effective from 1 January 2021. The President, using the constitutionally available time limit for the signing of the Act, would result in an infringement of the article. 2 the Constitution and its principles of non-retroactivity. The Constitutional Tribunal has repeatedly stressed that the conduct of the relevant vacathio legis must take account in particular of the resulting Article. Paragraph 122. 2 Constitution deadline for the President to decide on the signing of the Act. It's 21 days. As you can see, the government doesn't care if it puts the president in a position where, by signing the bill immediately, it will violate the standard vacatio legis. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, we are forced to adopt the act under discussion immediately in order to maintain the right conditions for those implementing and implementing operational programmes. It is a pity that the proposals prepared do not correct all the errors of the original bill. However, we are looking forward to further work and analysis of the government in order to avoid the risk of conflicting this law with EU law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u205	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u206	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I will leave out the question of constitutional doubts that Senator Jazłowiecka spoke about and which we discussed during the committee meeting, namely this time for the President. First of all, I'd like to focus on a case related to this... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll wait until the senator's done because I'd like to address the minister. [[I said hello...]] Well, that's why I waited quietly. [[... according to good customs.]] That's why I waited quietly. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator Jackowski, please...]] However, Minister, I would like to say a few words about the carte blanche of the government concerned as regards the issue of the regulation. We talked about this. The Minister, you can say, has placed his authority on this, I have understood it so well that what will be the subject of, or the examination of, proposals for funding, or the construction of specific projects, will be subject to a thorough assessment, but also to a certain verification of the European Commission or the bodies of the European Commission. This is a thread, one can say, to ensure that decisions on the money allocated under the Reconstruction Fund, in short, are made only in a substantive way, so that adequate safeguards are built so that they are not just political decisions. Minister, we have talked about how this communal village carries that the use of national funds is largely political. That's what the local authorities say. I didn't have time to check everything out. However, I will read to you, and especially to the Minister, where our suspicion comes from, we could even say distrust. Well, Minister... Because maybe you didn't know then, but now I'm going to quote it to you. In 7 voivodships the rule of Law and Justice with coalitionists, and in 8 voivodships the opposition has a majority. The voivodship received funding in voivodship local governments, but the report here is: those 7 voivodships received 292 million support from these national funds, from the local and local investment funds, and those 8 in the opposition's hands were 36 million. Well, it must be born, Minister, a question. And if that's the process of granting money in the process of post-convidion reconstruction, it won't be objective. What else is very distinctive here, and what is described by the author of this study from which I drew? It's a 9-member committee, Minister, it's a political committee, which means there's a deputy, someone else there... etc., etc. That's not how you build an evaluation committee. I have nothing against individual vice-ministers, undersecretaries of state, state secretaries or people in similar positions, but these are political positions. Normally, criteria should be developed, an independent committee consisting of representatives of scientific communities, specialists, etc., etc. should be set up. The aim is to allocate these funds according to certain criteria. And that is why, Minister, our concern is that these large funds for post-video reconstruction projects will be allocated as much as money for local governments in Poland. I checked it out in my constituency, and I have to tell you that somehow it was so strange that where President Duda won, where Law and Justice won, local governments received much more support than where the second candidate, President Trzaskowski, where the Civic Coalition won in the elections to the Sejm or the Senate. Minister, these aren't coincidences. That's what our hot calls are about, that's why we're accentuating it. Minister, we will want to work closely with you. I understand that you're gonna be doing this so that the whole process of making documentation related to the choice... This, of course, will be created in the government as part of the consultation that is foreseen for such a printing. We will follow this, we will make our comments, but we will also want to invite you to committee meetings to talk about the criteria of the most objective process. We are not talking about any privileges for one or the other or for the third of Poland. This is money for Poles, this is money for the best projects. Minister, I would like you to cooperate with the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance so that we can have confidence in each other. This process must be objective, there can be no political subtext here, etc., etc. That is why I would like to present today my willingness to cooperate with the Minister in creating such an objective process. I understand you're the Minister. In fact, we talked about this at the committee's meeting. The objective creation of documents will be involved in this process. We will want to speak here, of course, in an advisory sense, to discuss with you and the government the creation of a law which will be objective, uniform for all, regardless of political preferences. That is all I wanted to say about our constitutional reservations, and especially about my reservations, as regards the issue of this document, which will arise as a regulation of the Council of Ministers on the allocation of EU funds for the post-covid reconstruction process. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u207	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting... [[Voice from the room: Today.]] Oh, yeah, today. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 284 and the report of the Commission In print No 284 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the work of our committee on the Law amending the Act on Taxation on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance worked on this law on 10 December this year. We discussed the provisions of this law, its different contexts, as well as the legal conditions that are relevant to this law. After reading the Act and after the discussion, we decided that we would recommend the adoption of the Act without amendments. The Law of 27 November 2020 on the amendment of the Law on VAT on goods and services and of certain other laws introduces many deregulations, simplifying procedures relating to VAT, as well as other charges, contributions to the State budget. Firstly, it introduces solutions for simplifying the tax treatment of goods and services by taxable persons, and in particular: extending the time limit for exports of goods from 2 to 6 months in order to apply the 0% tax rate in the export of goods; laying down a rule whereby, if the taxable person has not reduced the amount of tax due within the statutory time limits, he may reduce the amount of tax due in the tax return for one of the following three tax periods. Secondly, it introduces many solutions of a more precise and complementary nature to certain legal structures of the goods and services tax, and in particular: a change in the content of binding joint information, i.e. a decision issued for the purpose of taxing the supply of goods, imports of goods, intra-Community acquisitions of goods and the provision of services; a regulation according to which binding joint information does not appear if the scope of the application for it, on the date on which the application is submitted, is the subject of an ongoing tax proceeding, tax control, customs-credit control or where the case has been decided as to its substance in the decision or decision of the tax authority; a modification of the provisions concerning the split payment mechanism. Thirdly, the Act simplifies the action in the travel tax refund system, so-called. Tax Free, by establishing the basis for the functioning of the IT system on the Tax and Customs Electronic Services Platform for handling electronic documents underlying the refund of travel tax, in particular for issuing and circulation of documents, and keeping records. The Act I am discussing amends the Act on VAT on goods and services, the Act on banking, the Act on excise duty and the Act on amending certain laws in order to facilitate the recovery of claims. In connection with these amendments to the laws I mentioned here, especially the excise tax law, our legislator raised constitutional doubts because some of the provisions in this law did not go through the whole legislative pragmatism of the procedure of reading, all the readings and was already introduced during the parliamentary debate, which is a matter of provisions substantially amending the rules. This concerns the amendment of the Excise Tax Act, which is a favourable solution for taxpayers, but indeed violates this accepted practice, that it is precisely every provision in the Law that should pass all readings in the Sejm. This amendment to the excise duty Act extends the period of exemption from excise duty of a passenger car which is a hybrid vehicle within the meaning of Article 31 December 2022. 2 point 13 of the Act of 11 January 2018 on electromobility and alternative fuels with an internal combustion engine capacity of 2 000 cm3 or less. I think it was... There's a few procedural doubts here. We considered this at the committee meeting, but we considered that, since these provisions, these proposals which were adopted by the Sejm, were beneficial to the taxpayer... Therefore, we have finally adopted the position that we accept the adoption of this law without amendments. I would like to draw attention to one more element, so that this law is to enter into force from 1 January next year. As a result, the deadlines that we can best give... Even if this law were passed today, adopted without amendments and addressed to the President, the President would still not have the 21-day deadline to consider the bill sent by Parliament and decide whether to sign or not to sign it. Thus, the issue of proper vacathio legis also raises constitutional doubts. But, as I said, after the discussion, after considering the matter, we decided that we would recommend adopting this law without amendment. At the meeting of our committee, we drew attention to these findings and to the recent amendment of the law on the tax on goods and services, which was adopted last year... At that time, there was a declaration from the Minister of Finance that he would assess how certain provisions had worked in practice, particularly those relating to tax rates which had changed quite substantially, and if necessary Mr. Minister felt that such a need could arise. This is the next amendment, and this is the next amendment, it will propose some changes. At the time, we drew attention, also at the committee meeting, to certain provisions relating to certain unequal treatment of goods which have exactly the same purpose One is subject to a reduced tax and the other is subject to a basic tax of 23%. I think you're going to tell the Minister more about this. And that was our request at the committee meeting. It will address all the concerns raised at the committee's work stage. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u209	Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. We often update these tax laws. A year ago, on the occasion of the VAT novel, we were talking about a matrix. Tell me if this matrix is changing in the context of these assumptions. If so, to what extent and if not, to what extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This law generally does not apply to matters relating to the tax rates that consumers pay by buying one or another. The issue of tax rates, so to speak, came up in the debate fervor, as a reference to earlier legislation. It was probably July 2019 when we adopted this law, the new VAT Act. Then, when we looked at these tables with rates, etc., we noticed that certain taxes were imposed in such a way that they could raise consumer concerns. And then there was a declaration from the Minister that the time since that fundamental, serious, major amendment of the VAT Act, which was necessary at that time, would be used to assess how the market is actually behaved and what the effects on producers, sellers of goods and consumers have on them, rather than on other VAT rates. We expected at least a brief information on this subject to be presented at this meeting, especially as there were declarations on specific products. But as I say, this law concerns procedural and simplifying matters. She doesn't care about those things you're asking about. I think about the problems with the stakes. We discussed them at the committee meeting. In his speech, the Minister will respond and tell you why this matter, I say, has not been carried out. Because it wasn't done, it didn't look like it was done at least on December 10th this year. The Minister will probably say whether he sees these problems with VAT rates and whether he thinks certain things should be modified. I hope that this matter will be dealt with satisfactorily on the occasion of the next amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Rafał Ambrozik's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u214	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, I would like to ask whether the solutions contained in the Act will affect the revenue of the public finance sector. If so, how and possibly how much money can we talk about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this bill will affect revenue because, for example, the period of exemption from excise duty of passenger cars is extended. In other words, if that time limit were to remain in the statutory provisions, then the exemption from excise duty of passenger cars constituting a hybrid vehicle would no longer apply as from 1 December 2021, etc. But in general, in principle, this law does not cause a loss in the revenue of the state budget. It could be small amounts, and according to my orientation, it's rather... We have, frankly, not discussed this at the committee meeting, because the whole law is a law, so to speak, which facilitates the procedures relating to VAT settlement. So the question of revenue to the state budget was not the subject of any particular discussion. But it seems that if it's affected, then... After reading this law and analysing the documents that we had at the committee's meeting, we believe that this change can have a small, very small impact.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u217	Thank you very much, Senator. I state that there are no more people, ladies and gentlemen of the senators who would like to ask a question. Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] I inform you that the bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes, Minister? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister Jan Sarnowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u218	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The package of changes presented today in the Savovska Act is a package implementing the first wave of simplifications in the tax on goods and services. Simplifications which the Ministry of Finance collectively defines as Slim VAT. It is an acronym for simple, local and modern words, i.e. modern tax, simple to use and adapted to the specifics of the country in which it operates. Well, the philosophy of the changes being implemented is linked to the fact that with the introduction of further administration services, along with progressive technological development, we can give up a lot of formalities that were a nightmare for entrepreneurs. So that right now we are implementing the first package of this kind of simplification. It is the result of an audit carried out at the Ministry of Finance. Audit, which is permanent. We ran it in the first half of last year and it lasts all the time. In the semi-annual amplitude, the Ministry of Finance wants to present further packages of simplifications in the vat regulations. What exactly does this package contain? Well, above all, simplification for exporters. Companies that send goods abroad, outside the European Union, without the negative consequences of vatov will be able to wait three times longer to complete the transaction. This period will be extended from 2 to 6 months. We're introducing a current VAT settlement. The deadline for billing invoices will be extended by 1/3, from 3 to 4 months. What else? Companies will not have to observe invoices in minus, in case of settlement, e.g. a discount that has been granted to the trader by his counterparty. So that there are 7 very important facilities for companies. We hope to present another simplification package in the next 2 or 3 months. With regard to the issues raised by your President, I would like to say that one of the elements of this law is indeed the amendment of the excise legislation, the issue of excise duty on hybrid cars. This was included in this particular project, because we wanted this exemption to enter into force as soon as possible so that it could function smoothly without any loopholes. Vacatio legis. Well, here the threat is minimal. The Ministry of Finance is in constant contact with the President, the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. In the case of the Senate's positive reference to this project, we assure you that the bill will be signed by the President on time. As far as Senator Jackowski's question is concerned, as far as this bill is concerned, the VAT rate matrix has not changed at all. The question raised by Senator Kleina. Indeed, the question of the Ministry of Finance is now the question of belts that could replace child seats, and excise duties... excuse me very much, not excise duties, only VAT on them. Indeed, the VAT rate for seats under the new matrix was reduced from 8% to 5%. Question: Can another commodity, in this case a particular type of belt, be classified according to the Union nomenclature As a chair, too? This is unfortunately the subject of analysis and no longer at the Ministry of Finance, but at the level of the European Union. We have already asked our representatives in Brussels accordingly. We hope that we will have specific information on this in a few weeks' time. As regards the act of the Act in relation to tax revenue, they will actually fall by about PLN 160 million next year as a result of its implementation. This is precisely the result, as the senator rightly pointed out, of the shift in certain deadlines and also of the extension of the possibility for companies to give small gifts. Their top limit was 10 zł per gift and 100 zł per gift per year. Now this single gift limit will double to PLN 20. We hope, while observing changes in the behaviour of entrepreneurs, that the National Tax Administration will also give us the green light, so that this limit will continue to increase and be increased at further stages in the drafting of laws simplifying the rules of Vatovsky, so that entrepreneurs will be as comfortable as possible when it comes to carrying out advertising activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u219	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute. I'm very keen on this. Questions to the representative of the government related to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u220	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, thank you for your reply. I know this matrix hasn't changed here. I have a question. It's kind of an extension of what Senator Klein was talking about. Is he being considered... Was there any reflection on those rates that are currently in force? And is there any change to be expected here? Is there any analysis going on in this regard? And if so, will they be presented at the meeting of the Senate Finance Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u221	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u222	The Ministry of Finance is constantly observing the reactions of entrepreneurs also to the newly implemented matrix. Let us remember that it came into force on 1 July of this year, that is, the experience of applying it is actually shorter than six months. We can say that we are some pioneers here, because like now other countries are lowering VAT to give a certain breath to the economy as well. Germany is a very bad example. It must be admitted that Poland had already worked on this project much earlier and implemented it in the middle of this year. The introduction of a new matrix of VAT rates results in leaving in the pockets of entrepreneurs, but above all families, almost half a billion PLN. And that is half a billion PLN, which was devoted by families, also by the smallest taxpayers mainly to the products of the first need. 'Cause what was the VAT cut for in the middle of this year? For first-time articles, for fruit, for baby diapers. Even child seats, which have fallen from 8% to 5%, are a very good example. So that we observe the situation on the market and, of course, we will respond in an appropriate manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u223	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Robert Dowhan is the next senator who wants to ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u224	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'm really impressed that you guys keep lowering something, and that's all the money that's left in your pockets. I didn't notice it, but maybe the others did. I think that these baby seats or diapers are not sold in enough bulk to translate into PLN 0.5 billion, but if it works, it's very good. I have a question for you. I've been asking that question for a few years now, and I don't get an answer, not just from the PiS government, also earlier, so maybe it's a little out of the question, but the Minister will help. If there is an increase in excise duty and excise duty on alcohol products is changing, there is no need to stick a new excise duty at the end of March, which is absurd, but on tobacco products you have to make refunds, you have to apply for new excise duties or just destroy or sell it from under the counter, because it is already a crime. Isn't there something you can do about it? Someone once introduced a rule that when there is a change of excise duty, the color of the band changes, etc., the amount, then in the case of tobacco products there is a deadline of probably 3 months and you have to have a new excise duty. If someone doesn't, especially somewhere in the villages, in small shops, and they have one package, that's a big problem, then there's court proceedings. I don't know why this recipe is supposed to serve, because no one, first of all, doesn't make supplies, second of all, if he makes supplies, he's gonna pay the tax and all... Someone on March 29 buys goods with a normal excise duty, and on March 30, this product is already becoming a commodity that makes someone liable to be punished for a crime... Well, that's sick to me. Is there anything you can do about it? Because we've really been fighting for this for so many years, and it's still the same thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u225	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u226	We are in constant dialogue with representatives of the tobacco industry and with the National Tax Administration as regards the importance of excise marks on tobacco products and the possible need to change them at the end of a certain period. Leaving this regulation is justified by our colleagues in the administration by the characteristics of the tobacco market, the size of the grey zone and the rate of counterfeiting of excise marks by the operators who import or possibly produce these goods. But we are still open to dialogue and, if possible, we will be very happy to change that. I will also be happy to give a detailed answer to this question in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u227	Thank you very much, Minister. As I can see, there are no more questions to ask. I therefore thank the Minister very much. I'm opening a discussion. I state that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the senators Alexander Swed and Mariusz Gromko made speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today at the end of the Senate meeting. Today, I repeat. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 287 and the committee report In print No 287 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Jack Bogucki, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The report is very brief. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, after considering the Act at its meeting on 15 December 2020, requests that this Law be adopted without amendment. The Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws concerns matters relating to the simplification of the rules for monitoring the supply of excise goods using the electronic system, the relevant electronic system set out in that Act. The Act also introduces in this system the monitoring of sales of excise-free coal products by entities which sold more than 30 000 tonnes of coal products in the previous year. The Act also applies to movements in imports and exports of excise goods. It also regulates the rules for monitoring excise goods sent by pipelines. The Act also introduced the abolition of the obligation to pay the tax levy for the acceptance of the registration application and, in view of the pandemic situation and the requests of traders, the period until 31 January 2022 was extended by one year to allow the exercise of duties in the field covered by that Act through paper documentation. As I have already mentioned, at the committee meeting, the law was adopted unanimously without amendments. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u229	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? As the bill was adopted unanimously, as the Senator rapporteur informed us, we are not surprised that there are no people willing to ask... [[You think senators, members of the committee, Mr. Marshal, I don't know, but the fact that you adopted unanimously is for sure.]] Well, I have no reason to doubt your report. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Finance, Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Jan Sarnowski: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. However, at present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I'm not surprised to say no one. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Alexander Swed and Benjamin Godyla made speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today at the end of the Senate. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 269 and the report of the Commission In print No 269 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Perhaps, Mr. Marshal, I will have a request when my breath is broken so that I can take off my mask a little bit... [[But, Mr. Senator, first of all, I won't be helping you, because I don't know anything about it, except in other ways. And second of all, I'm not in control of giving you permission...]] Okay, thank you. ...or forbid you from wearing a mask. Don't put any heavier responsibilities on me than... Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 20 November 2020 amending the Law on Government Administration Departments and some other laws. On 20 November 2020, the Senate Marshal sent the Act to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The committee meeting was held on 10 December 2020. And after the examination of the bill, the committee brings: the High Senate will approve the attached draft resolution. At the same time, the committee proposed to introduce 21 amendments to the text adopted by the Sejm, which I will talk about later in the report. The proposed law amends the Law of 4 September 1997 on the departments of government administration and subsequent amendments to the provisions of up to 66 other laws. The proposed solutions aim at adapting the structure of government administration to the new reconstructed structure of the Council of Ministers. Their effect is expected to be to increase the efficiency of the state administration while reducing the costs of its operation by reducing the number of employees. This is to be achieved by consolidating the decision-making process with fewer ministers Members of the Council of Ministers. Projectors also believe that further optimization of government structures is necessary, taking into account the need to ensure rational and efficient use of government staff. Therefore, amendments are also made to the Act of 16 September 1982 on employees of public authorities, to the Act of 8 August 1996 on the Council of Ministers and to the Act of 21 November 2008 on Civil Service. Law separates 3 new departments of government administration: forestry, geology There's a new body here, i.e. the main geologist of the country And the administrative center of the government. I will briefly discuss other important changes in the laws on civil servants, civil service and the Council of Ministers when discussing the votes presented during the committee's work. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, so far it has been said that when I was rapporteur for the Committee on Local Government and State Administration or the combined Committee on the Environment, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate and Infrastructure, I had the pleasure of discussing laws on which there was no comment on the correctness of the legislative process. The time taken to process them was long enough for pre-consultation, public consultation, comments, conclusions and views of stakeholders to be taken into account. This cannot be said about the Law on the amendment of the Government Administration Departments Act that has been adopted today. The draft law constitutes a government submission of 17 November 2020. The first reading of the project took place on the following day, 18 November 2020, at the twenty-first meeting of the Sejm. After the Sejm failed to take into account the motion to reject the law, the draft law was sent to work in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. On the same day, the committee adopted a report recommending that the Sejm reject the law. At the same meeting, on 19 November 2020, after a second reading, he re-directed the bill to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to examine the proposal and the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the proposal and amendments at its meeting on the same day, 19 November, presented a report recommending the adoption of the draft and 6 amendments. The report also includes a motion to reject the law. The Sejm carried out a third reading in late evening hours and passed the Act as early as 20 November 2020, taking into account the amendments tabled, had previously failed to take into account the proposal to reject the draft law. During the committee's work In view of the many detailed comments and proposals of the amendments contained in the opinion to the Act drawn up by the Polish Senate Legislative Office, the main legislator Beata Mandylis accepted the principle that these comments would be discussed in order for the legislator to present them. The discussion had already started in discussing the second comment on Article. 2 on the remuneration of managers of public positions and the third remark concerning Article. 4, which amended the provisions of the Act on employees of public authorities. The present law is to transfer the undersecretary of state to a group of senior officials in the civil service corps. The Act on the remuneration of persons holding state positions only leaves the position of Undersecretary of State, Deputy Minister in the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, and in the article. 4 The amended laws give the President of the Council of Ministers the opportunity to indicate in the Regulation organisational cells in government offices whose employees will not be covered by the status of a member of civil service will simply be civil servants. What's causing this? First of all, change the status of people already working, change the requirements and rules for the recruitment of new workers and their qualifications, change the rules for dismissal in these cells. The employer will not be required to organise open and competitive recruitment for job vacancies. What the consequences are, I don't have to explain. It is no less important to abolish the obligation to remain impartial and politically neutral. A member of the Civil Service Corps shall not be allowed to publicly manifest political views or link employment in the civil service with the Councillor's mandate, and if he is an appointed official, he shall also belong to political parties. The Act on Officials of State Offices does not provide for such restrictions. Senators: Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Janusz Pęcherz, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Zygmunt Frankiewicz spoke on these solutions. The conclusions were practically the need to remove from this law those articles which allow the employment of persons in government administration without open competitions, do not provide practically any objective substantive and formal criteria for excluding individual organisational cells from the regulation of the Civil Service Act. According to the senators speaking in the discussion, but also in accordance with the opinion of the Association of Graduates of the National School of Public Administration, this can lead to a reduction in the quality of management and stubbornness of government structures by getting rid of apolitical, well-prepared officials of the Polish state. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski even proposed to introduce an amendment removing from the bill all the provisions that could be used to exempt these workers. By adding their votes to Senator Kwiatkowski's proposal, the other Senators mentioned earlier drew attention to these provisions of the Act related to the article. 4 which allow circumvention of the existing rules on the remuneration of Undersecretaries of State by including them in the Civil Service Corps. Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4. They called it a way of doing things through the back door or entering the church before the sacristy. Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz proposed that the government draw up a bill to increase the authorisation of Undersecretaries of State, a project that was transparent and transparent enough to be able to support him. Because wage regulation for this group of employees is certainly needed. Finally, the amendments that have been voted on this issue have deleted the article. 2, Article 4, Article 13, in Article 13, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14 (10), Art. 16, Art. In Article 28, the following paragraph is added: Article 34 (1), first subparagraph, point (b) is replaced by the following: 40 (1) to (8) and Article 40 (1) and (4) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 101.104. A bit of discussion was also raised by the article. 21 Act amending the Foreign Service Act by amending the content of the standard in Article. 28a. The amendment was voted in order to restore specific requirements for candidates for management positions at the office serving the Minister for Foreign Affairs. This included, among others, the following: knowledge of foreign languages and taking a diplomat's/consulary examination. Senator Komorowski tabled an amendment from which he later withdrew due to the need for serious clarification. It concerned the employment of judges in the Ministry of Justice who cannot be civil servants, and according to the regulations of this law they would become civil servants. Therefore, it is necessary to amend the proposed amendment and to withdraw it. A long discussion, contrary to expectations, has sparked a new mouth. 2g added to Article 14 Act on the Council of Ministers, which grants the President of the Government Legislative Centre and his deputy the right to participate in the voting of the Legislative Board. At the same time, the Act does not indicate that the President of the RCL is a member of this Council. This means that an entity which is not a member of a collegial body, such as the Council, would have the right to vote in that body. Such records may lead to problems of different nature, e.g. quorum, calculation of majority votes, etc. There are various solutions that can be repeated here today. Well, for example. The senator may attend meetings of committees which he is not a member of may submit amendments but may not vote. Also with regard to the added provisions of Article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2h, 2i, 2j and 3 may arise confusion and interpretation problems concerning persons invited to participate in the work of the Council and remunerated for participating in the work or for drawing up materials, opinions or expertise. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski expressed his strong opposition to such solutions, referring to the well-established recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber in this regard. What else is participation in the work for which the remuneration is due, and what is another participation in the meetings, which results from the performance of duties in another State institution. Invited to participate in the work of a person's council, e.g. The President of the Constitutional Tribunal, the President of the Supreme Court, the President of the NSA, etc., will receive remuneration, which follows directly from the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2j. The question arises, what will happen when there are legal, constitutional disputes, etc. Well, you can ask for independence or independence here. The committee therefore proposes a number of amendments to the Article. 14. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u231	Thank you, Senator. And I'm glad it didn't have any health problems during your speech. [[Yes, thank you. That's because the marshal cheered me up.]] Oh, that's great. Well, then I'm glad I have therapeutic abilities. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome. [[I wanted to subscribe to the government representative's question. I'm sorry if I misinformed you.]] Well, in that case, please... I understand you're Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[Yes.]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u232	Mr. Senator, I have the following question about this particular bill. It's about whether the committee's meeting said that... because the salaries of people in the rank of Undersecretary of State are changing. Does that mean that for example. The members of the pedophilia committee, who, as far as I know, are employed undersecretaries of state, will automatically receive a significant increase? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u233	Mr. Senator, there was no discussion about that. There has been a discussion on pay for work and we would therefore like to say strongly that these Presidents may attend the meetings of the Legislative Council. Whether it's the Supreme Court, whether it's the NSA or other institutions invited But only as persons who are not entitled to remuneration. Well, in this record, which is here today, it is said that remuneration should be paid for participating in this work. That's why it's gonna be hard here... Well, the president of RCL said he'd never taken any pay so far, but that doesn't mean anything, because the records are that this salary will be due.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. You have an additional question, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u235	Thank you very much. And was there any mention of this... Because in the light of this law, the Undersecretaries of State will receive a significant increase, because, as it appears from what happened to me, it will increase from about PLN 10,000 gross to PLN 17,000 gross. Thus, when the law enters into force in this form, there may be a situation that the Under-Secretary of State will be much better endowed than the Secretary of State, the Constitutional Minister and even the Prime Minister. Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u236	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u237	We were talking about, of course, it's a move... I pointed out here today that it was said that you want to enter the church through the sacristy or that there is, let's say, another way to settle the raises for high government officials. Then I referred to Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, who, seeing what the senator is talking about, said that he was in favour of a transparent solution, that is to say, that the government should prepare a solution regarding the salaries of senior government officials and say in an official manner that, because there are new tasks and new obligations, there are many tasks arising from, for example, a pandemic, which we also refer to in the justification of this law... He said it'd be transparent, let everyone know what they're getting paid for, that it's that kind of money, not that kind of money. Then there will be a completely different conversation. Whether we are in favour of this solution and say: well, let's introduce such solutions, but let's do so today that we are introducing them, but they will apply until the pandemic is resolved and for example. A year after the pandemic... We can... I don't know what we'd do in a situation like this. Nevertheless, such a discussion was and indeed more or less about this amount... I didn't even hear it was $10,000. But maybe it is. Maybe I've heard of $6,000 net. [[No, I'll correct it so it doesn't happen, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u238	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u239	At the moment, the Undersecretary of State has a salary of PLN 10,000... [[Oh, I see.]] ...but, as I understand it, in the light of these design changes, it would increase to about 17,000... [[Oh, yeah.]] ...that's not $10,000, as the senator said... [[Yeah, yeah, I get it.]] ...because it could be a lie. Thank you. [[Okay, thank you for explaining.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja, who will do so remotely. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me?]] Yes, I can hear you, Mr. Senator. And you can see that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question. Is it true? I continue with the thread raised by Senator Jackowski That these increases will amount to as much as PLN 10,000 for the Vice-Ministers? And is it true that funding such increases in pandemics must raise serious doubts? Is it true that, in addition to being 10,000+, the obligation to make property claims will be removed from the Vice-Ministers? And does this law include, in addition to the new programme 10000+ for Vice-Ministers, also a significant increase in the salaries of the members of the Legislative Council Because there'll be no more 20 of them, and you can multiply them any way you want.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u242	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u243	Mr. Senator, these are more or less the conjectures that have been presented here. It wasn't quite clear how much it was supposed to be. Those who are more analyzing the remuneration tables may know that, as Senator Jackowski has raised, this is a regulation that will raise today's salary of PLN 10,000 to PLN 17,000. This may have been the case, but none of the representatives of the government who were at the committee meeting exchanged any amounts of remuneration. We're just, uh, considering this bill... In fact, we have a little bit of an idea that this might be the case, but this has not been confirmed, certainly not during the discussion at the committee meeting. As for the remuneration of the Legislative Council, it is certainly the legislator and Senator Kwiatkowski who raised the problem strongly that from these records it is clear that if you participate in the work, you should be paid.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u245	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Because I'm not on the committee... I would not want the speeches to concern only the remuneration of newly appointed civil servants. So I have a question for you. This is a law amending the departments of government administration and in connection with it many of the issues that occur on a daily basis have been transferred from department to department. And for a good cause, you don't know what's causing it. Has someone new appeared, who needs to be given a position, or was there perhaps a deeper analysis of what should be in a given section? I'm concerned about some of the records. Why, for example? Is there such a thing as the National Sports Centre? And what will the Minister of Sport do? First question. Why the State Forests... Why do forest management and hunting move to agriculture? They've been to the Ministry of Environment so far. It is simply that the competences of the Ministry of Environment are reduced by translating various other, say, economies into other places. Water management is also thin. Some of it's in the economy... Well, shipping, maritime affairs, etc. To me, the environment is actually such a thing as climate, water, nature. It's all together. What about nature? Forests are actually part of forest management, cutting wood and making profit, while national parks, which need to be financed, are in the Ministry of the Environment. It's one thing that doesn't connect to the other. Mr. Senator, was that mentioned? Widener, was she... Was the committee meeting dominated by the issue of the earnings of the newly created civil service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u246	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u247	Thank you very much. Senator, there was virtually no mention of those departments that are eventually relevant in this bill. I'm having trouble answering that question because, at one time, when I was president of the city, when I entered the city hall, I also looked at the organizational structure of this office, and then I joined various departments to make it work better in my opinion. Did it work better? Probably better, 'cause I've been there for 12 years. And are those changes that are being proposed... I listen to different voices in discussions on this subject and I know that there are a lot, a lot of anxiety and a lot of questions about whether these areas are best divided and whether, let's say, the subsidiaries of these departments... Well, such dismemberment that two are responsible for one thing is always difficult. Who's gonna answer if it doesn't work? Because if it works, we'll find those responsible, and if it doesn't work, it won't be the one who should be responsible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about the president of this new sports office. You mentioned it. I understand that there is an amendment in the committee's report that was proposed by the Legislative Office, but concerning the subject of a mirror obligation of this future, or of a very high public official. Isn't there...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u250	There isn't. [[Isn't there an amendment?]] There's an amendment, i.e. The Legal Office offered to... I'd have to check it out, but... this amendment is. The Legal Office proposed to include the main geologist of the country There was no record of that. It argued that such an obligation exists in the case of other such positions. And we voted on this amendment. But about sports... I can't do that at 100% right now. Tell me. Maybe one of the committee members will give me a hint... I guess it wasn't there.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u251	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Senator, and I'm opening... No, I'm sorry, not yet. The bill was filed by the government. Minister Michał Dworczyk was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There are more government representatives, I see, but, I understand, Minister... Please, the Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, Minister Rafał Siemianowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me, in the replacement of Minister Dworczyk, to address a few points. As you have pointed out, this law is multifaceted, interdisciplinary, but I will try to address the key issues raised by the rapporteur, as you have noted. As regards the issue of Undersecretaries of State, I would like to explain in a few sentences the reason for these changes. Their genesis is primarily linked to the desire to diversify the current, slightly different status of vice-ministers. At the moment, we have the Secretarys of State and Undersecretaries of State who de facto differ in the fact that the Secretarys of State may be parliamentarians and that the Undersecretaries of State may not be. There is also a small difference in their salary. It's functional, however... [[I'm sorry, Minister, but I'd like you not to make a mistake. The exact opposite is true: Members and senators can only be State Secretarys and cannot be Undersecretaries of State.]] Yeah, yeah. That's what I had to say. [[You're the one who slipped. Please.]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, yes, of course. Undersecretaries... Yes, the Secretarys of State are higher up in the hierarchy. Members and senators can be... [[...the Secretary of State.]] ...secretaries of state, yes, I'm sorry, and they can't be undersecretaries of state. But functionally, in such a management dimension, this difference is small. The government proposes to include Undersecretaries of State in the Civil Service Corps with all the consequences, including the fact that Undersecretaries of State in this new formula will not be able to be members of political parties, will not be able to be councillors, they will not be members of trade unions. They will, of course, have to comply with the requirements set out in the Civil Service Act. It also involves another model, another path, another role that these Undersecretaries of State will play in the management sense. The idea is that they should focus more on management, management, official, administrative tasks, and the secretaries of the state. More on political and parliamentary tasks, if that is the case in a nutshell. As regards the remuneration of the Undersecretary of State, it will be specified in the implementing acts which at the moment govern the remuneration of the members of the Civil Service Corps. Following the adoption of the Act and its entry into force, those implementing acts which the Government will prepare will, as a rule, be composed of Undersecretaries of State as senior positions in the civil service. With regard to the issue of the Law on employees of public authorities, I would like to clarify that the provisions introduced by the law we are debating do not provide for exemptions. The government has decided to create a special path for people with special competence whose career model does not fit into the model offered by the civilian service, the corps of the civilian service. This is also the answer to some changes in the labour market and some greater flexibility for those workers who want to get involved with the government for a while. I would also like to point out that people are already employed in government offices under this law. That's what they're called. non-multiplier workers. Finally, it must also be remembered that this law regulates the functioning of even officials working in the Sejm Office, the Senate Office or the President's Office, so these are also proven solutions to some extent. As regards the various issues relating to the Legislative Board, I would like to stress that the fundamental change in this respect provided for in the Act concerns the service of the Legislative Board, which will now be served by the RCL. As regards the issue of remuneration raised here by the members of the Legislative Board, this remuneration will remain at the same level, but at the moment this matter will be regulated at the statutory level, as it has so far been regulated by an act of internal law, i.e. by the head of KPRM. The Legislative Board will be supported by RCL and hence changes are foreseen here. With regard to the case of departments, of course, the specific issues concerning the reasons for these changes and their consequences are described in the explanatory memorandum of the Act, but they have as much substantive justification as possible. I will refer to here as an example the issue of the new section of forestry and hunting, which will ultimately be assigned to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. This is because these issues are functionally linked. It is enough to mention, for example, the assessment of hunting damage, which farmers are of course keenly interested in. It's also worth it. mention that the definition of an agricultural holding provided for in the Civil Code states that agricultural land and forestry land are considered to be an agricultural holding. So these are the reasons behind these changes. The issue of the Foreign Service Act was also raised. These changes, in turn, are intended to allow employment in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in management positions of people with special qualifications who have not yet completed their career in the model of training at the Academy of Diplomat and Consulary, but are for example. experts from think tanks with the right experience in think tanks or with the right scientific achievements. It is about the ability to exploit their potential in foreign service. Maybe from the main threads, Mr. Marshal, at this stage, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u253	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I'm picking up... I ask Senator Secretary to meet... Let me ask you a question first, Minister. As long as I have heard your statement correctly, you have been gracious to say that people are already being admitted to work under this law. I think it's a slip of the tongue. Well, since we're working on this bill, how could someone be admitted to work now?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u254	Mr. Marshal, let me explain. On the basis of this law, i.e. Act on employees of state offices... [[I see.]] ...which is from 1982, although of course it has been updated many times. At the moment, such staff in the official nomenclature have been referred to as a non-multiplier, and indeed they have also been employed in the government administration for years. In addition, this law is of course the basis for the employment of employees of the Sejm and Senate Chancellery, the President of Poland Chancellery, the Office of the National Radio and Television Council and many other offices which are outside the government administration. That's what I'm talking about. When I said the bill, I meant the bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u255	Okay. Thank you very much, Minister. Your next question is Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u256	Minister, I'd like to ask you three questions. You said this law allows foreign service to employ people with special qualifications. Is the determinant of these specific qualifications, e.g. I will repeat that we are talking about foreign service workers from the obligation to speak foreign languages at the level provided for in the regulations in force so far? With regard to the Legislative Board, you said there was no increase in wages. Is it true that in art. 14 added the right to reward the members of the Council and the guests invited to its work for their participation in the meetings and for their opinions? Another question. Could you tell me how many government attorneys are there today? I therefore understand the representatives appointed both by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the government as representatives of the entire government. How many jobs are there? How many were there in 2015, at the beginning of the rule of the United Right, and how many are there now? How many plenipotentiaries are there? And one last question. I ask this in the context of this justification that you want to make the structure of the government clearer. How many ministers are there? How many of these positions are planted and how many are uninsured?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u257	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Well, maybe I'll say this. As regards the remuneration of the members of the Legislative Board Maybe I'll start with question number 2 and they're already identified. These salaries are already available to the members of the Legislative Board, only that is specified in the internal act, in the order of the Prime Minister's head of law. The internal act doesn't have to be published, so it can't be so easily accessible, but it's a solution that's been in existence for years. This law, in essence, with regard to the level of remuneration of the members of the Legislative Board, does not change anything, it merely introduces these provisions to the statutory level. As far as the number of representatives is concerned, I know that at the Prime Minister's office we have repeatedly responded to parliamentary or senatorial speeches in this area. These statistics, of course, are no secret, but I don't know them exactly right now. Well, I'm not hiding that the situation in this area is dynamic, and here, of course... [[Minister, I want to tell you that you can commit... this is a formula that has been used many times. We all understand that you don't have to have every given now. You can commit to answering the senator in writing.]] That's what I'm gonna do, Mr. Marshal. [[The Senate accepts this kind of response.]] The current information by government representatives and representatives of the President of the Council of Ministers will be forwarded to the senator. If the marshal agrees... Because, as I said at the beginning, this law covers very diverse matter. That's why there are representatives of other resorts here, people of the rank of vice ministers. Could Minister Jabłoński answer the question about the foreign service?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u259	You're welcome. Of course, if the senator, who asked, will agree. [[Of course I do.]] It's all clear. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I'll answer the senator's question. Here we come from the assumption that it is necessary to adapt this regulation which applies to those holding directors and deputy directors of departments in the Ministry I stress: at the headquarters of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to the requirements that apply in other ministries. We assume that coordination in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs headquarters is a slightly different task than typical diplomatic tasks, e.g. in foreign institutions. Hence the departure from the requirements for those who perform such tasks. When it comes to foreign languages, of course this is it. here so formulated, although these people will still have to comply with the requirements set out in the Civil Service Act. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to one thing: we are trying to open up the state administration to outsiders, we are trying to open these staff to people who are great professionals, who work in the private sector, who work in the local government sector, who are willing to make even less pay to perform responsible functions in the state administration, to direct work or to participate in the management of very important organisational cells of the Ministry. That is why we are trying to make it as easy as possible to hire such professionals. As Minister Siemianowski mentioned during his speech, there are people who have started their career in other sectors, who are excellent professionals in international relations, who know languages, but because they never needed to get certificates, sometimes they simply didn't need them for anything, in any case we can consider that these languages know enough to hire these people. The same is true in the absence of a diplomatic/consulary examination or a diplomatic/consulary application. There are functionaries, working in think tanks, working in various kinds of NGOs, also in the private sector, who have excellent experience, and today, despite these skills, we cannot include them in the group of people who serve the state. This change aims to eliminate these barriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u261	Thank you very much, Minister. [[I'd like to ask.]] [[I volunteered...]] And there are other senators, and now Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u262	When I asked about the Legislative Council, I spoke in a special way about the new provision on the remuneration for invited persons and I did not get an answer in this regard. By the way, when I can, I'm always trying to be helpful and I've already checked. Well, on 9 March 2016 there were 13 government representatives, today there are 52 of them, of which 46 are in office. There is a more difficult issue with ministers' representatives, because there is no list to be used, so I will ask for a written reply, and I will ask for this information from the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u263	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. [[I volunteered a long time ago, and you left me out. You told me I'd be the first.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] I'm sorry, I'm not the one keeping a list of speakers, I'm the senator who's writing this down. I just... Here you go, then, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. If I didn't notice you, I'm so sorry. Senator Jackowski, who often asks questions, also gives the impression that he cannot be denied. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. It's okay, I can claim mine.]] And you're very right. And I'm most sorry, Senator, because I failed the senator really badly. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u264	Thank you. In fact, I wanted to ask the Minister to draw up an organizational chart for all these ministries and cells, including a functional scheme. The bill is huge and not everyone can get a good sense of it, so it would be very useful, also for the future, when anything will change in the law on cannons. So if the Minister would be so kind as to promise that someone is able to prepare it, I would like to get something like this in writing. [[Thank you very much, Senator...]] That's one thing. And the other one's like this. I just want to ask briefly if there were any changes, or if there was also talk of this strategic council. I'm talking about the Strategic Analysis Center. Have there been any changes here? 'Cause I'm not... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u265	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u266	Thank you very much. As for the first question, of course. I can commit myself to giving you the information the senator's asking for, but... If I understand correctly, Senator. All these documents, i.e. documents identifying the organisational structure of all offices are available on the pages of the Public Information Bulletin. There are organizational regulations, there are statutes of ministries. But of course, if there's a request, there's no problem, we'll just... [[That's not the point. It is a simplification, so that we have a scheme: the Prime Minister, this, and who is subject to whom and what he is doing. It's an organizational and functional scheme.]] I understand, okay. We will try to respond to these needs. [[I'd really appreciate it.]] In the second question, if I understand it correctly, it's the Government Analysis Center. Indeed, the Act provides for amendments to the Act on the Council of Ministers, where the Government Centre for Analysis will be established. This is an entity that plays a key coordinating role in the strategic and legislative field in terms of government action. And here are the appropriate rules. This Government Centre for Analysis will operate on the basis of the currently functioning Centre for Strategic Analysis, which operates in KPRM.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Will this law, when it comes into force, cause such a situation that there will be redundancies of the current staff of central offices? I'm thinking here, for example. issues related to communication, education and those related to these issues, as well as issues related to physical and sports culture and work and social affairs. Will there be reductions in employees? According to the law, this could happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u269	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u270	As far as communication and education are concerned, I do not think this law is touching these issues. There is the issue of the transition of the National Centre for Research and Development and the Łukasiewicz Network to the minister responsible for economic affairs, but here the reductions are not foreseen. The National Sport Centre is to be established, and here the situation will be that workers who are currently employed in the Ministry of Sport in the field of tasks that move to the National Sport Centre will be offered new employment conditions. If you need more details, I'm sure the minister will be happy to answer. But from the automaton in the act no reduction solutions are provided.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u271	Thank you very much, Minister. You have an additional question, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u272	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The next question I have is that... I read in the press that Mr. President had a postulate for forestry and hunting. The Minister seems to have mentioned in his statement that this section will be in the Ministry of Agriculture. Is this case settled yet? Is this case closed, or is there still a discussion on this subject? I know there are very different opinions in this case. I'd like a comment on that. It is as if the Minister had already decided in his statement, which I understand has already been decided in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u273	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u274	I only have one sentence, and if you'd agree, Minister Sulphura would have developed this issue. I appealed to what was in the bill's justification. But the bill itself, so to speak colloquially, does not separate the departments of administration. This occurs in the so-called. Regulations of competence. So it's not formally decided in the bill. What I referred to in the field of forestry and hunting is included in the explanatory memorandum. But maybe the minister or the minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u275	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I would like to make it clear that, under the new law on departments, which is being discussed today, we are not deciding whether the hunting and forestry department will be subject to the Minister of Agriculture or the Minister of Climate and Environment. At the moment, we are investigating whether the forest and hunting departments will be separated from the environmental department. And this issue is only to be resolved in a regulation of competence, which will settle this issue when the project that is being discussed today will go through the whole legislative path, including by the Senate, and will be signed by the President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u277	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u278	Mr. Marshal, in correction mode, if the Marshal will permit. I have the impression that the ministers misunderstood my question. I know perfectly well that from this law it does not appear that hunting is to be assigned to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. I was referring to the statements made by the Minister, Deputy Minister Dworczyk, who spoke about how I understood that hunting and agriculture were to be in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, and I asked whether this matter was being decided. I didn't ask if I was regulating this bill because I know it very well. And according to your answers, I don't even know what's in this bill, but I know perfectly well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u279	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u280	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, so as not to leave any doubt and to be precise about the stage we're at right now... As the Minister said, the law does not prejudge this, but there is indeed a mention in the explanatory memorandum that points to a certain direction. But technically, as we said here, it's not decided, it's competence. The Council of Ministers, as regards these regulations of competence. Well, technically, it's not settled, and that's all we can say at this stage.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u281	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll ask you a question. The bill doesn't dictate it, but it makes it possible. That's not a possibility so far. As long as forestry and hunting weren't isolated as a department, we didn't really put the environment into agriculture. I don't think anyone would suggest such submission. And now the bill makes it possible. So we're also talking about the possible effects of the bill. That's the first point. The second is more political in nature. We don't have enough conflict fields to start next? What do we need that for? I would like to know what are the arguments for the possible transfer of forestry and hunting to agriculture, i.e. the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, because that is precisely what needs to be said. [[You're welcome...]] And... wait a minute. [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator.]] This is one question, which is, as it were, a sequence of further questions that were asked. My second question concerns the new administration department, the administrative center of the government, as a department, not as an institution. And now I'm reading, what's the center like, what things. So, it covers: defining strategic directions for state development and assessing the functionality of its structures, which is what the Centre for Strategic Analysis does, but maybe I am wrong; coordinating the government administration's activities to the extent entrusted by the Council of Ministers or the President of the Council of Ministers, is probably the law of the President of the Council of Ministers; defences and security of the state In the field of tasks belonging to the department, this is probably covered by the MON; information policy of the Council of Ministers and the President of the Council of Ministers, this is what the Information Centre of the Government is dealing with. And there is a simple question after such a grueling analysis: for what purpose is the separate department of the administrative center of the government? Please note that these tasks which I have read, which I believe are carried out by other entities, or maybe I am wrong, are not much in common with the administration understood as management. In my opinion, the word "government" means something else. The name itself is misleading, the scope of the tasks is even more consistent with other individuals. So the question is, why is it separate? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u283	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u284	If I may, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I shall begin with question number two. Administrative centre of the Government And this is where the statutory ruling will be. This will always be the department assigned to the head of KPRM. The intention is to strengthen the coordination role of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers within the whole structure of the government, and so you have to read these tasks. They are currently partly implemented by the Centre for Strategic Analysis or the Information Centre of the Government, but both the Centre for Strategic Analysis and the Information Centre of the Government are components of the KPRM, the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Thus, the aim was to strengthen the coordination role of the NPRM by assigning the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers to the government administration department. So far, the head of the NAP, even as a member of the Council of Ministers, hasn't usually... I don't recall this situation, I don't think he's ever had any government department assigned to him. As far as the first question is concerned, I can basically repeat it. what has been said so far. Creating this new department just gives you more flexibility. And this is also the whole idea of the law on departments, which was created several or even more years ago: to be like some people say, blocks or puzzles, which depending on the priorities of the government, can be arranged differently from a certain concept of the structure of the Council of Ministers, assigning them to individual members of the Council of Ministers. Thus, at this stage at which we are present, we separate this section, and as if before us is a formal decision on the assignment of this department of government to a specific member of the Council of Ministers. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u285	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u286	The question you asked about the first question, the second question you answered. Well, we've seen a lot of social resistance, so to speak, that's the gentlest term, in the trials... well, I'll say it all the time, I'm sorry, because in the Senate you shouldn't use that word for gmerania or maneuvering in the State Forests. Starting with privatisation issues and other threats... I am not saying that this bill leads to this, on the contrary. But the public is allergic to any changes in the State Forests. For a lot of reasons, I can understand that. Well, now that we're doing this flexibility thing, as you call it, some people start burning a light at the back of their head that something's on, well, something's starting to happen in the woods. They don't work well? After all, they are indicated as one of the best forest economies in Europe. Then why change it? Well, for me, it's so incomprehensible that we really have other, much more serious issues in Poland now, I'm not talking about political conflicts anymore, but real issues to deal with. Well, why do we have these morons here? That's why. Well, why, at this point in history, in fact, I don't know what to call it "open," I say it again, the next field of conflict? And that's going to be a conflict.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u287	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u288	In reply, Mr. Marshal, to the senator's question, I would like to make it very clear and point out that in the situation of the Forests at the moment when we issue the forestry and hunting departments, nothing changes with regard to the policy related to the priorities of the state, but on the contrary. On the contrary. Everything about this good we call state forests is under special protection. And that sensitivity you're talking about... This is, I think, clear to all of us. Today we can say this: the creation of these new departments is always linked to some new needs. And that's how the government approaches it today. And in no way does this lead to us losing all the achievements of many generations of foresters, their work and merits for the protection of Polish nature. We're particularly protective here. And I agree with the senator's statement in this regard. This is also the concern of the government, which even if it is making changes in this respect, then... Nothing changes in the state forest policy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u289	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u290	I have another question in the context of the Legislative Council. Whether the State unintentionally, however, has deliberately changed the provision on the Council: "In the Legislative Council, you propose such a wording of the provision of the Article. 14? can be appointed persons who are distinguished by legal knowledge and by the acquis of legal practice? I would like to remind you that the Legislative Council is an exceptional body, which, as you can always read, as an advisory and advisory body of the Council of Ministers and the President of the Council of Ministers, consisting of an outstanding team of theorists and practitioners of law, has a bit of a critical position to assess draft government legislation. Because by typing, you de facto introduce the principle that there may also be other persons who do not comply with the requirement of legal knowledge and the acquis of legal practice. If you would like to maintain the current principle, you would use the wording: "The Legal Council refers to those who are distinguished by legal knowledge and by the acquis in this respect. My question is: do you, knowingly or unintentionally, propose to change the record in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u291	Thank you, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have now reached out to the summary of the work at the committee meeting, which Mr Senator is also a member of. I've got it written down here... Of course, I have to rely on the material I have, because I can't get over it, even though I represented the government at this meeting on every issue. To this comment made at the committee's meeting here in the Senate, the government agreed that the words'may be replaced by 'calls'. And I have here noted yes, i.e. The government is in favour of this change. This would be the case: "The Legislative Council is composed of people who are distinguished by legal knowledge and by the acquis of legal practice. So all I can stress here is that as a government, we are in favour of this formulation. [[Thank you so much for this position.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u293	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. I would like to inform you that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Jerzy Wcisla, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my opinion, this law is suitable for rejection, and not because it is all wrong and unnecessary, just because it contains elements that disqualify it. Most of these cases have already been mentioned here. I will briefly mention them and briefly justify this conclusion. I am saying that the elements of this law are very much spoiling, mostly in the field of administration, namely, spoiling the corps of civil servants. Undersecretaries of state will become members of the civilian service corps. Civil service is the backbone of the state administration, and this was its assumption. It is intended to bring together impartial, apolitical experts in its ranks. Undersecretaries of state often performed here in front of the High House. Many good things can be said about them, but it is difficult to agree that they meet all these conditions together. If these people are included in the civil service, they will politically destroy something that has been built for 30 years and is very important to the state. This law states that the President of the Council of Ministers will indicate organisational cells whose employees will not have the status of members of the civil service, will be sent free of charge on leave, and to these units it will be possible without competitions, unfortunately also in a political way, to appoint new employees. I think this is really, after the recent destruction of this civil service, putting an end to this service. The Legislative Council was mentioned. And there's such a vague relationship here, too. The Head of the RCL shall take part in the work As suggested by this remuneration, as will be mentioned and does not participate with the right to vote. It's kind of like he's a judge on his own case. These are, I'd say, solutions that can be pulled under that term, they're harmful. The pay of the Vice-Ministers should be higher, not only because it is justified by work, responsibilities, responsibility, but mainly because it triggers a mechanism that is again very harmful to the State and does not, of course, concern only these positions. This problem needs to be dealt with in front of each other. And I actually said at the joint meeting of the 3 committees that I would be happy to personally support such a project and could even argue in the media on this matter. However, the risks arising from this law are further along the lines. Namely, the wages of parliamentarians, senators and MEPs are linked to the salary of the Undersecretary of State and account for 80% That paycheck. After this change, the wages of this group, i.e. MEPs, MEPs, senators, will be based on the wages of the Undersecretary or Undersecretaries of State at the President's Chancellery. If the President, who decides on the level of this salary in the regulation, applies the constitutional principle of equality, then after an increase that can easily be calculated by about 70% The salary of the current Undersecretaries of State should be equal to that of the President. And that will mean increases for parliamentarians in the same proportion. It's possible. Maybe that's the way it's planned, I don't know. And it will be possible at any time, and it would lead to another attempt or actually a back door increase like this, while there are arguments to talk about it directly, because it is indeed a state ruin. I'm not gonna talk about negative selection mechanisms anymore, etc. And these are really serious threats. I therefore believe that this law must be rejected in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u295	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Well, of course, this bill creates some emotions. It is a law that in a very foresighted or far-reaching way changes the way civil servants function, as well as a certain hierarchy of official positions, introduces new departments, and thus, in one word, as usually in such situations, undoubtedly creates discussions and extreme opinions. I would say this: what concerns me most in this bill is the question we asked government representatives during the last series of questions with Senator Czerwinski. Well, maybe I'll see what concerns are about the environment of the forest people, the foresters, those who love nature, and those who are proud of the great achievements of the State Forests, because this institution was created before the war and already had a certain accomplishment before the war... On Wawelska Street in Warsaw there is a building, which was built from contributions of employees of State Forests in 1938, built just for State Forests. And I remember stories like my late father, Dr. Eng. Jerzy Jackowski, pre-war graduate of the Lviv University of Technology, forestry, his newly married wife in 1938 on a trip to Warsaw, led him to this building, showing with pride: this is the building that occupies the State Forests. I think that the institution of State Forests by millions of Poles is well received. And as was mentioned, it is a state-owned company, which is praised for its exemplary forest management and at the same time also performs economic functions, because, as we know, we obtain various goods from forests, including wood. High Senate, that may not have happened in this debate, and it is worth paying attention to. In the European Union, we are faced with such a trend that, under the right slogan of environmental protection, some areas, some areas under, I would say, economic activity. And what could be a threat, because the European Union usually qualifies forestry, including agriculture... And it's not that agriculture and forestry have nothing in common. There has been a Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in the past, so this is not a solution that is not known at all. However, there is a serious concern that if there are arbitrary decisions, e.g. Excluding a significant area... the Minister will make me better, but the state forests are about 8 and 9 million ha... [[Voice from the room: 9 million.]] Nine million, right? I remember that well. Fortunately, we are a country in which the degree of forestation is increasing, for various reasons, and so we are pioneering in this respect, one can say, in Europe. But if arbitrary decisions are made to make areas of these 9 million ha, e.g. under the motto of nature protection, exclude from the ability to conduct, I stress, rational, sustainable forest management It is then that the economic opportunities of the Polish state and the situation of the State Forests will change completely. And I believe that President Andrzej Duda has expressed some doubts about this concept for a reason. I'll remind you where it came from. At the beginning of the formulation of Matthew Morawiecki's second office in all these media messages concerning the designation of the new Minister of Agriculture was given: the Minister of Agriculture and Forestry. I am saying that this was the case in the press, because, of course, formally this title is different, because Minister Puda is the minister of agriculture and rural development, but the fact that, so to speak, has spread in public awareness. And that's why maybe those fears This is no longer about organizational issues, about how this work is assigned For these reasons, which I have mentioned, they have a valid justification. And it would be good here to dispel those doubts. Because you're right, Senator Czerwinski, that this could generate extra unnecessary tensions. We still have a lot of them, so why create another front of these tensions here? And now the issue of the law itself. I regret that the government of the Republic of Poland does not fight with certain anomalies, which are in terms of remuneration of persons exercising managerial functions in the country. Two more terms ago, I made a series of 34 statements to the heads of major government institutions and government agencies on the average remuneration of executives in these institutions and the average level of remuneration. And we live in a country like this. This is the remnant of different changes over the last 30 years, in which there is absurdity. I ignore that the person who is an assistant to the President of the State Treasury company earns many more or several times more than the President of the Republic of Poland. Well, it's a partnership, I'm not in. In turn the presidents of various agencies, i.e. de facto government institutions, have salaries At least this is due to the information I had at the time, e.g. twice the powers of the President of the Council of Ministers. I have the impression that everyone, and the rulers, and the opposition, are afraid to have a serious discussion with citizens about how much the Minister should earn in Poland, how much the Member should earn, how much the Undersecretary of State should earn, how much other executives should earn in the country. We are dealing with an escape from a serious discussion on this subject. And these anomalies are increasing. The Minister said that there is not yet a regulation on the Undersecretaries of State. But, Minister, there will be a strange situation in which the Undersecretary of State will make more money than the Constitutional Minister in a given department. Well, here's the situation. On the other hand, members of various bodies who are employed by Undersecretaries of State, even if these bodies gather once a month, will also receive a salary which is much higher than the salary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Well, it's going to raise obvious questions about whether it's rational to find out that way. And that's why I think here, in this area... I know that pandemic time is a time when it is difficult to discuss this issue, but I think this discussion is inevitable because it will all lead to further anomalies. And now, as it seems... I address Senator Frankiewicz here. [[Ten minutes.]] I'm almost done. It is a pity that an application for rejection of this law was made instead of an application which would, however, attempt to introduce some amendments and corrections under this law, because perhaps then it would be possible to obtain a positive effect. But since there's already been a motion for rejection, it's likely 'Cause we know the arithmetic and the system of forces in the Senate. It will obtain most of it. Tomorrow, the Sejm will vote against this proposal, followed by this law with all the errors mentioned in the opinion. It will hit the president's desk, and it will probably be signed. And in about two or three months, you're gonna have to rewrite something, you're gonna have to rewrite something. The rule is, whatever's going on, it's gonna change anyway.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u297	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! We have a law before us that, in the intention of the authors, which we can read in the explanatory memorandum, was intended to increase the efficiency of the functioning of the state administration. Minister Sularka was just talking about the fact that the creation of new departments is linked to new needs. Yes, but these needs are not entirely related to more efficient administration of the State. Perhaps, as a result of these changes, you would have made it more flexible, because this argument was here, but certainly less transparent decisions and certainly no clear responsibility for the consequences of decisions. And you would certainly lead to discouragement of those who, e.g. In 1996, when the Civil Service Act was adopted, they consciously linked their lives to work in public administration as a work for the State. Because the practice, the consequences of adopting this law on the functioning of public administration, will only be bad for officials. Notice where today is the problem with the actual efficiency of state administration. As a result of the October 2020 changes, you have actually reduced the number of constitutional ministers, you have reduced this number from 20 to 14 The new central offices, but at the same time you have an army of government representatives or prime minister representatives today. There was no government in which the prime minister's or government's representatives were four times more than the constitutional ministers. These are 14 and the formal positions of government representative or representative of the President of the Council of Ministers are 52. You don't even keep up with the cast of these posts, because some of these 52 posts aren't filled. For today's public question, how many are planted, you were unable to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem with this policy is that you are no longer confined to the appointment of government representatives. This joyful work in this area already crosses the boundaries of government representatives and enters into the space of the representatives of the various heads of departments. In the word "space," I do not use it by accident. When I look at the list of these attorneys, and it's here, for example. I understand that you have no intellectual restrictions on the appointment of further representatives. As I said, a large proportion of these proxy positions remain uninstalled. You can say that there are some advantages to this policy. You are the first government in the history of Poland, in which a special representative of Urzzyka Dolne was added. The appointment of a representative of the President of the Council of Ministers for the establishment of the Central Sports Centre in Urzrzych Dolny is certainly a formula of honoring such smallest communities, giving them a clear signal that the government is with them. There are also no time barriers for the creation of proxy holders. You're calling them in connection with future events, for example. Representative of the Government for the preparation of the World Urban Forum in Katowice in 2022 or representative for the celebration of the 30th anniversary Visegrad Group, but you also have representatives connected with events that have already passed, such as: A representative for the celebration of the Centennial of Independence Reclaim. Here the justification is that the century of regaining independence will be celebrated by 2021. Why am I showing you this? This has nothing to do with strengthening management efficiency. I am also saying this as a person who looked at the efficiency of the functioning of the public administration. You can't do that. You create illegible structures where there is no responsibility for decisions made, and hybrids that are supposed to solve the problems you cause. This is not a policy that serves good administration of the state. And those who, in the past, consciously decided to get involved with the civil service were just talking about it Because if in the proposed legislation you enter a change that affects the civil service on the basis that now the President of the Council of Ministers will be able to identify organisational cells in government offices whose employees will not be covered by the status of a member of the civil service, they will only be civil servants and will be delegated by the President of the Council of Ministers, what will the consequences be? Of course, you are depriving these civil servants of this special protection, which was about to stress their status and that they were associated with the state administration regardless of the changing governments. This underlines the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal. And this formula makes you move them to a group of employees not subject to the Civil Service Act. Since you are moving them to another cell at that time in the civil service are on unpaid leave, they do their work as state officials. They're not protected then, first of all. Secondly, what we also need to remember is that officials who are not in the civil service corps have quite different requirements, including extra-official activity, for example. with socio-political activities. These are not changes which meet the objectives set out in the explanatory memorandum of this law, i.e. improving the efficiency of public administration. All the more so, they do not fulfil the objective of consolidating the decision-making process. As I have stressed, the cancer that is currently going on in the Polish public administration is not too large a number of constitutional ministers, there is not one or another division of government administration. Today, this cancer, this bad tissue, is the formula of government attorneys. I'm already skipping financial matters. Each of these agents shall, in accordance with the regulations governing them, be entitled to administrative and office and clerk service. Of course, it can be said that most of them are secretaries or Undersecretaries of State, who receive remuneration for this. I am already overlooking the fact that this formula allows such a situation that in some resorts there are several secretaries of state. It's something that never happened before. The formula has always been legible: the Minister, his first deputy in the rank of Secretary of State and the Undersecretaries of State who are responsible for the various parts of the Ministry. You have completely disturbed this division of responsibility. Today, in the event of any inspection, it would not be known who was responsible for the wrong decision. There will be the most prosaic problems concerning the cross-cutting of the competences of ministers and representatives, there will be a full decision-making galimatias. I believe that this law unfortunately does not solve any problems, and it is also a bad signal for civil servants and foreign servants and a very serious example of the worsening of these irregularities. It does not solve any of the important problems facing the Polish public administration today. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u299	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a bad bill that sanctiones and even develops the pathological way of organizing the state applied by the PiS for 5 years. Nowhere can this be seen more clearly than in the proposed changes in foreign service, in diplomacy. This is the part of the state service where all shortcomings, pathology can be seen most strongly. Why? Because she cooperates with other organisations of other countries sometimes cooperates with them and sometimes competes with them And there all the shortcomings can be seen most strongly. PiS started by pushing out experienced professional diplomats and replacing them in ambassador positions with party nominates. At the moment, what until 2015 was a rule, i.e. the fact that professional diplomats are in public service is an exception, and the rule is That there are party nominators there. The most shocking example of this was the position of Polish Ambassador to the Italian Republic, Mr PiS, three years ago, for only a few weeks. As we know, it ended in a disaster after just a few weeks, he was dismissed after 3... he resigned after 3 weeks, which, as a lively relationship between the supposedly serious states, and we were until recently, is absolutely unimaginable. But it's also a matter of vice-ministers. This former Minister in the Government of PiS, Mr. Chaputowicz, said that at the moment there is no one professionally directing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because there is no one there who is a professional diplomat. And again, the most entertaining example is an example of a very mysterious character, a certain Deputy Minister Grey, a party nominate, cancelled after a few months on very serious charges. This law sanctiones the party practice of foreign policy. He's trying to translate them to the lower level, i.e. department heads and vice-directors of the departments. This isn't new either. I would remind you that, of the horror, the director of the Diplomat Academy is you who received the first diplomatic degree a few days before taking up this position. How is she supposed to supervise teaching, the process of teaching new Polish diplomats? That's the lady from the party, of course. Just a few days ago, the deputy chief of staff at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was the councilwoman of PiS from Warsaw, whose only contact with diplomacy was that she was an assistant, secretary of one of the high-ranking officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs associated with the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and hung a calendar on her wall with President Kaczyński. But what you are trying to do with the foreign service in this law, by completely disassembling it, is just one of the arguments, just one of the examples that makes me present a motion to reject this law in its entirety. Other is what Senator Kwiatkowski, Senator Frankiewicz, Senator Pęcherz pointed out, which is as usual the legislative rush, the bizarre way of giving giant increases to the vice ministers, is what is at the heart of this law, namely the demolition, the final dissection of civil service, which was the pride of the independent Republic for 25 years. About the smaller shortcomings of this law, about how strange it really is. She is, the Senators of the PiS also spoke. I will not mention the location of forestry in this law on cannons. This law causes you to reorganize or try to reorganize the state, like how you are inefficiently fighting a pandemic. Lots of chaos, little effects, all for your own, and almost nothing for your citizens. This is not a good law on the organization of the Polish state. This is the highest law to speed up the process of building the party state of the PiS. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u301	Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u302	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state is to serve its citizens. I will say this again: the state is to serve its citizens. I went to politics with such conviction a year ago, and for a year I've been convinced that I was naive, thinking that I was. It's different. During this whole year I find out that the country, the whole body of our country, serves the party, serves the party and its leaders. I see, for at least a year, how I am here, that our government, instead of dealing with real economic problems, the real problems of citizens, takes care of itself, maintains power. He takes care of himself through possible apanasia for his members, supervisory boards, positions. He's in charge of maintaining power, which is the organisation of presidential elections instead of pandemics. And then this whole government reconstruction show... and this reconstruction is going on right now. This bill we're talking about today, the law on guns, it's a blaze. so-called. reconstruction of the government. I have the impression that this is all done because someone in the United Right doesn't have the courage to say that we thank the gentleman, you, buddy, you failed, we just move them to some less significant positions, we create additional departments, we create some synecures. Everything is unclear and in no way serves the citizens. The citizens will only have to pay for all this because it will be more expensive. I understand the need to reward good officials and, as Senator Frankiewicz said here, we should face this problem and discuss it, but with an open head, not a diagonal increase. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like our country to serve its citizens. In my opinion, there is nothing in this bill that really serves the citizens but chaos and confusion. I believe that it is important to say decisively, and in a political way. I am glad that even some colleagues in Law and Justice also see that this is creating greater chaos and confusion, not building a well-functioning state apparatus. When I was young, in the Soviet Union and communism, communism was said to serve man. That man then, in my youth, was Leonid Brezhnev. I am finding out more and more now that I have been here in Parliament, for a year now, that the Polish state also serves a man, and this man is now called Jarosław Kaczyński, and they are also his colleagues. I would like our country to serve its citizens, not the party's chosen ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u303	Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u304	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Your Senate, this bill shouldn't be. It's a bill that destroys civil service. It's a raise bill. In a time of pandemic, of closing companies, of cutting costs by many good entrepreneurs who cannot count on government support, in a time of firing workers, of binding thousands of small entrepreneurs to the end, the PiS government is throwing a stool bill. About the stools and the money. Increases for Vice-ministers to PLN 21,000. I do not know whether, in a time of pandemic, an economic collapse is such an important issue. Increase in salaries for members of the Legislative Board. Abolishing the limit on the size of this council. So far, there have been 20 people. Now this advice will count how many? 50, 70, 100 experts. Well, and also the question is, to the end of the experts, since, as Senator Kwiatkowski pointed out, there are some modifications in terms of criteria. It's not about any state framework, it's about correcting something. It's all about overshadowing the state. Interestingly, the vice-ministers who are transferred to the civil service corps will not have to make a statement of property. It's a bonus, too, except for the raise. The civil service itself shall be governed by Article. 153 constitutions. It speaks very clearly of its professional, reliable, impartial and politically neutral character. How can a politically neutral man who was a party activist be very clear about his political views? And now he's gonna go to the civilian corps... That can't be done. Finally, the very mode of calling the Undersecretaries of State. The Prime Minister will continue to do so at the request of the Minister. As regards the appointment procedure, the Director-General of the Office or the Head of Civil Service should do so. That would be in line with the article. 153 constitutions. A summary will be the vote of the Association of Graduates of the National School of Public Administration: The absence of uniform official pragmatism can result in the degradation of civil service. As far as civilian service is concerned, it's going to be demotion. As far as elected politicians are concerned, there will be increases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u305	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u306	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Much has been said about this law, and I have not heard a single good word. In fact, it is difficult to speak well about a law which, instead of strengthening, build a corps of civil servants, instead of strengthening, ordering the state, is prepared only and exclusively, so that the next PiS-iewicz can feel better, have potentially responsibility for the functioning of any area of the state. Before the entry into force of the first law on departments, we actually had to deal with some formal, governmental mess in Poland. No one knew exactly which minister was responsible for what. On the one hand, the designers of this first project consciously wanted to build an efficient state administration, an administration serving the citizen, but on the other hand, to give information about how and for which the individual minister is responsible. The PiS government has been storming this legal order in Poland for several years. And this next bill is a powerful example of that. I want to concentrate only on this area, which concerns the wider environment, the environment. Originally, after the adoption of the First Law on Departments, the Minister of Environment was responsible for two huge areas. One was called the environment, the other was called the water economy. It was quite clear and transparent, where you can get information on air protection, waste management, nature conservation issues or natural resources, whether it's geology or one of the basic resources of water. It was all at the Ministry of Environment. What do you consistently propose from the point of view of the PIS further? Because in placing this area, you're pretty consistent. You want to create 2 new departments of geology and forestry and hunting. To be honest, you could go further, because you could create a section on national parks, you could divide the waste management department into a section on municipal waste management, household appliances, etc.. Well, this work is, of course, still possible in your case. I don't want to tell the government, but it only indicates that you still have many opportunities, also in filling in posts and creating new functions for the secretaries and undersecretaries of the state, because that's all that's going on in this case. And this, of course, also points to some deviation from the environmental principles. Water management was excluded from environmental activities some time ago. First, she was sent to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. The basic natural resource was treated by you as a place for inland waterway transport. You failed to build inland navigation, so now you're moving this department to the Ministry of Infrastructure instead of taking care of the water quality. Actually, I don't know why she's there now or what dimension she's in. But since places and jobs are still needed, you create forestry and hunting as a separate department and want to take it to the Ministry of Agriculture. How do the State Forests even today, even in your time, exchange their main functions on their site, what does it say? First It's natural. Since when will the Minister of Agriculture pursue natural goals? If the Minister of the Environment does not do so, what goals will he pursue? Today, on the occasion of another project, I had the opportunity to hear the Minister's conversation with the national hunter. It doesn't build a good picture, but I don't want to concentrate on it. What objectives will you pursue if, in the second case, forestry is social function? There's only more business functions. After all, knowingly transferring responsibility for the State Forests, for forestry, in fact, into an area called Agriculture, you want to define as the only primary and overarching priority of the economy over the environment, the primacy of the economy over social functions, the primacy of the economy over biodiversity. You can't agree to that. You can't. This is really against the interests of Poles, because forests are meant to serve everything and must serve primarily to care for the right environment. I'm skipping a story called hunting. It is of course an important area in the functioning of the state and I do not underestimate it, but in order to raise it to the rank of a separate department of the national economy it is... Let me politely say: really waste, i.e. end-of-life vehicles, also deserve a separate division of the national economy. Because this is the level of understanding of things. It is with great regret that I also note the creation of another section on geology. After all, it is also the care of natural resources. If you were to refer more frequently to the documents that are being produced at the level of the European Commission, if you were to reach even the conclusions that Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to, in the part concerning the new mission objective by 2030, 55%. It wouldn't have occurred to you to release this as a separate department. You would know that care should be taken to ensure that the environment, as well as geology and natural resources are subject to special protection. I really am. So that we don't prolong any more. All I want to do is sign up for Senator Bosacki's motion. This law is fully suited to the basket, it cannot be supported, it cannot be argued in any dimension for, because it is simply bad and harmful in many areas. I therefore join and apply to reject this law in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u307	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bladder, Bieda, Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Marcin Bosacki, with a group of senators, has submitted legislative proposals in writing... Let me put it this way, because there are a dozen senators signed. The discussion is closed. Does the representative of the government want to respond to the legislative proposal put forward? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, as a government side, we maintain our positions on all the issues raised, the positions presented at the previous stages of our work. I would just like to refer to two cases, as I understand it, also on our part, by concluding the senate stage of work on the bill. The first thing is information, so there's no doubt. Undersecretaries of state after the entry into force of the rules we are debating will be obliged to make declarations of property, which is the result of the Act on the limitation of economic activity by persons performing public functions. These regulations are not amended, and just as department directors now make such statements... the transition of the Undersecretaries of State to the Civilian Corps serves in this respect does not change anything. One more, if I can do this, reflection, maybe a more personal nature. Because I am the Undersecretary of State, or actually this thread of Undersecretaries of State has scrolled through practically every state address. I've been undersecretary of state recently since October. I started my office career for several months working in the Marshal's Office of the Opole Voivodeship; then Senator Jazłowiec was working there. Then I graduated from the National School of Public Administration, and I'm a member of this school's alumni association. After graduating from school, I have worked in KPRM since 2006, promoting practically, so to speak, for subsequent governments. In 2009, I became Deputy Director of the Prime Minister's Secretariat. In 2012, as a civil servant, I left for a diplomatic institution and returned in 2015. When I was proposed to be undersecretary of state in October, I decided to do so as a natural consequence of a certain way of working for the state. After gathering my experience at the next levels of my official career, I came to the conclusion that it was also worth using these experiences as Undersecretary of State, and I responded positively to Minister Dworczyk's proposal to assist him in this particular period in which we are in the fight against the pandemic. You can of course various different elements of this fight to judge, it is understandable, but it is difficult to disagree with the fact that the Prime Minister's firm or the head of the Prime Minister's firm must play a key role in this process. I apologize for this more personal figure, but I just wanted to encourage you to look at these solutions in such a way that it is not about always agreeing with everything in every detail, but about being able to see these solutions that are simply pro-state. And it seems to me that such a solution is precisely such a proposal, because there are many people who, I think, have a lot of official experience and would like to work for the country in such management and management positions, undersecretaries of state, and this proposal is coming out. It's right across the street. Of course, we can be critical about certain details, and we may differ, but I would just appreciate it if you would also take a look at these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u309	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting... [[Voice from the room: Today, today.]] Excuse me, she'll be held after recess today. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u310	High Senate, a joint meeting of the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of requests submitted at the 19th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other acts - print No 264 On 16 December, 10 minutes after the adjournment, in room 176. Another announcement. The meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sports Committee on the examination of the applications submitted to the Act amending the Act "Teacher's Charter and some other laws will take place 10 minutes after the announcement of the break in room 182. And the third message. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration on the examination of applications submitted at the 19th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on Government Administrations and some other acts - print No 269 On 16 December, 30 minutes after the adjournment, in room 176. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u311	Thank you very much. Dismissed until 9:00 p.m. After the vote. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 31 to 21 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u312	Ladies and gentlemen, we are still forced to extend the break by 15 minutes because there is a strange failure. Some senators can see us remotely, but they can't hear us. We're probably gonna have to reboot the system. We're calling Cisco to look after the Webex system. As soon as this malfunction is fixed, we'll resume the vote. We're adjourned to 21.20. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 03 to 21 minutes 21]] Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] With the use of IT, I will say that the system has risen, but I have a request: if any of the voters can't hear us remotely, please report it to the chat room. It seems like everyone should be hearing it by now, but if it isn't, I'm asking you to report it in the chat room. I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the test vote. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Any voice. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking one of the people who voted remotely to see if she sent her voice correctly. Because if we don't, we'll wait 20 seconds. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ninety-seven senators voted. [[Voting No 3]] I suppose so. That everyone can hear and vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the law on education law, the law on the care of children under the age of 3 and the law on primary health care and consider it as item twenty-six of the agenda. That's what we talked about this morning. We've been waiting for an S-signed print. This print came up. The Commission was in agreement. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. We are returning to the first item of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021. Let me remind you that today we are generally voting on those laws that were in quotes . Ordered by individual ministries as requiring rapid adoption for them to enter into force on 1 January 2021. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Senate Act No 263 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1 aims to maintain parliamentary control over the transfer by the Minister responsible for public finances and the Minister for National Defence of expenditure planned in part Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. A hundred senators voted... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...53 for, 47 against, no one stopped. [[Voting No 4]] [[Voice from the room: It hasn't been that way in a long time.]] Impressive. [[Voice from the room: Good thing it's not 105.]] Amendment 2 aims at subjecting parliamentary control by the Minister responsible for public finances at the request of the Minister responsible for social security to carry out transfers of budgetary expenditure which are subject to a blockade between parts of the state budget, departments, chapters and paragraphs of classification for the payment of the Solidarity Fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 3 provides, on the contrary, that, in 2021, the creation of a new special reserve for the implementation of tasks aimed at combating and eliminating the effects of natural disasters and epidemics requires the opinion of the Sejm Committee responsible for budget matters. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I'm asking one of the remote people to check to see if he's sending his votes quickly, because this voice is coming in this 20-second break-- it's slowing us down a little bit. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 4 removes the regulation enabling the Minister responsible for the budget to transfer in 2021 to the Fund for Reprivatisation of Treasury securities whose nominal value cannot exceed PLN 3 billion. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 5 amends the definition of revenue of a local government unit introduced for the purposes of the Act by applying a reference to the concept of income of local government units. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted 99 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2021. We return to the second agenda: the law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 264 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Błucher, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will present a report to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on the Environment. The Commissions at its meeting on 16 December 2020 considered the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and certain other laws and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate should adopt the proposals set out in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u314	Thank you very much, senator. Does Senator Zdzisław Pupa want to speak again? [[No.]] No. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 seeks to maintain the terminology coherence of recourse in the law to determine municipal waste. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 2 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 3 aims to extend the scope of the amendment act. 9th paragraph. 1 Cleanliness and order law in municipalities, providing for the possibility of suspending the payment of the fine imposed on the municipality which did not reach the required levels of preparation for the reuse and recycling of municipal waste in a given year. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 4 aims to modify the date of entry into force of the Act by specifying it as at 31 December 2020, in particular by setting new levels of preparation for the reuse and recycling of municipal waste for 2020 more favourable to municipalities. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Attention, we are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in full in favour of changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one stopped. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Cleanliness and Order in municipalities and some other laws. We would like to return to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Teacher's Charter and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 265 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u315	The Committee on Science, Education and Sport recommends adopting this law with 3 amendments, amendments 1, 2 and 4. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u316	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that in the course of the discussion, the conclusions were presented by Pleno titulo senators Bogdan Zdrojewski, Halina Bieda, Ewa Matecka, Władysław Komarnicki and Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on a proposal to adopt a law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 15]] Since the proposal to adopt the law without amendments has been rejected, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 clarifies the expression used in the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 1 against, 46 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 2 aims to define the infringement of the right and dignity of the child. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 3 shortens the time limit for the investigation from 3 months to 1 month from the date of its initiation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 51 votes for, 48 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 4 makes it possible for the Minister responsible for Education and Education to commission tasks in the field of innovation or experimental activities in the education system by means of a competition. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 52 for, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] We therefore proceed to vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the Amendment of the Laws, the Teacher Charter and some other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Fund for Roads and some other laws. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Senate Act No 267 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 3, 4 and 5 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to ensure that the existing Self-Government Road Fund does not change its name to the Government Road Development Fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 2 reduces the reserve for funding bypass tasks from 5% to 1%. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, with one abstention. [[Voting No 22]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 99 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Self-Government Road Fund and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Senate Act No 282 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 2 repeals the additional conditions which must be met so that the public road manager who is not adapted to the traffic of vehicles with a permissible single axle pressure above 10 t or above 8 t may prohibit the movement of such vehicles. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 3 indicates that the Commissioner of the municipal or municipal guards is entitled to issue administrative decisions on the imposition of a fine on the basis of the authority of the governor, mayor or president of the city. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 4 clarifies that funds from fines for breaching the traffic ban on vehicles with a single driving axis greater than the permissible one shall be transferred to the budget of the local government unit, which is the manager of such a route. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 5 adapts the provision amending the Law on the Roads Fund to the amendments introduced by the Law of 19 November 2020 amending the Law on the Roads Fund and certain other laws. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 6 corrects a vague reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 281 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on specific rules for the preparation and implementation of investments in the field of public use airports. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of the bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate prints No 290 A and 290 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the expiry of bilateral investment treaties between the Member States of the European Union, drawn up in Brussels on 5 May 2020. We would like to return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act on the termination of the Commercial and Navigational Agreement between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofji on 29 April 1925. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Infrastructure have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amending Senate prints No 291 A and B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[To be honest, I just feel a little sorry for you.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] So nice, that's how it went... [[Voice from the room: Five more years...]] [[The voice from the hall: Stiletto...]] [[Voice from the room: 95 years...]] Please state the results of the vote. [[And a spelling error on the board...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, yeah. [[Voice from the room: The commission...]] No, but it's with a dot, and Bulgaria... [[And the vote may not be important.]] 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act on the termination of the provisional agreement in commercial and navigation matters between Poland and Bulgaria, signed in Sofja on 29 April 1925. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Specific Solutions supporting the implementation of operational programmes in connection with the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 293 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Specific Solutions in Support of the Implementation of Operational Programmes due to the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020 and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 284 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the excise duty law and certain other laws. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 287 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 36]] We've exhausted the voting program on the laws expected by the resorts and the Sejm. The rest of the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u317	The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the first reading of the draft resolution at the end of the Year of St John Paul II will be held immediately after the end of the sitting in Room 182. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-senat-19-1.u318	Thank you very much. I'm calling a recess until 10:00. We'll start with the commemorative resolution on December '70. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 05]]
