ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u1	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the European Union in conjunction with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at 3 p.m. 13.15, - Culture and Media - hour 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 18. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u2	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws (prints Nos 437 and 437-A). I ask Mrs Małgorzata Janowska to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u3	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the project applicants, it is my pleasure to present briefly to you the assumptions and purpose of the proposed bill amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, together with the self-correction submitted, Seym printing Nos 437 and 437-A. In 2018, as a result of the amendment of the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid Biofuels, a State Special Purpose Fund - the Low Emission Transport Fund was established. Excuse me, miss. Listen to me. We move when government ministers stand back and don't care about us. When you present, I ask Members of Parliament to listen. You're very welcome. I do it nicely, nicely. If we are required to be respected, we must respect others as well. Thank you. There you go. Thank you, too. Its manager was the Minister responsible for Energy and the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The Fund has been set up to finance tasks such as: the development of infrastructure for the use of alternative fuels. The creation of the fund was intended to respond to the lack of systematic support for market development and alternative fuel infrastructure in transport, while obliging Poland at the level of European Union directives to support the development of the market and infrastructure necessary for the use of alternative fuels. The adopted system for the disposal and management of the fund provides for operational cooperation between as many as three entities: the Minister of Climate, NFOŚiGW and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego as a bank manager of the fund. In addition, in accordance with the rules in force, detailed procedures for the selection of projects and support and other specific conditions shall be laid down by the Council of Ministers by means of a regulation. The proposed law aims to simplify, re-bureaucratise and accelerate public funding for the development of low-carbon transport. In place of the Fund, a new multiannual commitment of NFOŚiGW was created, as set out in Article. 401c. 9c Environmental Law Act. The transfer of funds from the Fund and the creation of a multiannual commitment will allow the transfer of funds between both commitments. This will ensure that project environmental objectives are financed as effectively as possible. The revenue of the multiannual commitment will in particular be the funds collected in the fund's account at the date of its liquidation, as well as income from the existing sources of the fund's income. Under the multi-annual commitment, NFOŚiGW will be required to allocate funds of not less than the amount of revenues of this multi-annual commitment after a reduction in the cost of operating these revenues. This construction will ensure better spending on low-carbon transport tasks. The inclusion of the objectives of the recast Fund for statutory purposes of NFOŚiGW will also ensure that public spending is more efficient and procedures are not formalised. In addition, the rules for setting the financial criteria for the selection of the project will be made more flexible. With regard to the specific provisions contained in the draft law, I will briefly discuss some of them. Amendments to Article 1 is intended to enable the State's Low-carbon Transport Fund to be converted into a multi-annual commitment under the NFOŚiGW by repealing the legislation on biocomponents and biofuels in the Act on the Fund. Amendments to Article The aim is to adapt the provisions of the PIT and CIT Act to the above changes in tax exemptions. Art. 4 defines the current revenue of the fund as revenue of the resulting multiannual commitment. Art. 5 contains amendments to the Environmental Law aimed at, inter alia, the abolition of the role of NFOŚiGW as manager of the converted fund or the creation of a new multiannual commitment with an indication of objectives similar to that of the Fund. Amendments to Article 6 aim to include in the Act amending the Law on Biocomponents and biofuels the liquid effects of transforming the Fund into a multi-annual commitment. Amendments to Article 7 are a consequence of the acquisition by NFOŚiGW of the task of a fund consisting of (the bell) the financing of a public service bus development fund. The amendment contained in Article. 8 concerns the repeal of Article. 20 of the Law of 19 July 2019 amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws which maintained in force an implementing act setting out the criteria and conditions for granting support from the Fund. The proposed law also introduces transitional provisions, which govern inter alia. the termination of contracts concluded between NFOŚiGW and BGK regarding the handling of the converted fund or the acquisition by NFOŚiGW of claims and liabilities of the converted fund. According to Art. 15 provisions on the expiry of the Fund should enter into force on 30 September 2019 and the other amendments should enter into force on 1 October 2020. The original wording of the project was also accompanied by an auto-amendment amending the scope of Article. 4 of the project, i.e. the Act of 10 April 1997 - Energy Law. The provisions added in the self-amendment confer on the owner of the transmission network and distribution network, storage facilities or liquefied natural gas or transmission network and electricity distribution network rights in the form of a right to choose whether he/she will carry out his/her task as a connection system operator. The aim of the auto-correction is to facilitate the operation of the gas transmission system operator in the area of low-carbon transport. In conclusion, the implementation of the procedures and principles applied by NFOŚiGW will enable faster and more efficient spending and linking them to business-friendly mechanisms. The proposed solutions will contribute to the implementation of programmes supporting the development of a modern innovative electromobility-based economy. Investments in this area will ensure a significant development of the industry and low-carbon transport services sector, also increasing demand for electric vehicles, which is currently limited by technical constraints such as low coverage, high price and insufficient charging infrastructure network. On behalf of the applicants, I ask your Members to support the proposal submitted. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u4	Thank you, Member. I added you 2.5 minutes because you had to present the project. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The first Member I ask is Mr Wiesław Krajewski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I have a good favor to ask you, sir. 2.5 minutes were added to the reporter. As if you've narrowed the speaking time a little bit, it's up to the hour. We'll make it ten. You know what it's all about - doing something good together.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the correction. Although I have the material prepared, I will try to present it in a brief version. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position on the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws contained in the Seym printing No 437, together with the self-correction, print No 437-A. The proposed amendments to the proposed bill are intended to transform the State special-purpose fund, the Low-carbon Transport Fund, into a multi-annual commitment of the Fund under the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management by repealing the provisions on this special-purpose fund. As a result of the conversion, the replacement fee will affect the bank account of the commitment of the Multi-annual Low-emission Fund for Transport of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The proposed changes concern inter alia. remove from the Act on Income Tax on Individuals the exemption from PIT tax support granted from the resources of the converted special-purpose fund. The amendments also concern the exemption from CIT tax for financing granted in a non-refundable form from the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management under a multiannual commitment. The amendment to the Environmental Law is another area of change proposed by the applicants. These amendments are intended to include the emission levy of the existing special-purpose fund as the income of the multiannual commitment, the creation of a new multiannual commitment with the same objectives as the previous special-purpose fund, the correction of the references as a consequence of the new multi-annual commitment created. The proposed amendments also concern the repeal of the Article. 20 of the Law of 19 July 2019 amending the Biocomponents and biofuels Act setting out the criteria and the conditions for granting support from the special-purpose fund. The draft law introduces transitional provisions aimed at giving legal form to the transformation of the special-purpose fund into a multi-annual commitment of the Fund and indicating the consequences of this transformation in respect of inventory, closure of accounts, accounts and reporting. The amendments in question are complemented by the self-correction of applicants, print No 437-A, amending the provisions of the Act of 10 April 1997 - Energy Law. The subject matter of the proposed law is not covered by European Union law. The regulated issues are national in nature and address organisational issues. The improvements made increase the availability of resources for entrepreneurs and will have a positive impact on the competitiveness of the economy and on the development of entrepreneurship. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends the submitted parliamentary bill amending the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws contained in Seym printing No 437, together with the self-correction, print No 437-A, and proposes its adoption. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u6	Thank you, sir. Thank you... Yes, sir. Members and Members of the PiS are working out every now and then. I invite Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The establishment of a low-carbon transport support programme has already been announced by the government in 2016 and today's discussion of the current project is a good time to summarize this programme. While the government announced this programme in 2016, the relevant law allowing the creation of the Low Carbon Transport Fund entered into force only in mid-2018, and the regulation entered into force only at the end of 2019, i.e. de facto this project and this fund only started at the end of last year. The Low Emission Transport Fund was to finance projects related to electromobility, subsidies for electric cars, the development of infrastructure for recharging and refueling alternative fuels. However, due to the lack of regulation, the work was delayed. In 2019 an amount of PLN 680 million was allocated to the fund and less than 1% of this amount was invested in 2019 , just 1,200 thousand. PLN, mainly for administrative costs. At the beginning of this year, we learned from the media that there were 360 million PLN in the fund's account, and then at the meeting of the Energy Commission in June we learned that the government was shutting down the fund, but for this it launched three new aid schemes for electric cars: Green Cars, So let me repeat: from the amount allocated, but not used, in 2019, the amount of PLN 680 million, at the beginning of 2020 the fund remained PLN 360 million, and since June we are talking about PLN 147 million for three electromobility programmes. At the same time, every time the project appears, these smaller programmes, for ever lower amounts, are announced as new successes, and it does not matter that nothing has been realized in the previous version and the budget has been cut or shifted. What happened to the money? That's what I'm gonna be asking the Minister because we don't know. What do we know? There's supposed to be 1 million electric cars. There's 6.5,000 of them. In this respect, we are in third place in Europe, but from the end. They're supposed to be charging stations. There's less than 1,200 of them. In this respect, we are fourth in Europe, also from the end. A clear point - I managed to find something positive about Polish electromobility - there are electric buses, but unfortunately they do not have much to do with the Low-carbon Transport Fund. Finally, there was going to be a reduction in transport emissions. Here I would like to remind you: the Polish climate objective for the 2013-2020 period is to keep transport emissions to a maximum of 14% higher than 2005. Meanwhile, transport emissions have increased by 80% during this period. These are the figures for 2018, the latest. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 only, i.e. for only 3 years, transport emissions increased by 36%. So who gained from the program? I guess no one, except maybe those who run the fund, but we don't really know that either. To sum up, I think it's safe to say that the program was a complete failure. And today, with this amendment, you're admitting it. But what worries even more is the way you're going to fix this program. The program didn't work. and needs a change, it is perfectly understandable, but this change should be preceded by a thorough analysis of what did not work in the previous programme, the settlement of expenditure, consultation with experts, the social side. Is it a responsible plan to propose such major changes to the programme, which has already been so spectacular, without analysis, without discussion, in express mode? Or is it an attempt to withdraw cancer from the program, take away its priority, cut funds, blur them between a number of NFOŚ programmes? I hope not, because I also care very much about reducing emissions, especially high emissions from transport. And time is running, Minister, emissions are rising, we're poisoning the children, the streets are stinking and humming. So in order to be able to support this project, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need to see a reliable analysis of the conclusions of the past and a new, convincing plan. I'm gonna ask that at the committee meeting. We will also apply to the analysis office to help you understand what did not work in this previous version of the program. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u8	Thank you, Member. I invite Mr Mark Dyduch, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels was first adopted by the High House on 25 August 2006. It was adopted because there was a European Union directive. And the government, then the PiS, asked what he was doing in low-carbon transport, said: we have a bill. Then came the government of Donald Tusk, the Donald Tusk, who later was the face of the European Union. And they asked Donald Tusk or a representative of his government: What are you doing about low-carbon transport? There's the bill. Then comes the government of PiS and in 2016. They ask there, in this European Union: What are you doing in the context of low-carbon transport? We have a bill and a program. This Decision shall enter They are asked again in the European Union. We have a bill, a program, and a fund. Well, there's progress. There's progress - 14 years. We've gone so fast that we've been telling this Union 14 years that we're making progress. And in 2020 we say: we have such progress that we are eliminating this fund, we are transferring funds elsewhere. But how would he function if the minister of the environment, the manager of the National Fund for Environmental Protection, was the minister of energy on the way, and the finance was held by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, who was happy because he had money in his account and could trade it? But what did people get out of it? What's in it for the institutions? What did they get out of it? This fund, this money and these laws, because it has to be said, were supposed to support initiatives of people, institutions and reduce pollution emissions when it comes to transport. They were supposed to be supportive. Well, how did they support it? We've been cheating on these people. We cheated institutions, we cheated ourselves, we cheated the European Union. That, unfortunately, is a fact. But now we're changing the bill, changing the fund manager. The bill is being drafted by Members. It's an interesting situation. We amend here five laws, including the Act on Individuals Tax, the Act on Corporate Tax, the Act on Environmental Law, the Act on Energy Law. Serious bills. Members know better than the government how to do it. Such capable Members. And I warn the members of the government: if they are better than you, they will replace you. They will go to the president and say, "Who are these ministers? We're better than them. After all, we're changing this bill, one or the other. 98% Members of the Sejm shall bring them in this term of office. To this extent, the government does not do it, it does not do it by the ministry that deals with it, and none of which can draw up laws. No, no. Not 98%. 99? No. That's the way it goes. We can bet on that. What is it that Members do, not... And that's because there's no public consultation. Because if they asked these institutions, the entities that wanted to use this program, this fund, they'd say it was some kind of farce. But why ask? As Members say, there is no public consultation. There is no public consultation on such an important matter. This is a government that doesn't want public consultation, is it smart? This is a smart-ass government. Because every smart man knows that when there's a big problem, you have to run an initiative, you have to run the mobility of these people and their minds. Let them figure out what to do with biocomponents or biofuels. Let them figure it out. Why should we buy technology? - because this is how we're gonna end up buying technology with that money instead of selling it? What, Poles are dumber than other nations? It could be used, and we're moving... First we change the bill, then we move the fund. And now - the last word: fund. This money goes to the national environmental fund. That's great, except the national environmental fund spends around 50% in other areas. measures. That's where the billions lie. What is the guarantee that these measures will not be there either? I don't see any guarantees here. That's what we're gonna ask. The left will support this project - but first we will tell the committee to do so - because we do not want to block this money. We hope the government will simply use them. That's what we hope for, because we're talking about institutions that need it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u10	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. But I did it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u11	Thank you, Marshal, for inviting me. There you go. I would also like to thank my fellow Members who, on the one hand, and your rapporteur for the project, as well as those who have spoken before me, because part of the argument has already been put forward, so to speak. In particular, Mr Dyduch, I think, has made a very good assessment of this, saying that this draft amendment of the law bears many features of the government project, only that it has been presented by your Members. That's how I feel it's a de facto government project. A special-purpose fund is being abolished, the Low-Emission Transport Fund. A multi-annual commitment of the Low Emission Transport Fund is established in the National Environmental Fund. It also changes the person who owns this account. There are many changes here, five laws are indicated. On the other hand, I would very much like to draw attention to the revenues of this new multi-annual commitment. These are the funds from the transmission system operator, the funds that will come from the wound-up account and the revenue from the substitute fee established by the Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Biofuels and Biocomponents Act. In fact, this is the main source of funding for this fund. What is the purpose of this novel? Some of the arguments are mentioned here, but in fact there is no justification for answering the question of what are the effects of the existing operation of the Low Carbon Transport Fund, which was adopted, I remember, after reaching consensus, it was considered that this should be done. There are no clear indications to improve this change in law the development of low-carbon transport. The statutory commitments set by the Supervisory Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management are amended. The question is whether the legislator wants to consciously give up on the fact that the group, which is the Supervisory Board, sets out those objectives which were to be one of the cornerstones of the development and modernisation of this transport sector. Nothing is said about the amount of resources collected and changes after the introduction of the multiannual commitment. There is no de facto impact assessment. The Low-carbon Transport Fund is being wound up before any transport activities are launched, and for this purpose it has been created. We should assess why this is happening, what are the resistance points here, which make it inefficient, I think, because I think that's why this change is happening. It was the reason for establishing a substitute levy, a national indicator target, i.e. the conversion of the reduction of biocomponents and biofuels on the market fixed for a given year for this levy, which is in fact 10 times lower than the cost of purchasing biocomponents, i.e. at the expense of the development of the biofuel sector, including farmers who produce the agricultural raw materials needed for this development. So what about these measures after the amendment of the law? How will they be distributed? The question of equal treatment of individual technologies for the development of low-carbon transport, whether the biofuels sector will maintain its place there, whether electromobility will be preferred, whether this sector will also be able to provide adequate support in the creation of a special-purpose fund. The question is, what about the E10 petrol launch plan? In most countries, at least half of the EU countries, such a product has already been implemented. The implementation of such a product requires education and promotion. The regulation implementing the Low Emission Transport Fund, issued by the Minister for Energy, provided for the promotion of ethin 10. Will this be recognised in the directions set by the Supervisory Board of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management? We don't have an answer for that. The amendment limits expenditure on the budget related to the development directions to be supported by the wound-up of the Low Emission Transport Fund to zero by 2027. Question: "Why?" The biofuel industry, the agricultural sector, protested very strongly in the recent amendment of the law, where a national target was introduced, where the national indicator target was reduced by a substitute fee, and at the moment it has such a dilemma. This was very difficult in the Renewable Energy Directive RED II. Protect the 7% share of biofuels from agricultural raw materials by 2030 and at the same time we have 14% by 2030 the share of RES in transport and this objective is out of reach if we do not use these (the bell) 7% the share of biofuels from agricultural raw materials, not to mention what this gives for the agricultural sector. That's feed, that's crop rotation, that's a lot of other targets. So that this change is not only the five laws set out in this Act, but also the consequences that may affect many different sectors, and that is what I wanted to draw attention to. We do not object to passing this on to the committee, but we believe that we should get an answer to these questions during the committee work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u12	Thank you for this wise, sensible, cool voice, Mr. President. It's been nice listening. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz is invited to the pulpit, the Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. Hello, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u13	Hello. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, I would like to disagree with the previous colleagues, Mr Mark Dyduch and Mr Andrzej Grzyb. It is not a pathology that Members bring laws, pathology is that the government has a legislative initiative. The executive authority should implement the laws, not write them, [[Applause]] So I think we've got a mess of order here. If the problem is that there is no public consultation, then let us enter a public consultation for parliamentary projects - and that is the solution, not that the government is writing laws. But back to the matter, socialism is a system that heroically solves the difficulties that it itself creates, and that is exactly what it is in this case. First we set up an additional Low Carbon Transport Fund, and after 2 years we realize that unnecessary, because the same, and even better, could be solved without this fund within already existing institutions. And so we go from success to success, quoting Mr Michalkiewicz. Each time we have reason to be happy, first we set up a fund with applause, then a round of applause for canceling it. Knowing life, it is not necessarily some wise reason to stand behind this conclusion that we do not need this fund. Perhaps it is as it is in the practice of the governments of our neosanity that the person for whom this fund was created to work has proved to be ungrateful, or for other reasons has become redundant, and now we are eliminating the fund. But I don't know, maybe there are other reasons. But the problem is that this conclusion that we do not need this fund is simply not far enough, because not only do we not need this fund, but we simply do not need the state to decide what technology is modern, innovative or forward-looking, and what it is not. [[Applause]] If technology is forward-looking, then the future This will show us - and we do not need officials to guess the future for it. In fact, we know many cases from history, as officials have tried to decree the future and involve taxpayers' money in various projects that are rather amusing today. At the end of the 19th century, governments called for tough heads to sit on how to solve the problem of horse feces in the cities due to the rapid development of urban transport. It was predicted that if it went on like this, horse poop would soon obscure the view from the second floor. In this regard, we organized such equivalents of our today's climate summits, during which the thick heads advised on it endlessly and, just as in our contemporary climate summits, they could not go beyond the extrapolation of what they already knew. The problem wouldn't have been solved if it wasn't for some private inventor to invent a car and all that dissipation to become unnecessary. At first, however, the countries were not enthusiastic about this project, about cars. In a faraway city, Warsaw is said to still be ruled by a man who tries to fight cars, and even tried to ban the entry into the city of cars, lobbying drivers who protested against this unfair competition. That's what happened. It is also worth remembering that some governments considered diesel to be the right technology not so long ago, used various financial incentives, development programs to encourage diesel, and then at some point decided that diesel was bad, and began to persecute it, to fight it, to ban entry into city centers, to expose those whom they had previously encouraged to do so, who had listened to these government incentives before. Now it turns out that restrictions on diesels were rather rash, unnecessary, and do not produce the expected results. It can also be recalled that the Roman Club announced the depletion of fossil fuels in the mid-1990s. This shows how poor officials and their projects are able to guess this future. These examples should teach us more humility in relation to civil servants' ideas for technological development. Governments have repeatedly loaded taxpayers' money into failed projects or fought against technologies that turned out to be really forward-looking. Officials, apart from the fact that they are simply wrong in human terms, seem, unfortunately, also susceptible to the so-called. non-essential means of persuasion, that is simply corruption by lobbyists promoting different technologies. So much better, I think, we will, if the officials stop simply interfering in the development of technology and leave it to the market. Besides, speaking of electric cars as innovation, as we read in the explanatory memorandum, and the synonym of modernity is a misunderstanding in 2020. This is a technology that has been developed in many places for a long time. Think about the chance that here our technological desert will produce some fruitful fruit in this area, in a market where we do not have any significant achievements so far. For that to make sense, there must be an industry here to catch up. For such an industry to arise, there must simply be liberal, sensible economic regulations and such conviction, confidence from investors that the state is stable, not for example. Spits out the Sejm at such a rate that Members do not keep up with reading. No one will want to invest in a country like this. If this happens that this technology will develop... Of course, provided she makes sense, and so far there are many indications that she isn't. If electric cars were good, people would buy them themselves, they wouldn't have to be encouraged to do so, and so far we're charging some taxpayers' money to buy others a new car, and it's often the money of those who can't afford a new car. So the more they're gonna drive old diesels, the more they're gonna have to pay for these new cars. Because time's up, I'll be on my way to the end. The Confederacy will abstain because we will not oppose the liquidation of this fund, but we also do not see the point in the whole fight led by the officials for our future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u14	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. I'm setting a time limit for one minute. I invite Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr. Mirosław Suchoń did not accept the invitation. Therefore, I invite Mr Paul Krutul from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u15	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The proposed project envisages the creation of a Transport Low Emission Fund, which aims to finance the development of infrastructure enabling the use of alternative fuels, including biocomponents. This is not a completely new solution, because a similar fund has been in existence for more than 2 years. This project implements a support programme for the purchase of electric vans. The call for proposals is run from 26 June to 31 July 2020 and the payment amounts to 30% of the eligible costs, but not more than 70,000. zł. The number of cars supported is 1 000. Pieces. According to the High Voltage portal, only nine companies have so far applied for the purchase of cars. My question is: When and does the Ministry plan to introduce a program that really encourages the purchase of electric vehicles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u16	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Rutka, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u17	Your Majesty! Minister! High Izbo! Currently in Poland there are slightly more than 8 thousand registered. electric cars, of which fully electric cars represent only 59%. The rest are plug-in cars. It is worth mentioning that according to the assumptions of the document Mon. The national framework for the development of alternative fuels infrastructure by the Ministry of Energy in 2017 was assumed to travel more than 44 thousand Polish roads in 2020. electric cars, and in 2025 there will be over 1 million cars. So at this rate we will wait 125 years for 1 million electric cars promised by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. My question is: Can the Ministry guarantee that the volume of 1 million electric cars will be reached a little faster than in 2145, i.e. By 2030? Because according to your president's latest guidelines, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Jarosław Kaczyński is to rule the United Right in Poland at least until this year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u18	Thank you very much for your words. I invite Mr Krzysztof Gadowski from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, known for enjoying the phone conversation loudly, so that we can all hear.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There was supposed to be a fund that was supposed to contribute to the development of electromobility, which was supposed to create infrastructure for it. My previous speakers were talking about a million, well, we were dreaming that maybe a few hundred thousand would show up, but it didn't work out. Therefore, Minister, I ask: What is the value of this fund today? Why didn't the fund start as soon as it was created in July 2018? When did the first money from this fund actually be spent on the tasks set out in the statutes of this fund? What were the costs, the Polish society, the administration, the functioning of this fund? Although they were given, they were specified in the Act in 2018. I said, what was the cost? How much money have you spent on this? And one last question. Will this new formula, which you are introducing, improve the operation of the Low Carbon Transport Fund, contribute [[♪ The bell ♪]] to spend more efficiently the financial resources earmarked for a specific purpose enshrined in the statutes and the mission of this fund? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have air one of the most polluted in Europe. Poznań County and Poznań are among the most smog-polluted cities in the world, in the top ten. The purpose of this fund set up 2 years ago was to reduce the emissions of petrol gas from diesel. Within two years of this fund being set up, nothing has been done. Self-governments within their resources do what they can. In Poznań, most buses are low-carbon buses. I wanted to ask a question in connection with the announcements in this amended act again, because it comes from 2006 and for 14 years there has been little done in this case. How many electric cars can Poznań and Poznań County count on the announcement that this case will be brought to a halt due to the announcement in this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u22	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Low Emission Transport Fund was to be the main source of financing for the development of electromobility in Poland. It was announced that almost PLN 7 billion would be distributed to various projects. I ask: Where are these electric cars promised by Prime Minister Morawiecki? However, only after 2 years there is a need to change the fund and transfer it to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. For self-governments, not so much is the way to raise funds at central level for financial support, but for efficient and transparent action. This is so important that you have placed a number of responsibilities on the local authorities, which they must manage, for example. ensuring the participation of at least 30% of electric vehicles in the fleet of vehicles in use. I therefore ask: Why this project has been notified as a project (the bell) of Members, without any cooperation with local authorities, e.g. as part of the work of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission? Once again, you're making regulations without asking anyone's opinion without consulting the public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u24	Thank you very much. And now the question I'm looking forward to with particular interest. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. We're gonna connect. Good morning, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u25	Hello, hello, very venerable Mr. Marshal. I just wanted to ask if the audience in this room realized that they were talking about something they didn't know at all. If, 125 years ago, the US Congress were to address the problem of motor development, address the problem of fuel supply for emerging cars and set up a special fund to help entrepreneurs, and a second fund to help fuel producers, if the US government had already consulted with the organization of American countries, and God forbid, we still had a public consultation, we would still have been riding to this day, because, as they rightly pointed out, we would have been riding. Henry Ford: If I asked people what they needed, they'd say they needed bigger, faster and cheaper horses. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether electric cars in Poland are going to be a million, 100 or 5 thousand, but if the Sejm did not interfere, the government would not interfere, it would be as much as necessary. And now it's not even what we want, it's what this monster is made of, what the laws are. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u26	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for your applause, sir. I invite Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u27	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The fund for low-carbon transport is the most mysterious act of the 14th session of the Sejm. For a reminder: the fund for these purposes has existed for several years, the money has not been spent, and now it is being transferred, only, attention, less money - almost half of the money that was, for other purposes related to ecology. And now you have to ask yourself: What is this really about? Are we dealing with an indignity of a government that is not capable of such important social goals, ecological spending this money, or is it about some, I don't know, I don't want to say, scamming? However, we are simply dealing with some very strange movements. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is therefore important to find out what the intention is to transfer these funds and reduce them, by the way, to another fund. And last remark, if the Marshal may allow which one, I hope, the Marshal... It's a short one. ...will also agree. We're both from Silesia. There, pollution issues, environmental issues are particularly important. And from this point of view, it is so important that this money is used as quickly as possible for low-carbon transport and that it does not die anywhere along the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u28	Thank you, madam. As a matter of fact, I am an envoy from the Dentistry, but in general about that direction. Mr Stefan Krajewski, I cordially invite you, parliamentary club PSL - Kukiz15, Coalition Poland of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u29	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We're already used to the rule of law and justice, the government of the United Right is juggling - it's juggling money, it's juggling tasks, it's connecting institutions, it's dividing. Today we see that a special-purpose fund will be liquidated so that money can be transferred to a large national environmental fund. You won't be able to see how much money you spent on, what your goals are, how much easier to move that money. There was a promise of a million electric cars. We have a million vehicles, probably more, but only scooters we have unfortunately, not cars. And a question. Wouldn't it be easier to transfer that money and that fund to Orlen? Orlen everything is better able to do, Lotus hot dogs will now sell with the Orlen logo and will already be a full success of this government. So he could use that, too, he could. When will the government (the bell) finally begin to carry out further indicators and tasks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u30	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Grzegorz Braun from the Confederation, a parliamentary club... a circle, a circle. But I wish you a club someday, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u31	It's the future. The club is the future, I hope, not far. Welcome - welcome to the Confederation. Ladies and gentlemen, if you're trying to sense the trends of the future here, it's us. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We're on our way. Honourable Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question: What do you think of all this, the Prime Minister, who personally involved his individual authority, as well as the majesty of the Republic of Poland, in this project? It's a project, as it turns out, completely miscarried, since you've been erasing the institution, the fund you've set up. You're transferring money from empty to vain to another money grinder that's been taken away from taxpayers before. What do you think, Prime Minister? Because if he's been so involved before, and now you're making a decision to cancel, to scrap that Low-Emission Transport Fund of yours, then maybe the Prime Minister knows something important that justifies it. And specifically, if you can continue with the enlightening thought of my excellent colleagues: Sosnierz and Korwin, you may need to look for some mount, because if this is a regressional trend and if there is nothing from electric cars, then maybe non-electric will need to scrape and maybe then... Because scooters are, aren't they? All right, let's go slow, sir. You didn't need any funds for that, it went well. What does the Prime Minister think? That's a specific question. If the Prime Minister... Mr President, we are finishing slowly. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u32	Thank you very much for this brilliant question. You forgot about your traditional: God's blessings, which you broke my heart with. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. Take your time. We won't run away from you. There it is. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u33	Time's ticking. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions about this bill. The first question concerns the optimization of transport. It seems to me that this bill will make better use of money thanks to its greater impact on the optimization of transport. We drive a lot when it comes to, for example. It's about food. In Europe, food that hits our table must be transported on average 171 km, only cars above 3.5 t and only those registered in the European Union without any other means of transport. And the second thing, the issue of crops and just the impact of post-extract buckshots (the bell) that will arise on agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u34	Thank you very much, thank you very much. I invite Mr Franciszek Sterczewski from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Mr President, the speaker is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u35	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! There was supposed to be a program to help achieve the target of 1 million electric cars, and we have about 6,000 of them. There were supposed to be major changes in this subject, but nothing happened in this regard. Poland has committed itself to reduce CO2 emissions from transport to around 14% Whereas only between 2015 and 2018, transport emissions amounted to 36%. This is an outrage. That's the scale. The shame of our government. Why, then, is the Low Carbon Transport Fund being abolished? How does the government intend to help local governments that are already investing in electric buses? Is the government planning some funding programme for citizens and citizens, e.g. for the purchase of bicycles [[♪ The bell ♪]] Electrics that are much more needed than cars? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u36	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Andrzej Grzyb, parliamentary club PSL - Kukiz15 - Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u37	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! First of all, I am in a hurry to explain to Mr Sosnierz that I am not against the parliamentary initiative. I said only in this way that this amendment to the law bears all the marks of the government project, only that it was submitted by Members. That's all. The parliamentary initiative is most desirable. In many cases, it solves many problems. On the other hand, I would like to raise the issue of a substitute levy from the biofuels sector to a large extent, because it de facto reduces the amount of biocomponents and biofuels produced or marketed. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in this Chamber: there is a great deal of merit in protecting the 7% share of biofuels from agricultural raw materials, among other things. National Biofuel Chamber. I very much regret that this subject is underestimated by the novelty of this law. Without their determination... Ladies and gentlemen, I have been involved in this directive. It worked, even though the European Parliament (the bell) had great resistance to set it at all. Without their participation, without their determination, we would really not have this 7% share. They deserve to be consulted with them, especially since the income of this fund or this new measure is supposed to come from among others. from the levy. That is why I would like to raise this issue further. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u38	Thank you very much for raising this issue. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Climate Adam Guibourgé-Chetwertyński. Minister, you have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u39	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very happy with the great interest in this project, because this is indeed an important direction for the development of our country, an important direction when it comes to improving air quality in Poland. This is a very important topic for our citizens. And while the way in which you spoke is different, I see great similarities, first of all, in the diagnosis that something needs to be improved - and I think that this proposal, this parliamentary initiative, is precisely a good direction for improving the spending of funds for the development of electromobility - and, secondly, I see a strong desire and will to act in this direction, expressed almost unanimously, in any case by a large majority of Members, to develop this direction. And I'm very happy for you. [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking to Members of the Civic Platform. It's so nice to meet you. We fought for this: as the Member says, ministers listen. There was a fight about it. Please kindly: as the Minister says, the Members listen. There must be some balance. Minister, you have the floor. And the other side? With a few specific comments that have been addressed to the government in your statements, I can guarantee that all these funds that will be transferred from the Low Carbon Transport Fund to the national fund will be allocated for exactly the same purposes. That is the proposal - to use these funds for exactly the same purposes. By the end of last year a little over PLN 360 million was collected. This 600 is the plan. It's still for this year. We will see if this will come true, but all these funds will be earmarked for these purposes. We have already launched individual and small entrepreneurs grant schemes in the national fund, among others. aid schemes for commercial vehicles, in fact, for part of this amount. The next programs will be launched in the coming months, among others. with regard to electric buses mentioned by Mr Sterczewski in his last intervention. I think that's it for those specific questions that were addressed to us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u40	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law on the amendment of the Law on Liquid Biocomponents and biofuels and certain other laws, contained in prints Nos 437 and 437-A, to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, half a minute, and we are going to meet our beloved Marshal Witek. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 01 hours 10 min 06]] I'm reopening the session. We'll proceed with the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. 399 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - the granting of public aid for the rescue or restructuring of entrepreneurs, - to amend the Act on Competitions for Doctors and Dentists and certain other Acts. The reports are prints 485 and 479. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. With a formal proposal from Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. One minute, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You elected me at the very beginning of your term of office as a member of the Committee on State Control. This committee deals with e.g. the activities of the Supreme Audit Chamber. Unfortunately, the majority recently took the opportunity to convene a meeting of the chairman of our committee, and the situation is extraordinary and requires an urgent, secret meeting to hear the President of Banas and receive a report showing the latest developments in the Supreme Audit Chamber. The President of NIK filed a report to the prosecutor's office on the suspicion of a crime by Vice-President NIK, Mr Dziuba, until recently, and dismissed him from his duties. Therefore, your marshal, I am asking you to formally apply to your marshals, because there is no other way that you would be polite to convene such a secret, confidential, confidential meeting of our committee. This was the request of the President of NIK submitted yesterday, but this request was not consummated because it was not possible even to complete the agenda. Mrs. Marshal! I ask that we be allowed to perform our control duties. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u42	Thank you, sir, but this is not a formal proposal for a session of the Sejm. Where do you say that? Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u43	I bow. God bless you! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am applying for an adjournment in order to convene the Convention of Seniors in order to end the farce - pandemic psychosis, crownapanics in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. Oh, Jesus! Yesterday, I handed to Marshal Terlecek a copy of the book entitled: A false pandemic, but as I understand it, the Marshal doesn't popularize it, [[Applause]] So here's a copy for your marshal. The false pandemic is a collection of texts of scholars, medical practitioners. Time to get it together, time to stop scaring the nation, as well as Members of Parliament with restrictions related to some extensive, multi-level political-propaganda fiction. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u44	Thank you, sir. I will not put this to the vote because the convening of the Seniors Convention is my right, and the request was for a break in connection with the convening of the Convention. Therefore, we do not vote on this proposal, I will not collect the Convention. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on support for the commercial receivables insurance market in relation to the countering of the economic effects of COVID-19. The additional committee report shall be in print No 482-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u45	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Four amendments were tabled to the Act at the time of the second reading. The Public Finance Commission looked at all the amendments yesterday. The first three amendments recommend rejecting, Amendment 4 recommends accepting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u46	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 482. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. 7 applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 214, against - 229, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 8a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 217 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 89 - for, 229 - against, 129 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add an article. 9a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 385 - for, 58 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska will speak before the end. You're welcome. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you, Marshal, for letting me speak, because this is the highest case. What do you really want to do in this bill, because probably some Members haven't even read it. You want to cover the insurance system of commercial claims with State guarantees, only that you make the same mistake once again. Years ago, you held back to control the SKOKs while at the same time the SKOKs were covered by the BFG guarantee. Today is exactly what you want to do with insurance companies that cover commercial claims. Yeah, the market's jammed, that's right. Insurers do not want to insure anyone because of the enormous risks that exist today on the market. The market needs to be helped, but it needs to be done head-on, introducing systemic risk weighting solutions, transaction assessment, reliability verification. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Insurance companies can really work very differently... Thank you, Member. ...and this is the evidence that I'm about to give the Minister that the KNF is refusing... Thank you very much, Member. I'm almost done. The point is that KNF refuses to verify such transactions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u48	Thank you, Member. To the same point, he wanted to ask Mr Grzegorz Braun a question. Please. The Minister is sitting where the Members are. Because he's an envoy. It's not. Your marshal, he's regulating our seats.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u49	There is no such thing as the economic impact of COVID-19. There are consequences of your decisions and omissions in this sphere. There are consequences for you to bring global danger by freezing economic life. That's what we're watching. Socio-economic disaster and abuse of powers as the main principle of the system of the Third Republic and half. We therefore abstain from voting in those laws which you present as a great rescue programme. We call for the abandonment of those practices that block economic life, freeze and degenerate social life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. I am handing over a copy of the book to representatives of the parliamentary majority. Your marshal, once only Members walked in the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u50	Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 482, along with the amendment adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The benches are for Members, not for Ministers and Directors. You have to have a ticket to sit in the benches. 450 Members voted. 234 for, 54 against, 162 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the support of the commercial receivables insurance market in relation to the anti-economic effects of COVID-19. Formal conclusion. Here you go, with a formal proposal, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u51	Dear Marshal! For Members, you regulate the number of seats during the sitting of the Sejm. I referred to you during the sitting that in the parliamentary benches, and not in the government benches, there is a Deputy Minister, not a Member, along with the Director, and I asked you to intervene. It's a good thing the Minister reflected and left at that moment. She heard the comments. But I'm gonna ask you in the future, just as you're trying to discipline the opposition, to maintain similar rigor against your friends and colleagues. And in this case, in a special way, since it's destined for this place. And what is surprising is that the director of the department of one of the ministries can sit on government benches. Messengers. It's normally a shame. You can't treat us this way by regulating our seats and not intervening (the bell) in these matters when we raise such a case. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u52	Thank you, Member. Madam President, I am unable to identify who is and who is not. If that's the case... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] But we talked about it. But please... What's the point of that? What for? We'll tell you. We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 480-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! During the second reading of the government draft law amending the Renewable Energy Act, a proposal was made to reject the draft law in its entirety and four amendments. After considering the proposal and the amendments, the Commission recommends that the High House vote against the proposal to reject the draft law and recommends rejecting the amendments tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u54	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 480. The Commission makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals of the committee irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 204 - for, 233 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 184f and Art. 184g of the Renewable Energy Act, the applicants propose to replace the words "1 October 2020" with "1 July 2021." Amendments 3 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 1, 3 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 206 - for, 238 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2 draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 208 - for, 240 - against, 3 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the amendment. Before voting on the entire bill, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation, will ask the question. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a systemic error that we have to deal with a special law to sort things out for the State Forests. This topic is at all to be considered from a constitutional point of view, how our country is constructed and the law in place. On the other hand, on the occasion of the Renewable Energy Act, one fundamental issue needs to be raised and one fundamental question asked the government: How does the government intend to defend Poland from the agenda of the new green order proposed in the European Union, which will destroy our energy industry, will make electricity prices rise, which will not allow for an evolutionary transformation of our economy, including the energy sector, but will serve the interests of Germany, France? How are you going to approach this? How are you going to actively defend our interests in the European Union? Because this is today the most important, fundamental challenge, not only energy, but also the economic challenge facing Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u56	Thank you. And Mrs Urszula Zielińska, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u57	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I must ask this question: do you really want to allow us to smoke in Polish forests in power plants, which we have less than the rest of the countries in Europe, [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] by generating even more pollution that we have the most in Europe? [[Applause]] Is this your concept of energy transformation? He doesn't know the basic terms. And second question. If you don't mind, second question. Do you want to make the company State Forests dependent on one recipient, the Treasury, who will buy from us at excessive prices, ruining the timber industry in Poland, and which will import? [[Applause]] This is a recipe for ruining the State Forests company and making it dependent on the State Treasury. Don't do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u58	Thank you, Member. You will answer these questions by Minister Michał Woś, Minister of the Environment. Your marshal, in corrigendum mode. But you can correct your misunderstood statement, there was no such situation here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u59	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Many times in the work on the law, at first and second reading it was said that the number of lies and manipulations repeated by the opposition is simply appalling. [[Applause]] Many times we have said that in connection with this law, not one tree in Polish forests will be cut out, not one tree. And you say like a mantra that we will burn Polish forests. Ladies and gentlemen! I have asked this question and I will ask it today: In whose interest have you started such a gigantic scale of manipulation? In whose interest? Yes, sir. High Izbo! The High Chamber must know that Polish power plants, Polish power plants import 2.5 million tons of biomass. Bravo! Where are they importing from? From the Czech Republic, from Austria, from the Federal Republic of Germany, from the East. This costs Polish energy hundreds of millions of PLN. And the coal from where? In Polish forests at the moment 2 million m behind Change your language. What's the bill for?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u60	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 480 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 - for, 206 - against, 13 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Renewable Energy Act. We would like to return to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. The proposal submitted by the Sejm Bureau is that the Sejm should refer the draft law contained in print No 452 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. In the discussion, a request for a second reading was made without delay, without referring the draft to the committee. I will put this motion to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent the bill to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the application for accession immediately to the second reading of the draft law in print No 452, without referring to the committee, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, this is just a procedural issue, we are not considering... 450 Members voted. 216 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on the granting of State aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs (prints Nos 444 and 485). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I present a report to the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on State Aid for the Rescue or Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. High Seym! The Senate has tabled 45 amendments to this bill. Three amendments are substantive amendments and the remaining amendments are legislative amendments. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development recommends that the High House adopt all amendments tabled by the Senate. Due to the interdependence, we also propose a group vote for some of these amendments. This was also supported by the Senate Legislative Office. So instead of 45, we're going to have nine votes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u62	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 7 to 20, 23, 26, 27, 30, 32, 34, 36, 37 and 39 to 42. The Senate proposes drafting and legislative changes. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is opposed to the aforementioned. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 3 - for, against - 446, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the third amendment, the Senate proposes in Article. 3 point (7) (a) a delete the third indent and point (a). b delete the sixth indent. Amendments 44 and 45 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 44 and 45 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, against - 447, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 6th amendment to the article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 of the Senate proposes the new wording of point 3. b. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 1 for, against - 446, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 21st amendment to the article. 20 The Senate proposes among others. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3. that the Minister responsible for Economic Affairs should consider an appeal against the decision to the extent referred to in that provision within 60 days. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. Ten for, against - 439, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 21 The Senate proposes among others. the addition of point 1a. Amendments 31 and 43. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 22, 31 and 43 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 10 for, against - 437, 1 abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 24th amendment to the article. 23 The Senate proposes among others. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 in the introduction to the calculation, so that this provision also applies to the Industrial Development Agency. Amendment 28 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 24 and 28 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 1 for, against - 447, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 25th amendment to the article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) and paragraph 1. 2 point 2 of the Senate proposes inter alia. change of reference. Amendment 29 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 25 and 29 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. No one was against - 449, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 33rd amendment to the article. Article 35 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 The Senate proposes to add a reference. Amendment 38 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 33 and 38 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. No one was for, 448 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 35th amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 37a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, against - 437, 11 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on the granting of public aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am announcing a three-minute break and I ask the Senior Convention to come to the living room. You're welcome. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 minutes 04 hours 11 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to remove from the agenda the third reading of the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and the Real Estate Management Act, prints No 420, 451 and 451-A. We proceed with the examination of item 16 on the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and certain other laws (Prints Nos 447 and 479). I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present a report to the Health Committee on the adoption of the Senate on the amendment of the Act on Competitions for Doctors and Dentists and certain other laws. The Senate included 22 amendments in its resolution. The Commission considered these amendments on 14 July and recommended that the High House adopt 15 amendments and reject seven. In agreement with the Legislative Office of the Sejm, the government and the Senate legislation, some of the amendments have been blocked and we will therefore have 15 amendments to settle. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u64	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 13. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7 do not add lips. 2a-2l. Amendment 14 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 220 for, 217 against, 9 stopped. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. 14a The Senate proposes that in the paragraph. 8. Delete the second sentence. This amendment is combined with the 8th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 2 and 8, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, against - 447, 1 abstention. In the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the inserted article. 15o. 1 The Senate proposes to amend point 2. Amendments 17 and 19 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 17 and 19 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. No one was against - 447, no one held back. In the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 16c The Senate proposes, among others, that in the added mouth. 2a delete paragraph 6. This amendment is combined with the 20th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 4 and 20 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 16 for, against - 427, 2 abstained. In the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 5th amendment to the article. 16ea lips. 1 The Senate proposes to add a second sentence. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 227, 222 - against, he abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 16l The Senate proposes a change in the added paragraph. 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 4 for, 446 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 7th amendment to the article. 16o paragraph 16o 1 The Senate proposes to amend paragraph 7. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. No one was in favor of, uh, 449, 1 holding back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 9th amendment to the article. 16s The Senate proposes a different wording of the paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 9th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 231 - for, against - 209, 11 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 10th amendment to the inserted article. Article 23a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 1 The Senate proposes to delete point 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was against - 449, 2 held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 11th amendment to the article. 25 The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 7. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 230 for, 220 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 12th Amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 39. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 239 for, 210 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 13th Amendment, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 53. This amendment is combined with the 16th amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 13 and 16 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 230 for, 219 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 15th Amendment to the Act on Medical Chambers, the Senate proposes a different wording of the article. 63, Art. Paragraph 113. 1 and the addition of paragraph 1. 1a in this article. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 230 - for, 212 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 18th amendment to the article. Point 15 (7) of the Senate proposes to delete the words "6, 6b.'. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 2 for, against -443, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 21st amendment to the article. Point 27 (4) of the Senate proposes that, after the words "point 26 (a) '. add the words "paragraph 29 (a) '. This amendment is combined with the 22nd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 21 and 22 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. Six for, against -442, one abstention. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this end we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Competitions of the Doctor and Dentist and some other laws and we have concluded the vote today. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 41 hours 11 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering additional questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we begin with the question of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15, Coalition Poland, on aid to people and local governments affected by local floods. This question will be asked to the President of the Council of Ministers, on whose behalf will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation by Minister Anna Moscow. I did it. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u65	Thank you, Marshal. If you've done it, maybe I can do it. Fingers crossed, sir. ...because the subject is very difficult and complicated. I took the liberty of directing, Mr. Marshal, an inquiry to the Prime Minister for assistance to the victims during the floods at the turn of June and July that hit Podkarpata. Several powiats, many towns, have been practically flooded to a degree that prevents normal functioning. The water was so fast that some didn't have time to evacuate from their rooms. Losses are huge, especially in road infrastructure, it is about bridges, culverts, roads, railways, but the flood affected mostly the inhabitants of these districts, and among others. These are the districts: Przemysski, przeworski, ńcucki, Rzeszowski, Bieszczadzki, Jasielski, Krosnieński. There, the damage is estimated at huge amounts. You need money to rebuild. Local governments have a lot of comments about the functioning of Polish Waters, which do not properly comply with maintenance, with the review of watercourses. That is why I asked the Prime Minister questions, which include: I'm being approached by self-government. When will local governments receive funding to remove the effects of excessive rainfall and hurricanes? What kind of funds will that be? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will the Polish water farm take decisive action to improve the state of rivers and streams? Next question: When will a strategic solution for water management be developed, including the construction of retention tanks? This is a serious matter. Some towns are flooded again in the short term and all their possessions are destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u66	Thank you, sir. Your question is in a hurry to be answered by Minister Anna Moscow. There it is. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me answer together on behalf of our ministry and the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, because the topic of competence is divided. First, I'm gonna talk about specifics and handing over emergency assistance. Let me remind you that this emergency aid in the form of benefits of up to 6,000. was transferred everywhere as a matter of urgency, while at the same time funds for renovation of buildings, residential premises - up to 200,000 and for livestock buildings - up to 100,000. zł. This isn't compensation, but helping those most in need to survive the first moment after the flooding and flooding. At the same time, I wanted to point out that as of 15 July 2020, almost 17 million people were transferred from the state budget to aid for more than 1940 families, victims. I'm not gonna serve by voivodship. As regards local government units, these losses are currently estimated, especially within municipal infrastructure. After reporting losses to voivodships, these estimates will be subject to verification and then, on the basis of these proposals, the funds will be transferred. As regards the infrastructure which is in the competence of Polish Waters, the losses are also currently estimated. Let me remind you that these are large hydrotechnical structures, so we still need a while to estimate the final amount of these losses. At the same time, the first effects are removed on an ongoing basis and simple hydrotechnical maintenance works are carried out that are feasible. I would like to remind you that last week a tender was announced by the Polish Waters for the design of the reconstruction of shafts in Łapanów. At the same time, let me mention what we've done. do over the past few years, because these are historical figures and historical actions. 2018 - a total of 3217 tasks were carried out within the competence of the Polish Waters, including on flood shafts at a length of almost 5 thousand. It's a kilometer. In 2019 it is a total of 4561 tasks, the same flood shafts - length 8300. 2020 - we are planning more than 4 000. tasks. The total length of flood shafts subject to work is over 13 thousand. One kilometer of these shafts. At the same time, this year the National Water Farm of Poland intends to carry out investment activities on 250 investment tasks, i.e. these were maintenance tasks, these are investment tasks, for a total amount of almost billion 700, flood prevention activities - 113 projects, billion 100. As regards these long-term measures, i.e. investment, we are now at the end of the programme's flood phase by 2021. We are completing the preparation of further plans for 2022, also in line with the EU perspective. I just wanted to remind you to give a brief summary of the last time. We've finished Malczyce's water level, we're now starting to implement the backup, and the hydro-energy part has been made. Currently we design water grades in Lubieża and Ścinawa, which will also significantly affect the flood function. We are in the process of selecting a project contractor regarding the water level in Sierzewo. I would remind you that this year at the last moment we received the flood tank of Racibórz Dolny. You have often discussed the history of this tank in this House. I remind you that in 2015 it was taken over from the contractor in an absolute mess, it was not possible to complete it. We quickly chose a new contractor. We were successful, the tank was finished. Thus protects the Śląskie, Opolskie, Dolnośląskie voivodships effectively, sufficiently, while providing us with safety in case of discharges from the Czech side. Tanks and other investments currently carried out are Kąty-Myscowa, Wielwieś Klasztorna, four tanks in Kłodzkia Kotlin, passive protection in Kłodzkia Kotlin, the town of Słubice, Odra border, reconstruction of bridges in Odra, Nowa Sól, Widawa water node, comprehensive flood protection project Sandomierz, complex expansion of flood shafts of the Vistula river, Serafy river in Krakow, Vistula river shaft from the mouth of Skawinka to the degree of Kościusko, shaft between the stage of Dąbie and the port of Płaszów, port of Kujawa - flood gate, Tarnobrzeg - comprehensive flood protection, commune of Tarnów - also expansion of shafts on both sides. At the same time, we are in the programming phase of further investments. In the water scarcity programme we have 94 investments planned. This is the perspective until 2027. At the same time, we conclude the planning of the program with a perspective (Bingle) 2050. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u68	Thank you, Minister. Additional question, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u69	Thank you, Minister, for these answers, but apparently these actions are insufficient in terms of Polish Waters, because the situation is repeated every year in many towns and today telling these people or local governments that something is going to be in a year or two, or for not knowing how much, does not solve the problem. The seats of the disaster were visited by the Prime Minister, you visited the President and they know exactly what the situation is. In some places, e.g. in Trzcinica, practically all farms, all houses were flooded. I think it speaks to imagination - it's not as optimistic as you say here. I yesterday from the Marshal of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, who also visited, accompanied the Prime Minister and the President, received a (Bell) letter calling for action. This letter from the Seym was also addressed to the Prime Minister and to the President. Therefore, I will also allow myself to pass on this letter to the Minister and ask that you really take effective action, because local governments have little money this year for many reasons, and above all because 40% of tax revenues have fallen. The disposal itself, because it is all the municipalities that must be disposed of and destroyed, burned, that is huge money, which cannot be estimated so simply, and all of this must be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u70	Thank you, sir. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u71	Thank you very much. Actually, I should say the same thing again. I do not know one who could build or renovate the shafts within a week, and I understand that this expectation of your Member here has now fallen. We carry out consistent actions both maintenance and investment, while at the same time removing losses, flood damage. The estimation of losses is ongoing both by local governments and by the Polish Waters. Once these amounts have been received, we will proceed with the implementation of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u72	Thank you very much. Waldemar Andzel, Jarosław Krajewski, Marek Suski, Michał Jach and Adam Sněžek from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice ask questions about cyber attacks, online fraud, data theft and fraud. Mr Marek Zagórski will be pleased to answer this question. I invite Mr Waldemar Andzel. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! According to the team CERT Polska, which operates in structures of NASK, Scientific and Academic Computer Network, the most common type of cyber attacks in our country is phishing, i.e. attempted data theft, i.e. login and passwords to bank accounts, e-mails and social networks. In 2019, such incidents accounted for around 54.2% all applications to CERT Polska. There are different types of attacks. It is important to mention, for example, the type of popular online fraud, i.e. the so-called Internet fraud. methods for the close-up of extortion of property benefits, including the extortion of an urgent monetary loan by trying to impersonate the account owner and contact his friends or family. Other types of fraud include blocking the computer system for ransom or sending messages to public institutions to trigger a bomb alarm. Network security incidents can be reported at https://incident.cert. en. There is also a list of warnings against false parties. For this reason, I have a question for the Minister of Digitization: How many reports of a security breach in the network in 2019? What is the number of such notifications this year? Is this a growing business? Which age groups are most vulnerable to cyber attacks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u74	Thank you very much. Minister, welcome and welcome to the humble entrances of the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u75	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, this year is unique, among other things, or perhaps primarily due to pandemics and increased use of the network. As the Member has said, we note an increased number of incidents. To see what the scale is, I'm going to start by discussing this one area that CSIRT NASK is dealing with. Let me remind you that the structure of the national cybersecurity system is based on the basic three teams - response teams to computer incidents. These are CSIRT NASK, responsible for the large simplification for the civilian sphere, CSIRT GOV in the ABW, responsible for domains, government administration systems, and CSIRT in the Ministry of National Defence, responsible for the military sphere. In 2019 22 343 notifications were actually received by CSIRT NASK. Here you have to distinguish: not every call is an incident. These notifications are analysed and as a result of this analysis of 6484 notifications were considered as incidents, of which 4086 were classified as computer fraud. And, of course, in this category, the most frequently registered attacks are cases of phishing, i.e. impersonating - that is very important - under another user, person, organization, mainly for extortion or theft of funds. And here these two types of events are most important, of which... It has to be said that these attacks were 3500, and these data concerned, I stress, 2019. Between 1 January and 30 June 2020, 16 689 notifications were received by CSIRT NASK. I remind you that throughout 2019 there have been more than 22 300 of these types of applications. Out of these reports, 5,205 cybersecurity incidents have been identified this year. There were 4127 computer frauds registered, including 379 incidents in phishing. As you can see, the total number of notifications submitted during the first 6 months of this year is approaching the total number of notifications from the previous year. This shows the scale of the phenomenon and, of course, this should be directly linked to the pandemic, which is also worth highlighting - there has been increased activity of criminals in the network around the world. And it is clear that this activity in the network of citizens, actors, causes greater interest, greater activity of criminals, and this is apparent from these statistics. At the same time, it should be stressed that what is positive on this side is a greater awareness of users, because this greater number of notifications is linked to the fact that there is a greater awareness of how to deal with incidents, with cases where the purpose is actually fraud and fraud. It is also worth saying that we had 20 serious incidents in 2020. Here it should be noted that this is a big increase compared to the previous year, because during the whole 2019 serious incidents have been reported only 9. When it comes to what groups are most vulnerable to attacks, it is primarily about children and young people up to the age of 18, because they spend most of their time online and are therefore most vulnerable to attacks. That's what's causing our special needs. In general, we run special campaigns aimed at children. The most comprehensive campaign we have been pursuing since last year is: Do not lose your child online. It is addressed to parents, teachers, but also to children and young people themselves, indicating threats that are in cyberspace. Two other highly vulnerable groups are bank customers and mobile banking users - for obvious reasons, when we talk about extortion, the biggest temptation is where the money is directly available (the Bell) - and mobile phone customers due to the popularity, coverage and universality of these services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u76	Thank you, Minister. I invite you to ask an additional question by Mr Jarosław Krajewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have an additional question about fake online stores. In connection with the epidemic, many of our countrymen started using online shops. Did the Ministry of Digitalization and its subordinates report an increase in incidents involving fake online stores? What does it look like to work with law enforcement in order to cut down on frauds on the Internet as soon as possible, criminal activities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u78	Thank you very much. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u79	Indeed, as I have already said, the biggest, most common phenomenon is phishing and it manifests itself, among others. The fact that impersonating another user is often impersonating online shops. It is also worth saying that this phenomenon, an attempt to extort various kinds - because online shops are one of the categories, you have to pay attention to it, this phenomenon we have seen since the beginning of the pandemic - had a very different dimension. These frauds also had a very different dimension. On the one hand, it was offering products that were fake, because they didn't really have the qualities that sellers were trying to assign to them. There was a list of various types of products that were intended to protect against the coronavirus, a type of special soap, for several hundred zlotys. On the other hand, this really started to take on the scale of the very intensive use of various electronic communication channels, there were false texts, of course the most important ones were false parties of various types. In order to prevent this, on 23 March, an agreement was concluded between the Ministry of Digitalization, NASK, the President of the Office of Electronic Communications and the main operators, namely Orange, Polkomtel, P4 and T-Mobile, whose purpose was to verify and place on a special list of warnings, to block the parties which were false in nature, in particular those parties which were created mainly to extort funds. Currently, there are 2899 domains in the register that have been reported in this mode by operators, reported by users. Then they are primarily blocked, but also information about these sites is communicated to law enforcement authorities, with which both telecom operators and UKE, the Ministry of Digitization and NASK cooperate on an ongoing basis. What is important and what needs to be emphasized: this register is created only during emergency conditions, epidemics. Each report of a suspicious party is verified by at least two persons who deal with it in CERT Poland, in order to avoid mistakes. This site is primarily intended to show telecommunications operators and citizens what possible parties should be blocked from and what parties should not be used from. This is just one of the manifestations (The Bell) of criminal activity, which has definitely increased during the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u80	Thank you very much, Minister. Members Michał Szczerba, Dariusz Joński and Aleksander Mishalski from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition decided to ask questions about irregularities when signing and implementing a contract for the purchase of 1241 respirators. This question will try to cope with the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Health, Minister Janusz Cieszyński. I invite Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The matter that we will be asking with Mr Ionski today is appalling the public. How is it possible that former entrepreneurs who came into the circle of contractors of the Ministry of Health, who simply wanted to earn a pandemic, treated the pandemic commercially as an opportunity to earn, gain a gold mine? Ladies and gentlemen! In the so-called law. Shield 2.0 you have abolished the responsibility of the PiS ministers for exceeding their powers, for causing economic damage or violating the discipline of public finances, but, High Izbo, there is no and will not be our consent not to deal with matters that are appalled. The life and health of Poles and Poles were pawned. 1241 ventilators were ordered in a company that previously dealt with arms trafficking. A company that has had virtually no turnover in recent years in terms of economic activity. Ladies and gentlemen! We want to ask you specific questions. How many ventilators and what kind of respirators were received in accordance with the framework agreement and when? How many ventilators are in the material reserves agency's storage depots and when have they been delivered? Which services verified the reliability of the counterparty and when? What part of the prepayment paid on 14 April 2020 has been repaid to the Ministry's account and within what time limits? How much money hasn't been returned yet? What contractual penalties has the resort charged to the counterparty according to the contract, and how much has it been possible to enforce? And when did the contract end? We're counting on concrete answers, Minister. We would like to say that this matter will be further clarified, will be explained, I hope, someday on the committee of inquiry. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today we expect concrete answers to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u82	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u83	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm going to start by reading you a piece of the letter that arrived at the Ministry of Health on 13 March. This is a letter addressed to Minister Łukasz Szumowski. Dear Minister, On the basis of the article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 9 May on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator against the dynamic rate of SARS-CoV-2 infection, we request that the urgent purchase of respirators necessary for the treatment of SARS-CoV-2 infectious disease be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! Who wrote this magazine? Mr Dariusz Joński. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a letter from March, when you were still prepared to work honestly with the government to combat the epidemic and when you saw for yourself that there was a need to make purchases. Later the situation changed because you saw that your candidate in the presidential election had no chance, which was confirmed in the final result, and you decided to attack. According to the old political rule, you attacked where we were the strongest, which is where... If we look at data from Poland and other countries on how our country and other countries in Europe and the world dealt with the epidemic, we clearly see fewer deaths per million inhabitants in Poland, less infected per million inhabitants than in neighbouring countries than in large European countries, than in countries with which we always compare when we talk about the quality of health protection. And that's why it started with sending a forpost in the form of Mr. Nitras, who trespassed on the briefing to the Ministry of Health. And then, gentlemen, you came and told the public that you were demanding an explanation, you were really doing a political show. Everybody saw it. Questions - answers. Answers, Minister. What you were most interested in was doing a briefing. The best example is when you received confirmation of transfers of funds that returned to the Ministry of Health. Guess what you Members did after they received the information they so desperately requested. They did a briefing at the headquarters of the Central Bureau of Corruption, and they didn't say anything about the facts. But I'll tell you the facts. I'm going to say this again because from the very beginning, we have been transparently and fairly accountable for this whole thing. You're asking me how many ventilators. 200 pieces, 50 companies from Dräger, 150 companies from Meccas, received on 30 June this year. How much money did the Ministry of Health get back? More than 14 million euros have already returned. We have information that more resources will come back to us, too. According to the agreement, we imposed all contractual penalties, which means we did exactly what we should do. These are penalties for not delivering the goods, for withdrawing from the contract. For the delay, we put on the right interest. From the very beginning, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement is fully implemented in the interest of the Treasury. Ladies and gentlemen! These are the facts about this transaction and no further performances by the Members will cover it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Contractual amounts, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u84	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Dariusz Joński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u85	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm sorry it's only one minute, but I'll make it short. It may seem that Law and Justice have created such a system of impunity for money-giving. First there was a protective umbrella, a law that talked about the impunity of those who made orders. Later there were salesmen, i.e. a ski instructor, among others. an arms dealer who, without experience, sold and received a prepayment for this - this is the third point. It's a 60% advance payment. or 100% prices. And four, no responsibility. It's about not being responsible for the fact that these ventilators are gone. You said yourself, maybe correct me: 90 million are missing. In April, you ordered from an arms dealer because you thought he was gonna sell it. It was known that there was no experience. The question I would like to ask today is: Was it an illegal operation of the special forces or a fraud for 90 million? And that is the question I would like to ask Prime Minister Morawiecki. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u86	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u87	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am very sorry, but Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has not given me the authority to answer Mr Ionski's questions about the operation of Polish special services. I am very sorry, therefore, but I must leave your question unanswered. But I'm hoping I can make you feel better, make you feel better. You asked me if the truth was that 90 million were missing. No, sir, that's a lie, another lie of yours. Luckily, I don't think anybody listens to your lies anymore. Thank you. How much is it, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u88	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Krzysztof Gawkowski, Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Karolina Pawliczak, Katarzyna Kretkowska, Anita Sowińska, Wiesław Szczepański and Marcelina Zawisza from the parliamentary club Lewisza decided to ask a question about the implementation of group redundancies and the initiation of a consultation procedure on group redundancies in PAK Kopalnia Węgiel Brunatnego Adamów SA and PAK Górnictwo sp. z o.o. - subsidiaries of the capital group Zespół Elektrowni Pątnów - Adamów - Konin SA. This question was addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers and the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy will answer this question by Minister Stanisław Szwed. I would like to ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, On 1 January the Adamów Power Plant ceased to function, and in May 2020 the decision to cease coal exploitation in the Adams' discovery in the Turkish district was announced. All of this is causing the decommissioning of the oil and energy industry in the area. Greater Eastern Poland. As a result of the decisions of these companies, the collective redundancies procedure began. The subsidiaries of ZE PAK decided to release 237 miners. At the moment, after consulting the trade unions, there will be 187 miners in the territory of one district, the Turkish district. All of this makes you need a state-wide cover-up. It is not enough for instruments known on the labour market, because at the moment the employer has applied only the procedures resulting from collective redundancies, i.e. single-, two- - and three months. The miners in the appeal to the President express their expectation that they will be treated in the same way as the coal miners. They therefore demand that cover schemes such as mining leave, bridge pensions, social benefits, one-off checks be applied to them, granting loans on preferential terms for business purposes. They believe that they have the right, in accordance with the constitution, to be treated on the same principles as coal miners. Therefore, on behalf of these miners, but also of trade union activists, I kindly ask the government to take appropriate action to prevent the disaster resulting from the termination of the mining industry in the territory of the Turkish district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u90	Thank you very much. I invite Minister Stanislaw Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! This question, which is addressed to our ministry, concerns closely the thread that you raised about the group redundancies. But, of course, the problem with the power plant and brown coal mining team in the Pątnów-Adamów-Konin triangle is wider and I think we would also need to have a broader discussion on the economic issues and those mentioned here by the Member. First of all, it is a private company, i.e. those decisions which the owner makes, do not lie on the side of the Treasury. I can only confirm this information which you have presented - the exclusion of the block in Adamów, Pątnów or Konin in the last 30 months is about 1300 thousand. MW less, so to speak, and lower extraction due to the fact that the blocks do not function then. And it's like it's a key thing. As regards redundancies, on 18 May the Management Board, in accordance with the Law on special rules for the termination of employment relationships for reasons not affecting employees, notified the intention of group redundancies. According to the procedure, he reported it to the trade unions. Negotiations are ongoing in this regard. Here I can only confirm that as far as numbers are concerned, in this first stage, when it comes to the Brunat coal mine of Adams, it is 111 people, it is the Turkish district, and 126 people in PAK Mining, i.e. the Zespół Elektrowni Pątnów - Adamów - Konin. Here, the information we receive shows that there are discussions on what will be the final number, and whether there will also be another range of support from company owners in terms of statutory checks that are announced. And it's like this thread. Of course, this is also the case, here I go to the question about the cover program, that today it still applies to quite a small group of workers when it comes to redundancies. We also have, when it comes to Wielkopolska, a good situation on the labour market, because the Wielkopolska voivodship is always proud that it has the lowest unemployment rate, although the region we are talking about, in this voivodship is the region where unemployment is higher. Last data: Wielkopolskie Voivodship - 3,6%, Turkish district - 4,7% , Konin County - 9.5%. So that's the district that's the territory. the operation of mines and Konin Power Plant, there is also a higher level of unemployment than at national level. Let me remind you that the level of unemployment at national level is 6.1%. In this respect, we do not have any special instrument, but we use those instruments which are in the county labour offices, both in Turku and Konin. This concerns both the activities that are being undertaken, the provision of information on employment mediation and the acquisition of vacancies - such offers also affect these employment offices - as well as the launch of a special survey. As for this survey, willing employees can also apply, then the county labour office has the opportunity to ask the Ministry for additional resources for active forms of prevention of unemployment. And such measures, of course, if there is such a demand, we will run. Today, these measures for active forms of combating unemployment in these offices are being launched, they are functioning, so that this information can also be used. I think the information we received from the Ministry of Assets is still important. This is a matter of speeches that have been received by Prime Minister Sasin. You also received these answers. One of these threads will be brief. The opportunity to solve the problems of PAK, the Coal Mine of the Adams is to benefit from the support offered under the Platform of Mining Regions in the Transformation Process, which aims to collect projects that can help transform mining regions. The European Commission selected 41 mining regions in the Member States of the European Union in 2018. Six such areas have been identified in Poland. The qualification by the European Commission of a given region as a mining region opens up the possibility of joining such a programme. On this basis, it has been incorporated so far [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the program Dolny Śląsk, Wielkopolska, Małopolska, while Śląsk is in the pilot program and here the Ministry of State Assets is open to cooperation with both the company's owners and the local government, because it is important that these three bodies, the parties participate in this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u92	Thank you, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Tomaszewski Tadeusz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u93	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, You've said nothing but labour market instruments. Unfortunately, the situation in relation to the decommissioning of the fuel and energy sector requires broader government cover measures. Yes, indeed, yesterday, Prime Minister Sasin, in response to my interpellation, said, among others.: However, at present there is no social protection scheme for workers in the lignite sector. This shows that these actions should be taken in the opposite order. This programme for the mining industry, which you mentioned, carried out in cooperation with the European Commission, is a future action. The redundancies are happening today, people need new jobs today. The situation in the labour market in eastern Wielkopolska is not so pink, because Elektrobudowa, Fugo, Volkswagen September announced group redundancies of 700 people. These are the next group redundancies in this part of Wielkopolska (The Bell), so these instruments may turn out to be too small. In addition, we are in a pandemic period and it is very difficult to find a new job for miners. Hence the request that the government, all the resorts, take a special look at the situation in that region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u94	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u95	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Speaker! Here, of course, information about the functioning of the crisis shield, the financial shield, which also strongly supports the protection of jobs, could also be provided. This also applies to the Wielkopolska voivodship and the region we are talking about. Of course, here, this support is and also applies to those extreme cases where redundancies occur. In situations like this, there's support. As I said, if we look at the labour market in the country, this situation in Wielkopolska is good, but of course any dismissal is always for the person who is being fired, a big shock, and we need to look for solutions to help these people. I think it's worth it, I can also make such a declaration... We have a trilateral team on the brown coal sector, operating at the Social Dialogue Council, which includes representatives of both private employers and the Treasury, as well as trade union organisations. The problem is, as the Member rightly pointed out, not only those mines we are talking about at the moment, but the whole brown coal sector, even because of what is happening in the EU countries and what decisions are made in the European Commission. So that I think that the trialogue will also gather on this issue and we will be actively involved in this team. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u96	Thank you very much. Barbara Bartus, Joanna Borowiak and Lidia Burzyńska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice decided to ask a question about the actions taken by WOT soldiers during the Cortipoid epidemic to assist services, among others. medical and sanitary, and providing support to citizens. Mr Mariusz Błaszczak, Minister of National Defence, will answer this question. I invite Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Territorial Defence Forces created on 1 January 2017 by the Act amending the Act on the Universal Obligation to defend the Republic of Poland from 16 November constitute a significant strengthening of the Polish Army. They're always at the station where they're needed. I am very pleased that these troops are also appreciated by the entire Ministry and that today Minister Mariusz Błaszczak is answering our question personally, because he is a minister at the head of the Ministry who cares about the security of our country, our homeland, and in every way. The territorial defense forces are also everywhere where people need help. They both care about the safety of the hydrate, as well as strongly, you can say, they work well during the period of Coronavirus. Fortunately, it is a bit eluded, but I think we all remember the situation at the beginning of the pandemic in Poland. We remember the beginning of March, this fear, and we remember the Territorial Defence Army, which were everywhere where help was needed. And that is why I would like to ask the Minister: What number of soldiers took part in actions supporting the fight against the coronavirus in the country, and what did it look like in different regions, in different voivodships? What actions were carried out by the territorial defence troops in the fight against the epidemic? Has this help also been appreciated by Poles? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u98	Thank you very much. Hello, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak and welcome to the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for the question raised by the Members. I would like to emphasise the very important role of the Territorial Defence Army in crisis situations. I would like to stress that, in my deep conviction, but not just mine, because also the people with whom I had the opportunity to talk, the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army have proven themselves. They're always ready, they're always close. They help victims both during the epidemic and during the flooding. For example, two weeks ago, during a wave of submersibles in the south of Poland, the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army were in place. High Izbo! Coronavirus epidemic has been one of the greatest threats in recent decades. However, it also brought with it one positive thing. No one in Poland can have doubts anymore As to the usefulness of the Territorial Defence Forces. We have been able to observe the determination, stubbornness and involvement of people serving in the WOT every day of the fight against the pandemic. I would like to begin by thanking you for the titanic work that soldiers have done and continue to do. Each of us parliamentarians should bow our heads to the soldiers in the olive berets. It's our duty. My speech concerns the Territorial Defence Army, but we must not forget that thanks are also due to the operating troops and military medics. High Seym! The balance of WOT support during the epidemic is impressive and fully confirms the need for this formation. This assistance is provided to hundreds of hospitals, social services houses, educational institutions and social organizations. Already in March, I signed a decision whereby the soldiers of the Territorial Defence and Military Gendarmery supported the police while patrolling the streets and controlling quarantine compliance. On average, 620 military-police patrols went into the field every day. The Pandemic has hit extremely hard at social welfare homes, whose residents are particularly at risk of infection. In the face of the growing number of infected and frequent local authorities' indifferences - unfortunately this was the case, I would like to stress that social assistance houses are mainly run by local government units or private entities - among other things, they have been involved in helping individual institutions. It's territorial. Soldiers provided support in evacuation, restoring the ability to operate social services homes. They transported guesthouses, among others. in Trees or Koleczków, they evacuated social services houses in Pleszewo, Chernichów and Kalisz. WOTs provided support in more than 536 social services homes, and soldiers stayed in contact with the management of all over 800 institutions in Poland. The territorial defense forces have taken care of over 3,000. Older people, combatants, families of medics and lonely people. They've transported over 40,000. t food and more than 260 000. packages with personal protective equipment to the needy and carried out more than 700 transports out of more than 7.5 thousand. t goods delivered up to 2 000. distribution sites. The help of the Territorial Defence Forces in diagnosing patients was invaluable. In places that are difficult to access and in situations where the speed of action is most important, mobile sampling points, i.e. test and go, were used by soldiers. The military has launched over 20 such points. Some of them still work. At the initiative of the territorials, a free helpline was created with psychological assistance, which provided support to people in crisis. In time, it became a direct aid to parents who had to organize their children's remote teachings. Currently, WOT helps organizers of colonies and scout camps to prepare safe holidays. High Izbo! The scale of involvement of WOT soldiers is all the more impressive that they are volunteers, most often with other professional obligations as well. Thus, many representatives of the opposition are astonished, who keep repeating the need to reform WOTs or even to liquidate them. I stress: I will not allow the territorial defence forces to move. I'm not gonna let you suffocate that enthusiasm. [[Applause]] patriotic upset great people without whom the fight against the epidemic (The Bell) would not be possible. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u100	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for the information you gave. I have to say, what you're talking about is really impressive. The extent of the involvement of volunteers, the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, not only in service, but also in helping the people who are carrying them, is really huge. The soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army are appreciated by society, but unfortunately they are not appreciated by all parliamentarians, especially I think of the words used by the Members of the Civic Platform who have recently tried to depreciate and ridicule the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army. There were phrases such as running with wooden guns or accusations that they didn't have exercises, they couldn't shoot, etc. The soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army are appalled by this because I have received many such voices. At the hand of the Minister, I would like to express my heartfelt thanks to them for their dedication to the ministry, for their sacrifice in helping, especially to the seniors. And one more question, Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the situation with regard to the number of Territorial Defence Forces and their deployment in Poland at the moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u102	Thank you, Member. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to stress that the Territorial Defence Forces have proven to be the territorial defence forces, I hope, have permanently entered into the landscape of the operation of services in crisis situations. I've heard from a lot of people saying thank you for the fact that the WOT soldiers were on duty, they were on time that they were helping. I would also like to thank President Andrzej Duda, who supported him, and declare his full support, for the development of the youngest type of Armed Forces. It is extremely important that the Territorial Defence Forces develop. I'm going to give you a couple of numbers saying that this process is happening and it's happening dynamically. At the end of 2017, the Territorial Defence Army had 7600 soldiers, with 24 300 soldiers at the end of last year. I just spoke to the colonel - within a month, only 1100 soldiers joined the Territorial Defence Army. That's what it says. [[Applause]] with a great commitment, a great sense of patriotism, but also a desire to serve others, who devote some of their spare time to serving others. The structure of the Territorial Defence Army is developing, and this is a process that runs smoothly. And a few more general information on how to engage in the fight against the coronavirus. The total number of WOT personnel involved at that time is 20 347 people. Total number of medical entities supported - 632, including 496 hospitals, 118 medical facilities, 18 nursing rooms. The total number of swabs taken is 129 398. The total number of food transports to social assistance centres and non-profit organisations from food banks is 5603. I could multiply that data here. Maybe the total number of honorary blood donors - 6232, maybe the total amount of food in tonnes delivered to social services centres - 48,000. a. High Seym! During the outbreak, the territorials were wherever we needed them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] They filled it in 100%. Your motto: Always ready, always close. Once again, I would like to stress strongly: the liquidation of the WOT is to harm the state and to act to the detriment of our homeland. We're not gonna let that happen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u104	Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. We move to the question of Mrs Iwona Hartwich and Ms Eve Kołodzie from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. The question will concern people with disabilities after 18 years of age, who are not included in the Act on Polish Tourist Bone. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy. Please, Mrs Iwona Hartwich. Yours is the platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u105	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! He's in charge of the PiS! President Andrzej Duda! People with disabilities have been deceived by you. They've been tricked again. The Solidarity Fund, which was to be established exclusively for persons with disabilities, was intended for other purposes. The so-called Law. 520 PLN, proclaimed and promoted by Mr Rafalska and Mr Kopcinska, turned out to be mere fraud. None of the people with disabilities have even saved a dollar until today. Throughout your reign, you've been saving up on people with disabilities. You don't have any empathy or humanity. You're afraid to count the minimum social for them. You know perfectly well that this starving social pension, which is deeply inadequate, means that there's no chance for a decent life, for rehabilitation, for treatment. During the pandemic, you robbed the weakest, robbed people with disabilities again. You have spent 50 million less on respite care and care services. Your present heartless decision, about the Polish Tourist Bone Act, is highly unfair. Have you run out of resources or will? Because I'm sure you've run out of empathy. Stop discrimination against people with disabilities, stop sharing. There are standards of decency. My question. Why didn't the PiS government include in the Act on Polish Tourist Bon persons unable to exist independently after 18 years of age, receiving a supplemental benefit of 500 PLN? I would also like a written answer to that question. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u106	Thank you, Member. Please, Minister Andrzej Gut-bridge. Welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Messengers! The Polish Tourist Bonus as a project of the President is a project that combines elements of social policy... He needs to be changed. ...that is, any child entitled to 500+ will receive a benefit of 500 PLN, with additional funds also being allocated to disabled persons, as well as to persons in the so-called. coordination of European benefits. They are usually families where one parent works abroad. Over 6 million children can benefit from the programme. According to data and trends in families, the number of children born in 2020 and 2021 can be estimated at around 740 thousand. These children will also be supported in the form of a voucher. Polish families will receive 500 PLN per child regardless of their salary, as in the case of the 500+ programme. This benefit will be available until 31 March 2022. Persons raising children with disabilities will be entitled to an additional benefit in the form of a voucher of PLN 500 per child, i.e. a total of PLN 1 000. zł. The number of children with disabilities is about 300,000, while the estimated number of children who will be disabled during the project, i.e. by the end of December 2021, will be around 137 000. The Act will cover children with a light, moderate or significant disability judgment, i.e. all types of disability. For children with disabilities, the Act on Polish Tourist Bone provides 437 million PLN, with the whole project being about 4 billion PLN. Once again, I will stress: PLN 437 million under the Polish Tourist Bonus will be devoted to benefits for children with disabilities, for families with children with disabilities. In my opinion, the assessment of these facts and figures depends, of course, on the High House and the honourable Members. Importantly, it is a unique project on a European scale. There are no projects which combine social policy and economic policy in such a way as to stimulate tourism, which has been hit so hard by the COVID epidemic. What is important, Mr President's proposal about the Polish Tourist Bon, which had previously had different versions - were also in the public debate projects according to which this tourist voucher would be accessible to people, for all those who are not earning - of course it was so redirected, so defined by your President that it has very outstanding elements of social policy. And what is important is that there is no ambition for this project to replace the whole social policy of the state. It's just one of the elements. In conclusion, I would like to stress once again: PLN 437 million within the framework of the draft Act on Polish Tourist Bon will go to children with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u108	Thank you very much. Additional question, Mrs Iwona Hartwich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You completely misunderstood my question, because I ask about people after 18 years of age with disabilities to a significant extent, who receive help from the government, 500 PLN. I would like to ask you to remind President Andrzej Duda, who in 2018 had just promised to help this group in particular, people after 18 years of age. He promised this during the protest. Just like people with disabilities in the state, not giving them a chance to relax, because you don't think they deserve it, you tricked pensioners and pensioners. You promised them a travel voucher of PLN 1000. Right after the election, you lost your memory. The president and the government must keep their promises. And yet I think that these stories from moss and ferns are really coming out (the bell) of Mr. Matthew Morawiecki. Do you think that this group, the pensioners and the Renticists, should not be helped? My question: Why has a group of pensioners been omitted from the Polish Tourist Bone Act? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u110	Thank you very much. We invite the Minister again to answer why this happened.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u111	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Messengers! The Polish Tourist Bonus is aimed at about 6 million children. As part of the project, approximately PLN 4 billion is expected. Of course, it would be possible to argue why not all Poles, why more social groups did not receive these funds, but probably the possibilities of the state budget decided that only PLN 4 billion could be allocated for this. What is important, during the work on the tourism voucher project, there has never been a declaration that the database of those entities for which the tourist voucher will be allocated will be significantly extended. What is also important, as the Ministry of Development cooperated with the President's Office and served with its knowledge and experience, it was very important - that this project be launched already in July or August, i.e. within 2 and 3 weeks - that the database of these beneficiaries of the tourist voucher be clearly defined and it could be created quickly so that funds could be paid in August as part of the Polish Tourist Bonus, because the tourism industry is waiting for it. Therefore, the project aimed at the beneficiaries of the 500+ programme was the best at the moment, as the Social Insurance Institution has such a base. Finally, I would like to stress once again: PLN 437 million will be allocated to children with disabilities as part of the presidential bill on the Polish Tourist Bone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u112	Thank you very much. Members Marek Polak and Leonard Krasulski of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice ask a question about infrastructure investments in a time of crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. This question will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Minister Rafał Weber, whom we warmly welcome. There you go, Mr Marek Polak. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u113	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, The economic crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus broke out in Poland at a time when large infrastructure projects are being carried out throughout the country, the most important of which is the construction of the excavation of the Vistula mine, as well as preparations for the construction of the Central Communication Port. It is also worth mentioning that the implementation of other numerous road tasks, as well as expensive railway investments, is ongoing throughout Poland. There were therefore concerns that, in the current situation, the implementation of these investments could be jeopardised. Such opinions were also raised in the statements of some opposition candidates for the office of the President of the Republic of Poland during the last election campaign, who directly called for the suspension of these investments. Therefore, I would like to ask whether the pandemic of Coronavirus actually has a negative impact on both the timeliness and the deliberate achievement of these tasks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u114	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u115	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that each of us had concerns at the beginning of March when the outbreak of Coronavirus in the world was very strong in Europe. Then also the Ministry of Infrastructure and those who carry out investments on our behalf, road and rail, had concerns that this would not affect the timeliness of the implementation work, on the timeliness of the construction work. And from the very beginning, both Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Andrzej Adamczyk have created such a legal area, so as not only to maintain all road and rail investments that are being carried out, but also to improve, improve and allocate more funding for public investment. And five months after the start of the Coronavirus epidemic, we can say with a clear conscience, hand at heart that the epidemic did not affect the timeliness of both road and rail works. This is the result of excellent cooperation between the whole construction industry. This is the result, as I said, of the reasonable, prudent and accurate decisions of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk. This is the result of the activities which were carried out and continue to be carried out by public contracting, i.e. the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways, as well as railway companies PKP PLK and PKP SA. Coronavirus of Polish buildings did not stop. Of course, in some places there were temporary problems, e.g. with the supply of components, but the executive industry, which I very much thank for its cooperation, has dealt with these problems. All the programmes that were implemented at the beginning of this year are also implemented after this period of 5 months of epidemic duration, also the National Road Construction Programme for the years 2014-2023 and as part of this programme at the moment almost 100 investment tasks: construction of highway lines, construction of expressways, construction of ring roads. It's all being run, it's all being realized. As well as other road investments on networks: modernisation of existing roads, adaptation to 11.5 t axle pressure, tasks of improving road safety, modernisation of viaducts, bridges. It is a total of nearly 600 investment titles, which are currently being implemented on national roads. It is also necessary to add to these investments unabsorbed local investment and financing of local investments, the Self-Government Road Fund. On 15 April the Prime Minister approved a list of tasks and gminas, and powiats, almost 2,300 investment titles, which are also implemented by municipalities and powiats. This is PLN 3200 million for 2020. And in the previous week the voivodships announced recruitments for 2021, so that consistently and systematically the Self-Government Road Fund is run, is implemented. The financing by the Government of Law and Justice is provided, as is the financing of other mechanisms supporting local road construction. The general subsidy reserve - she was also approved in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance. 110 investment titles, 110 road tasks in voivodships and cities on the rights of the county, as well as in Polish powiats thanks to this support is implemented in 2020. The same is true for railway tasks, among others. those under the national railway programme. Here we have 230 investment titles. There is a program of railway investments implemented by PKP SA. Here we have 189 investment titles. There is a rail+ programme dedicated to local authorities to recreate these lines of regional importance. The call's on. The first recruitment will be completed in the second half of August. We see a lot of interest in local governments. We hope that this will turn into proposals so that these very important rail connections, which are regionally important, are implemented. So that, ladies and gentlemen, not only investments have not been stopped, but also thanks, as I said, to good, reasonable, prudent decisions and legal decisions, and financial investments are being carried out. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the most powerful example of the fact that we want to invest as much as possible in public investment is the change of the national road construction programme and the extension of the limit by another PLN 22 billion in order to realize the S6 expressway in Pomerania or the section of the S10 expressway from Bydgoszcz to Torun. And the CPK is in the preparatory phase, and investments consisting in overcoming the Vistula mine, although it is run by another resort, are also progressing according to the plan, according to the schedule. So that once again I warmly thank all those who have worked hard for this in the last 5 months, and continue to work to ensure that road investments, rail, are carried out on schedule. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u116	Thank you very much. Additional question, Mr Marek Polak. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u117	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Thanking you for this comprehensive and optimistic information, I would like to mention in a few more words the numerous statements made by Minister Andrzej Adamczyk, who firmly assures that all planned investments, both road and rail, will continue despite the pandemic of Coronavirus, and ensures that the implementation of these tasks, on the one hand, allows for the organisation of work in a safe way for the health of workers at the construction site and on the other hand has sustainable and stable funding, while favourable weather can produce even higher results than originally assumed. But on the occasion, I would like to ask the Minister, or, in fact, ask him to confirm, possibly deny: Is this optimistic and good information still valid and has nothing changed and is nothing threatening it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u118	Minister, commend your resort again. Please? Praise your resort again. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm talking with a lot of empathy. It's a pleasure to hear it. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u119	Oh, thank you very much, Marshal. Please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: I think the truth can never be too much, the facts can never be too much. That is why I will use these almost 3 minutes to emphasise once again that public road and rail investments are not halted as much as their scope is extended. Ladies and gentlemen, the COVID-19 epidemic has brought infrastructure and contracting departments closer to the executive industry. We had meetings in an interval almost a few days, where we discussed the problems that occur on construction sites and, as I say, we took legal action to solve these problems. Ladies and gentlemen, this has worked out, and it has worked. We want to maintain this close cooperation, of course, now. Once again, I would like to thank the entire executive industry, all executive companies, subcontractors, organisations that bring this industry together for such a close, good and effective cooperation, hoping that after the health situation has stabilised, this cooperation will continue to be at the same, very good level. I also provide self-government... Because here there was a very big concern whether the programmes for support of local road or rail investments would not be withdrawn. As I said, in the epicenter of this epidemic itself, in April, the Prime Minister approved the list as regards the Regional Roads Fund in 2020, while in the previous week the Voivodeships announced recruitment for 2021. 3200 million PLN, such measures can be applied for by the counties and municipalities. So that I assure all local authorities that these road programmes - both in 2020 and in the following years, and the Self-Government Road Fund is set up by 2028. - they will be maintained and the financing of these programmes will be ensured. Thank you, Mr President, for your questions, for your interest in this subject. We also look at public investment through the prism of maintaining a high level of Polish economy. We estimate that about 1.5 million people work in the construction industry - these are builders, these are employees of cooperative companies, suppliers - and really financing these investments is not only necessary to improve communication, to shorten distances, to improve communication safety, but also necessary to maintain a high level of economic performance. And it is also in the course of the health epidemic that is of enormous importance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u120	Thank you very much, Minister. After your words, he wants to get on the road. And I will. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And I will. Ms Monika Wielichowska and Mr Grzegorz Napieralski from the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will ask a question about the dramatic situation of the music industry, which represents more than 3.5% GDP and is a significant branch of the Polish economy. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Marek Niebóżak, whom we warmly welcome. There you go, the question will be asked by Monika Wielichowska. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u121	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The creative industry, the artistic industry through the pandemic is in an extremely difficult situation. She's been frozen first, and she's still not working. Thousands of people are left with no day-to-day income, no leases, no loans, no future. Without thawing this sector, without the right time to raise the industry from the crisis, and without demand for services, the industry will disappear forever from the Polish market. Despite the loosening of restrictions, it is not possible to return to normal in this sector, as the economic crisis has translated into the withdrawal of public and private investors. Industry accounts for 3.5% GDP and is an important part of the Polish economy, which is built by the work of stage technicians, sound engineers, lights, riders, animators, builders, musicians, artists, agents, producers. That's over 300,000. jobs. These are all those who, with their professional work on world-class equipment, most often leased and in loans, consist of the end result of every artistic event, every festival, concert, conference or event. This is an industry that requires individual look and state aid, because this sector will not get back on its feet this year. All aid within the framework proposed by the government of the shield ends. And then what, Minister? Does the government know that 7200 mass events will not take place this year through the pandemic, there will be thousands of ticketing events and more than 7 000. The concerts aren't gonna happen? Does the government know that in the current state of PKD industry activity is only 10% ? Does the government know that the owners of technical companies due to lack of orders, lack of work are unable to pay lease payments and are handed over to bailiffs and debt collectors like common crooks? What has the government done so far to lean on the demands of the industry? Has the government established a dialogue with the Polish Chamber of Estrada Technology or the Chamber of Economic Managers of Polish Artists? It's the entrepreneurial chambers of the industry, which have been in business for weeks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] ask for help, inform about their problems and prepare a package of proposals that would help them survive - we open concerts. Can you see them or can you hear them? Did you hear that, Minister? Because they're protesting. Which of their demands will be included in the next shield? At what stage is the development of a roadmap for a return to normal rules of the creative industry, the industry, Minister, who will not survive without state aid? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u122	Thank you very much. I'd like to invite the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Here's what I'm gonna say: I'm gonna start with some questions that were asked at the end, i.e. If we're in contact with the industry. I speak on behalf of the Minister of Development, although of course this is a field primarily of Minister of Culture. I also have some information from this department. As for the meetings of Prime Minister Emilewicz with the entertainment and concert industry, I have information about three such meetings. The last one took place on June 16th and July 2nd. In the near future, i.e. On July 21st, we also have a meeting: using the hospitality of the Polish Employers, Minister Olga Semeniuk, my colleague from the Ministry, will meet, among others. with a representative of the Association of Organizers for Art and Entertainment Events. So that we are in the current contact with representatives of this industry and we are aware that this is an industry particularly affected by the difficult situation. However, we must remember that there is still a pandemic. Please pay attention. In fact, that outbreaks of disease occur very often on the occasion, permitted of course, I do not know, weddings, weddings, and, to be honest, I fear that a concert event in some way could give birth to similar risks. However, to be a little more specific, I would like to draw attention to the schedule for freezing this industry. This is the information I have from the Minister of Culture and National Heritage. From 6 June it is possible to conduct cultural and entertainment activities in rooms, amphitheaters and concert shells, assuming that we have second place, rows are alternate. From June 20th - in concert halls, music clubs, show and sports halls, in amphitheatres, concert shells assuming we have 50% Plenty of room in the O.R. From 20 June - in outdoor sports facilities, and from 17 July also organize events in an open space without a limit of 150 people, provided the social distance is maintained. As far as I know, the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Culture, together with the Minister of Health and the Chief Sanitary Inspector, shall consult on the possibility of further lifting these restrictions. However, these conditions should be borne in mind. They're objective and they're what they are. I'm afraid so. We have an example of Israel, don't we? This is a country that at this point is experiencing a second wave of infections with a disease, although until recently it was shown as one of the patterns of dealing with the effects of the epidemic. Of course, I would like to look forward to the future and I would like what you have called the normal functioning of this industry to have a chance to come back as soon as possible. Not in a year, Minister. However, these conditions are quite objective and we are aware of that. I refer to the topic of aid measures. I realize this help is never gonna be enough, right? There will always be a group about which we will say that they did not get you, and this is a thread that is coming back, while I think that the aid that is being provided really has an unprecedented scale in Poland. Now I don't even want to give global numbers, but at least think about the fact that for the first time in the history of the III Polish Republic in the form of parking provision support was received by people working, cooperating, so to speak, not those working for employment contracts, only in the framework of some orders, cooperation, as well as those operating independently. This is an example of help, which, as it is said, within the framework of an anti-crisis shield was given to these people in the amount of either PLN 2000 or PLN 1300. I also know that someone can say, "What kind of money is this? But, as I say, in the history of the Third Republic of Poland, it has not yet happened that people cooperating in this form of state care, and I realise that in this industry very many people cooperate in this form. There are other forms of assistance, such as a solution for vouchers and reimbursement of the amount already paid by customers within 180 days. So it's not like the state isn't thinking about this business. Aid measures have been addressed there, some aid solutions have been adopted and we are trying to defreeze it, but all this must be in proper sanitary security, we must remember that we have a pandemic. Thank you. [[Applause]] Minister, I know all this, but if there are no events, there will be no concerts...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u124	Thank you very much. I rarely take advantage of such an opportunity, but I wanted to tell you, Minister, that one of the people I care about is working in the industry, in a stage design company, building scenery. As far as I know, there were no jobs in the whole business... Zero. ...already abstracting from this company that I'm thinking about right now, since March - none at all. I understand the whole thing about not being able to help everyone, but I think you have to know and try because there are companies that don't have six months of orders, and they have their credits, they have their stories. So that I think that the questions of Mrs Napieralski and Mrs Napieralski are absolutely legitimate, simply to draw attention to these companies. I don't have any patronage, but there are actually companies, and it's a tragedy for them. Sorry about the personal trip. Mr Grzegorz Napieralski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mrs Wielichowska said that she understood that there was a pandemic, that there was really a crisis, but she asked very specific questions. The point is, this industry didn't get any help. Imagine that the concert isn't just a star that's on the stage, that's what the Marshal was talking about. Someone's got to build this scene, somebody's got to light it up, turn it up. There's gotta be a security company, there's gotta be a company that can insure her. I don't know if the Minister knows that voluntary firefighters are also being paid. You have to pay for the ambulance, and you also have to pay for the company that cleans up after the concert. That's about 300,000. people who have no means of living today, I repeat: no means of living. There's no record today, no help for these people. The government didn't lean over them. We understand that there can be no concerts, we understand that there can be no different events, but we want this industry (the Bell) to get those people who have families and loans to get help. Because these aren't just the concerts we see at the National Stadium or the big stars that come to us from outside our country. These are also small events, e.g. in municipalities. Festivals. They're canceled, too, and in their organization, people made money. We ask you very much to meet with these chambers of commerce, these people, to lean down and find a way to help them. They won't be working till the end of the year, there's no chance of that. Even such a great event - Mr. Marshal, if you can still for a while - such a great festival as the Opens Festival. He's already been wiped out. Maybe next year. I'm saying maybe because we don't know what's going to happen. You don't make such big deals overnight. A hairdresser can really plan to open a bet overnight. Such a great event, you know, cannot be organized overnight. You have to have all the permits, you have to be prepared, insured. Minister, we ask you very much to meet with this industry and to provide specific assistance for these people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u126	Thank you very much. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I'm going to answer a little bit on both sides, in two directions. I mean. I absolutely hope it didn't sound that way. I do not question the reasonableness or validity of this question, nor do I question the fact that this industry is in a very difficult situation. This is not the only industry that has found itself in such a difficult situation, although I am convinced that this is one of the few that the pandemic hits due to their particularities. Just as I say, these are objective circumstances. But where we disagree. However, I cannot agree with the statement that no assistance was granted to these people, because, as I say, they had parking rights, they still have them, they have been exempted from ZUS contributions. These are, of course, not only solutions addressed to this industry, but widely to all entrepreneurs, to all business people, e.g. in the case of exemption from ZUS contributions, whether to all persons working or providing their work on a basis, I do not know, orders, as in the case of parking benefits or micro-credits. On the contrary, a great deal of help has been given. I am aware that this aid must be understood literally. It's not like she's gonna replace those people's income. If they really have the whole season, if you can say so, they are out of line in the sense that these events will not be held for objective reasons, then we can't expect you to replace this industry at this point in time. I am based on information obtained from the Ministry of Culture, which shows that much greater resources have been directed to the widely understood artistic industry. I see the data about the programme "Culture in the network" with a budget of PLN 80 million, I see loan guarantees for the creative sector offered by BGK for the amount of PLN 500 million. The programmes of the Minister of Culture have been increased to PLN 390 million... But they're not festivals and concerts. ...which is multiple times compared to the previous year. So this help is. I realize that from the perspective of someone who had, say, a thriving event company, as it is not quite Polish to say, and now these events do not exist, this solution will not fully satisfy this person, because she would prefer to have a well-functioning company. As a representative of the minister responsible for economic affairs, I'd prefer that too. I wish there were as many parties as possible. On the other hand, we are aware of the situation and that resources are limited. As part of its capacity, the State is trying to support entrepreneurs, including entrepreneurs in the industry. This has been done - I am now talking about the measures that have gone specifically, have been passed on to people of culture - let's say, looking at these data from the Ministry of Culture, amounts going into hundreds of millions of zlotys. But these are museums, theaters. I really think it's not like the government forgot. Speaking of meetings, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I've been talking about. We're meeting, I've given you specific dates for the Prime Minister's meetings. The next meetings are planned, so we really are in dialogue with this industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u128	That is what we wish for effectiveness in this dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Barbara Bartus from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will ask you about the progress of the national road extension work no. 28 on the section from Nowy Sącz to Jasła, with particular emphasis on plans to expand the turbine roundabout in Gorlice and the need to build the Gorlic and Grybow bypasses. That question will be answered by Minister Rafał Weber, whom we have already welcomed once. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u129	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! As the marshal said, we have greeted the Minister once before in response to the previous question. I would like to thank the Minister very cordially that no road investments are halted because we have been affected by the crisis of Coronavirus or, more specifically, by a very large, upcoming economic crisis. Road investment is also an opportunity to stimulate the Polish economy. But it's like if you say there's more, something's better, you'd always want more and even better. And at the time, probably equal to a month ago, there was information about additional funding for the construction of the road, so-called. The very important road that connects the highway with New Sącz, further with Slovakia and further with the south of Europe, of course, the question came up instantly instead of joy: Okay, they are building there, but what about the Gorlices? And that's the Gorlice I wanted to ask you in a few words. Firstly, I would like to ask you about the tender that has already taken place for the development of a comprehensive project documentation for the task: Expansion of the national road no. 28 on the section in Gorlice with obtaining administrative decisions and the exercise of copyright supervision, and a further possible date for the next stages of this task, i.e. the proverbial turbine roundabout in Profession in Gorlice. But I would also like to ask in the context of the answer I received in February to my interpellation on investment, the extension of the national road No. 28 on the section Nowy Sącz - Oil and the extension of the national road on the section of Ropa - the borders of the Lesser Poland voivodship. I would like to ask about the progress of this work in these tasks, but also about the details (The Bell) of the scope of the planned work. Are the seat belts planned to be released on the ramps under the slopes? And whether the General Directorate of Roads and Motorways in Krakow uses plans developed by local authorities, among others. A plan to build a sidewalk in Rop and build a roundabout in Rop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u130	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In my previous speech, I focused mainly on new investments, on the construction of new sections of high-speed roads. On the other hand, with this question from Mrs Barbara Bartus, there is a good opportunity to talk about our tasks, which are carried out on a network already existing, because this is also the lion's share of the investment that is being carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure, and more specifically, by 16 branches of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. As regards the national road No 28 in the Małopolskie section, as the Member mentioned, on 6 May a tender was launched for the execution of documentation for the extension of this road on the section in Gorlice. At the moment we have current information that 7 offers have been received, 3 of them are in the value of the estimate, they are being analysed. In August of this year, i.e. in the next few days, there will be a contract with the contractor and further stages of the task, such as obtaining permits and tendering for works, were planned to take place in the following years in this 4-, 5-year perspective. So that in August this year the agreement will be signed, which will prepare a technical and environmental study for section 28 of the road in Gorlice. We estimate that the value of this task will be PLN 73 million. So much is planned in the investment programme for this task. In the case of the extension of the national road on the section Nowy Sącz - Ropa and Ropa - the border of the Małopolska voivodship, the Minister of Infrastructure at the turn of the previous and this year agreed on investment programmes, so these tasks were also addressed to the implementation. Currently they are at the stage of preparation for the announcement of tenders for the execution of documentation. So that they will be progressing in the summer of this year. As far as the scope of development is concerned, they are comprehensive. This means that on a total of almost 50 km of the national road no. 28 from Nowy Sącz by Grybów, Ropa, Szymbark, Gorlice up to the border of the province with Podkarpacie, apart from raising the surface load capacity to 11.5 t and adapting to the applicable technical parameters we also plan to perform reconstruction of intersections, reconstruction of bridges, reconstruction of road culverts, construction and reconstruction of walkways and walking-bike paths, construction of bus bays, construction of overpasses, reconstruction of exits, execution of technological channels and stabilization of landslides. In particular, it is planned to build the necessary overtaking belts, rebuild the crossing of the national road with the provincial roads in Gorlice into a two-pass turbine roundabout and make a sidewalk in Ropa. The optimal scope of the investment shall be developed individually for the specific section of the road and in accordance with the results of the analysis of the state and safety of the infrastructure. Elements such as seat belts for ascension, which you have asked for, can be implemented at the stage of drawing up the documentation. In the area of Gorlice and Grybowa after examination, among others. traffic intensity, accidents, links with roads of other categories, but also for national road networks, it was decided that the optimal solution for the coming years would be the comprehensive extension of existing sections without changing the course. So that, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, these investments will be implemented over the next few years. The programme for the extension of the national road No 28 in Gorlice, as I said, was estimated at PLN 73 million, and the investment programme consisting in rebuilding this road on the section Nowy Sącz - Ropa is almost PLN 200 million, exactly PLN 195 million, and the investment programme from Ropa to the border of the voivodship - PLN 128 million. So that these are the measurable funds that will be implemented, you can say that they are already being implemented, in order to improve road safety on the national road no. 28 in the eastern part of the Lesser Poland voivodship. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u132	Thank you very much. I'm asking you for an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u133	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Thank you very much for this reply, but I would also like to ask you about the new investments that you have told the Minister about. And I'd like to ask again in the context of what I said, that if something succeeds, then why not more. So thank you very much for the fact that Limanowa or the Cellar are in the 100 ring road construction program, but my question is: Will Gorlice be in this program even though we're remodeling here? Shouldn't this reconstruction be to a lesser extent and Gorlice need a big ring road? And the Grybians, who drive through the market itself. Finally, I would like to appeal and ask the Minister. This is not related to this question, but to my territory, exactly the Oil that has already been mentioned here several times. It's about the Self-Government Road Fund and the county road that runs to Wysowa from Oil. There was such a sad situation (the bell) that the county asked for money, received this money, but did not sign the contract. It's just that the money was put somewhere else, and I know it. But now is there a chance to restore this path? Because this is a very important road and the reconstruction has already begun. I leave an appeal, a request to restore this path with funding from the Self-Government Road Fund for this year, because the old age is ready for the tender at this point in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u134	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The 100 bypass program - before there was too little time to be said about it - is also being implemented. We have already signed more than 70 investment programmes, and the signing of the investment programme is no less than such a real decision to carry out a given task, about the real start of a given investment. So that out of the 100 bypasses that we will implement under this programme, we already have more than 70 programmes agreed and signed. The construction of the Gorlic ring road is included in Annex 2. [[Applause]] Annex 2 shows the reserve list in all regions of our country. The reserve list will be implemented when post-trade savings occur in the framework of those projects that are on the basic list. We are currently seeing a slight slowdown in the prices of large, several hundred million investments. If this trend continues over the coming years, I am convinced that many tasks from this reserve list will be carried out and we will meet these expectations, very high social expectations both in Małopolska and in Mazowsze, in the voivodships: Silesian, Świętokrzyskie, Podkarpackie, in all regions. On the other hand, going back to Route 28, as part of the program of 100 bypasses on the basic list there are other bypasses: Limanowa, Makowa Podhalańskie, Wadowice and, already in Podkarpacie, Piast Place. So that we see this road line on the east-west line in the south of our country as a strategic and we do everything we can to irritate it and eliminate its narrow throats. Asking about the Self-Government Road Fund. This issue, which you have raised, is analysed from the legal point of view. I cannot now say how this issue will be resolved, but we will examine it very thoroughly and see what we - but also the Lesser Poland Voivode - can do. We will see what the law on the Roads Fund obliges us to do and how this problem can be resolved. It must be admitted that this is where the county acted too hastily, not at first signing this agreement, because if it did, this investment would have been carried out without any obstacles. These measures, as you said, have been addressed to other tasks on the reserve list of the Self-Government Road Fund. We will see how this list, and the county and communal, will be consumed, how many of these savings will appear in other tenders. We have reports from all voivodships that these savings really are [[♪ The bell ♪]] - sometimes it's savings of up to 30% - so that further tasks on the reserve list enter and are financed. We'll see what we can do in this case. We're gonna be operating under the Self-Government Road Fund Act here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I would very, very much like to thank you on behalf of the people.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u136	Minister, congratulations. We thank you for your thanks. But the Minister will be able to say a few more words about the construction of the Via Carpatia road in a moment, because on this matter, Members Jerzy Paul, Adam Sněžek and Piotr Uruski, representatives of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will ask you a question. The question will concern the construction of the Via Carpatia road, in particular the section through our country, i.e. S19 Road. Mr Sněžkou, I am speaking to Mr Adam Sněžkou, the microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask questions about a matter that not only interests my constituents, but also a large part of the people of the European Union. It is about Via Carpatia, which is to cross Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria and Greece, as a transport route along the eastern border of the European Community. I would therefore like to ask the Minister about the section that runs through our country, which is the S19 road. How did the epidemiological risk situation associated with COVID-19 affect the course of the investment and were there episodes on which the work was stopped? For how many sections are contracts signed for implementation, and for how many tenders are tendered? Is the expected completion date of this extremely important investment not at stake? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u138	Thank you very much. We invite the Minister. I think the coronavirus situation didn't affect the construction of this road.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few minutes ago, Mr. Marshal said that he wanted to leave and go to Poland. Minister, if I'm listening to you, I think I'm gonna quit this job here and come see you at the department. It's a resort of happiness. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: You can, for a moment, and we advise, drop all this and come to Bieszczady, our beautiful Polish Bieszczady, because it is Bieszczady that will communicate with the other regions of our country the expressway S19, or Via Carpatia. Now I'm checking for navigation. Travel from Warsaw to Ustrzyk is at the moment 6 hours 20 minutes, while after building Via Carpatia, especially those sections between Lublin and the border with Slovakia, I think that this trip will shorten, with free driving according to the law, to 4 hours. So that's the dimension of this investment that's being made. Ladies and gentlemen! It should be stressed that it is being implemented precisely through a consistent policy of law and justice, a policy that has been implemented for many, many years. The initiator of the idea of building Via Carpatia as a trail of international importance was the dead. President of Poland Prof. Lech Kaczyński. I remind you of 2006 and the meeting in Łańcut with representatives of Lithuania, Slovakia and Hungary. Then four countries expressed an interest in the construction of this route. At the moment - after the proceedings, as I said, mainly the politicians of Law and Justice, including those related to the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, Mr Tomasz Poręba, Mr Marshal Marek Kuchciński, but also after the acquisition of power in 2015, after ensuring the financing of the construction of this road, because this, I remind you, the decision of the government still made by Prime Minister Beata Szydło from 2017 provided funding for Via Carpatia - this way is already interested in 12 countries, from Lithuania through Poland, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria, Greece, but also countries such as Croatia, Serbia, Montenegro, i.e. Balkan countries. And I'm very happy, really, Mr. Marshal, that we are here to carry out this project. I will answer your specific question in writing. I can say so in general that S19 episodes in the Podkarpackie Voivodeship north of Rzeszow are six stages of implementation. They're all in the groundwork phase. 2021 - in accordance with the timetable for the submission of four of them. 2022, the beginning of 2022 - two more. Regarding the sections south of Rzeszow, a contract of PLN 2200 million was signed a few days ago for the section of Rzeszów South - Babica. During the preparation of tender processes there are further sections. So that these tenders will be announced, the contracts will be signed, the investment will be carried out, and in this area of Podkarpackie voivodship it really requires high efficiency of builders. There will be very long tunnels. Suffice to say that we estimate that the section between Rzeszow and Barwinek, which is about 90 km long, will cost Poland PLN 11 billion. That's cost estimates. But we don't spare money to build Via Carpatia. We consider this path to be strategic not only for regions such as Podkarpacie, Lubelszczyzna or Podlasie, but it is really an international route and the funds for this route had to be found and were found in 2017 and in the last revision of the national road construction programme and the next increase of the limit, seeing the post-trade situation, also for this southern section, but also for the section between Lublin and Białystok we have allocated another million zlotys, in principle billions of zlotys, so that we will not miss this financial investment. Thank you very much for the question, sir. Once again, I thank all those who have cared for Via Carpatia to be on the international agenda. I would like to thank those who later, having the decision-making capacity, made decisions on financial security, because this is how we can now make this way (the bell). We are convinced that it will serve not only the communication development but also the economic development of the whole country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u140	Thank you, Minister. Mr President, I mean, it's okay. Will there be another question? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u141	One more question. Minister, can we believe that the deadline for the implementation of section S19 of Rzeszów - Barwinek, in the years 2025 to 2026, is not at risk?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u142	I think so, but we'll listen in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At this point in time, with full responsibility, I can say that the terms 2025 and 2026 are not in danger. As I said, a few days ago a contract was signed for one of the five stages of implementation. The tender procedures are now being prepared for the next four stages of implementation. So that we are over 5 years old, 6 years old to build Via Carpatia between Rzeszow and the border with Slovakia. As I said before, these are very difficult sections from the engineering and engineering side. The tunnels that will run under the mountains, under the areas of the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, require really very high precision and very high experience, but we are convinced that the construction industry will manage these issues. Politicians have done their part. Politicians found funding, politicians guaranteed funding, and now it's all in the hands of the builders. We are convinced that the builders will be able to handle this issue. And I was talking earlier about the fact that Law and Justice politicians are not only interested in Via Carpatia, but also made tangible efforts to achieve this path. An example of this discussion is also significant. There is an interest of Members of the Law and Justice, while Members of the Civic Coalition opposed, said directly and still say, "Why are you building this road? There are more important things to do. That's very clear. We're going to build Via Carpatia. We hope that all the schedules, all the deadlines that are now set, will be respected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for coming. Thank you for answering my questions. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Goodbye. Marek Polak and Krzysztof Tchórzewski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice wanted to ask a question about the effects of introducing an anti-crisis shield for small and large enterprises. This question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Marek Niebóżak. Please, Mr Marek Polak, who is about to show up. Oh, there it is. Welcome back, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u145	Welcome. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Seym! According to the information provided by the Ministry of Development, the first days of the Coronavirus pandemic caused a wave of company suspension and closure and there was an intention to significantly reduce employment. This situation has only begun to stabilise with the introduction of the various stages of the crisis shield offering various support from the State to businesses. According to Central Register and Information on Economic Activity, in March this year. Nearly 49 thousand have suspended their activities. companies, and in April almost 24 thousand, i.e. 50% less. And I would like to ask how the mechanisms introduced under the anti-crisis shield affect stopping the worrying phenomenon of company suspension and liquidation and whether thanks to the support provided, the reduction in employment in Polish workplaces has been reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u146	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I would like to start by saying that the number of applications for suspension and termination of business as at 13 July was 8,3 thousand. And that was a 12% number. lower than the same period in the previous month and by 53% less than a year ago. Moreover, when we look at the number of entities, the number of entrepreneurs registered in CEIDG, in the central register, today we have more registered than before the pandemic, i.e. we observe at the level of central records, on the one hand, the decreasing number of applications for suspension and termination of business, it falls, the number of these applications is falling, and on the other hand, we have more entrepreneurs active in CEIDG, more than before the pandemic. That, of course, is a very good signal. This shows that gradually the Polish economy freezes, returns to activity, returns to life. And this shows that, in principle, this direction of defrosting the economy, at least from this perspective, from an economic perspective, is as valid and justified as possible. It should be borne in mind that here the issue of epidemiological, sanitary matters, which are decisive, should be decisive, is very important. And we do not rule out that sometimes in the interest of protecting Poland from pandemics it is necessary to treat defrosting in such a careful way, but, as I say, with regard to the level, the number of active entrepreneurs in CEIDG, we see that they are already more active today than before the epidemic, and more and less wants to suspend activity or delete themselves from the register. And now, are these positive figures somehow linked to State aid? I'm going to say this, and it was lucky, although I also have the material prepared, that today I even came across in the press on the material, which, I think, fits perfectly into this question, and that's why I'm going to let myself use it. I'm sending everyone back to today's Business Pulse. There's an article on data from the factoring industry, which deals with the marketing of invoices. And here the representatives of this industry are clearly saying that we have a positive phenomenon in the form of a lack of payment congestion. We see some delays in payments, but their scale was small. And we're seeing some cash supplies from businessmen. Here I quote the article and quote the representatives of this industry: cash stocks from the transfer from PFR transferred under the financial shield. On the other hand, unlike the years 2008 and 2009, when the Polish economy was also facing a major crisis, when banks stopped market financing overnight and consequently there was a liquidity crisis, this time the banking sector did not cut anyone off from the loan. And here, for example, note the activity of BGK, the de minimis guarantees, but also such regulatory elements, because, for example, in the first law, which we call a shield, there were also regulations that, let's say, encouraged banks not to cut off entrepreneurs from working credit. So these data, which industry representatives present here in today's Pulse of the Day, clearly show the relationship between the shielding activities undertaken within the framework of the crisis shield, the financial shield, those actions which the government has undertaken, or the broadly understood government, and the financial situation, the liquidity situation of entrepreneurs. After all, the liquidity situation is what directly translates into whether an entrepreneur, I don't know, makes an application for bankruptcy in an extreme case or, as here in the question, wants to suspend business activity or to give it up at all, requesting that it be removed from the register. In summary, we see data in CEIDG, from which we draw positive conclusions: entrepreneurs are more than before the crisis, and as the representatives of industries dealing with, let's say, broadly understood finances themselves, this is directly dependent on the right approach, the proper response of the government to the crisis in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u148	Thank you very much. Additional question, Mr Marek Polak. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u149	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! Up to 28% of pandemics and related problems are emerging companies simply declared that in order to survive, they must absolutely reduce employment. Please tell us whether the measures introduced under the crisis shield have reduced this interest and whether there are many companies that, despite the State aid offered, will not cope with the consequences of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u150	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! I also remember well that at such, say, the hardest moments, i.e. In March, in April, we were all very worried about the level of unemployment. In the most pessimistic scenarios there were even such forecasts, it was said that by the end of the year the number of unemployed would increase by up to 3 million. Meanwhile, since February this year. The number of registered unemployed has increased by 107 000. zł, about 107 thousand. persons. This is information that seems important to me. I have the impression that sometimes some people have been given completely shot-out data as to the extent that unemployment in Poland has increased. There were 107,000 registered. new unemployed. This means that June's GUS data indicates unemployment of 6.1%. I also realize, quite honestly speaking, that by the end of the year this number may increase even more, so that it is not so that there will certainly be no higher unemployment in Poland. Today, however, there is no indication that it will increase dramatically. Millions of Polish employees, or to say a little less, that so to speak, personally, millions of jobs are covered by the aid offered or under the so-called. economic downtime, or as part of the aid to which entrepreneurs or employers have access because they have reduced turnover, whether within the financial shield, the funds that entrepreneurs could obtain through PFR, the network of commercial banks. We are talking about millions of jobs, millions of employees whose jobs are co-financed by public funds and thus employers can maintain these jobs and their production capacity. And what is particularly important, looking from my perspective, from the perspective of the Deputy Minister who deals with economic affairs: at the time of the improved economic situation, these companies will save their potential, their employees, their capacities and will be able to return to competition either in the country or abroad, maintaining production capacity, maintaining the potential of the Polish economy. It seems to me that there is no doubt that this is the result of a large amount of aid intended to finance jobs or such a financial injection in the framework of the financial shield received by Polish entrepreneurs. Unemployment in Poland is currently at 6.1%. This is, I think, a really good result, especially when compared to data from other countries. Although, of course, for every person (the bell) who has lost their jobs, it is an individual misfortune, but also for those persons the government does not forget, because I remind you that we also have solutions for such people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u152	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes this item on the agenda, but before we move on to point 18, we need to announce a recess because there is no applicant. He'll be here in two minutes because we didn't know when the debate would start. We all didn't know what time the debate started, although of course the information was because everyone else is. Marshal, we'll see if everyone else is here in two minutes. But I'm not going into polemics with you. There's an applicant. There's an applicant. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the involvement of state institutions in the electoral process during the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland, including the organisation of elections by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the use of the RCB alert sent before the second round of elections and the involvement of public media, which was presented by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative and Greens, will be discussed at this meeting. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, representatives of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Boris Budka's applicants. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u153	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This point, considered in the slightly empty bench of the Council of Ministers, is very important if we look at how these elections were organised, how unfairly. Ladies and gentlemen, you have used your state apparatus to make sure that the elections are not equal and not universal. You have committed many abuses, which in our view may have affected the outcome of the election, and we will briefly prove what these issues were. From the very beginning - first of all, you have adopted changes in the electoral law in a manner incompatible with the Polish constitution. Secondly, you have set unequal financial limits for candidates, which clearly reflected the way in which the campaign was conducted. But things have become much more serious. You have excluded tens of thousands of people from the electoral process from your failure and improper operation of the state apparatus, in particular those who could not vote abroad. In addition, you cheated public opinion, for example, against people who live in Ireland. You said you couldn't personally pick up election packages. However, as a result of the delays, hundreds of thousands did not vote in these elections. Why were these elections dishonest? The entire state apparatus was illegally involved in the promotion of one candidate - currently President-in-Office Andrzej Duda. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, instead of dealing with the management of the country, instead of organizing the work of the Council of Ministers, dealt with the rallies of Andrzej Duda. Plus, he was giving out checks because I'm gonna remind you that that circus you guys had all over the country didn't have legal grounds. You were giving away money that wasn't in the budget, and there was no legal basis at all, because the bill wasn't adopted. You've engaged a state-owned camera, voivodship offices. The websites of the voivodship offices were full of information about the presidential candidate, which was not related to the exercise of the mandate of the President of the Republic. Finally, an absolutely unacceptable thing - you illegally used the RCB system, which is to warn people of dangers, you used it for electoral propaganda, unfortunately, in an illegal manner. And another unacceptable thing - probably each of the opposition party's candidates, each of the other committee's candidates suffered an incredible heirloom, manipulations and lies from the state media, to which you first allocated 2 billion PLN. This government is personally responsible for this, and the parliamentary majority is responsible personally, but also the President of the Republic. You have arranged a thing that previously was unprotectable in free Poland, namely all state propaganda was used to promote one candidate, help him, and on the other hand you have created a machine of hating and hating against other candidates without indicating the source of funding. You can't play fair. You've created a mechanism to ensure that you win another election. And today, this information is about to show. to the public that you are extremely dishonest people. You cannot fit into parliamentary democracy and democratic standards because you know that under normal conditions you would lose. And it's not like we're accusing you of forgery. In Russia, in non-democratic countries there are no forgeries, there is simply elimination of competitors. You guys aren't at the jail stage yet, just like in the so-called prisons. Eastern democracies, candidates so they couldn't run, but you've engaged the state apparatus to discredit the candidates. When we talk about all these irregularities, once again we want to stress: Elections were not equal and were not common, elections were unfair. And we are asking for elementary decency to show the public how the entire state apparatus was illegally involved on the side of one candidate - the President-in-Office. You lied, you lied, you lied. And unfortunately, that's the motto of the current power. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u154	Thank you very much. I will ask you in order to reply: Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, then Secretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Paweł Chiefernacker and then Secretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage of Mr Paweł Lewandowski. I remind you kindly and politely that you have five minutes in total. I invite Mr. Piotr Wawrzyk. This is ridiculous. They've made up their own minds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I congratulate the President on his speech. You can see he was talking about the subject. Thank you very much. You obviously spoke as someone who knows what a bad election is. [[Applause]] And that's what you did in 2015. And that's what you did in 2015 abroad. Look how many people were in the election at the time, and how many were in the election... What a guy. ...how you were able to encourage Poles to take part in the 2015 elections that took part 1/3 of those who participated this year. Are you serious? We were the ones who were able to organize the election so that there was not only a dozen percent higher attendance than how you organized... And I thought they were people... ...but also a higher number of those who participated in these elections. You called out, for example, to Ireland. I'll tell you what happened in Ireland. 29,000. packages, of which 510 packages returned to committee - 510. 178 were the undelivered ones. So where are the hundreds of thousands that have been deprived of the right to participate in the election? What's the point of lying? And why did that happen? That was the situation you told me about. One of the representatives of the State of the candidate addressed one of the ministries of the Irish Government, why it is not possible to take part by personal vote, inserting envelopes with electoral packages into the box. And this, you can say, is a legitimate road, only that he turned to the Ministry for Children, which has little to do with the consent given to third countries, such as Poland, to organize elections in this country. We have turned three times in Ireland to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is a partner in this area, and three times we have received notes stating that personal contact is not possible due to a large number of registered persons, I draw attention to, 30,000. Imagine the state in the regime that operates there, that that day comes 5,000. People to put the package in the urns, in the boxes. Just like in Zamość. This will be the situation with the so-called. The deadly envelopes you were talking about, refusing to allow the election on May 10th. That's when these deadly envelopes would be, if you did what you wanted, in Ireland, and in other countries too. To sum up, these elections, which were in two rounds: 28 June and 12 July, involved more than half a million Poles, it is about participating in these elections. The committees together with the committee's supporters in these elections have worked for almost a month nonstop. There have been cases of people fainting from overwork, doctors being called, people being restored to consciousness. I know this may be funny to you, sir, but unfortunately it was. No, it's pathetic. I know, I understand that monthly work is pathetic for you all day long. I get it. You screwed up the organization. That's what you might think. For me, this is something to be proud of, though, that this election was so successful. [[Applause]] Two more ministers. That's 86% those who wanted to take part in the elections took part in these elections, that 86% It's a turnout. In your election five years earlier, that was 10%. less. The turnout was higher. There was no vacation. Now it's been a vacation. Was there a vacation then too? There was no vacation at the time, and your attendance was lower. Was it or wasn't it? You guys had a lower turnout, and there was no vacation. You're running out of time, and there wasn't a word about TVP. In conclusion, I can only thank all those voters who took part in those elections who voted despite the pandemic, even though they could be put at risk. And thank you very much to the representatives of the diplomatic service and consular service, volunteers who worked hard for a month to organise these elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u156	Thank you very much. I'd like to speak to Minister Paul Bosternaker. Internet specialist. Marshal, do we have a moment? You don't have a minute because you have 37 seconds. Bravo, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will try urgently to address one issue to which I have been authorised by the Council of Ministers: the RCB alert. The regulation of the Minister for Health amending the Regulation on the list of personal protective measures related to the eradication of the COVID epidemic for members of the Regional Election Commissions introduced provisions relevant to the epidemic threat. Thanks to this amendment a few days before the second round of elections, people from vulnerable groups (the bell) were given priority during the elections, among others. Seniors, pregnant women or people with disabilities. These rules entered into force a few days before the second round of elections. 2 days before the elections, the State Election Commission called in its communication to the authorities and public administration for the widest possible dissemination among voters of information on changes to the rules of service by the regional electoral committees. The RCB alert allows you to reach a wide range of customers quickly. In this respect, the PKW's call was used to disseminate information on the change of law. I would like to point out at the moment that the RCB alert has been used several times to notify citizens of new rules related to the risk of coronavirus. Texts concerning e.g. The introduction of an obligation to cover the nose, mouth or to lift further restrictions resulting from the amendment of the Council of Ministers regulations was sent several times in March and April of this year. There was even a text message that told us about the opening of forests and parks. Minister, I'm afraid I have to thank you. It's not enough that you're not talking about it, you're out of time. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Paweł Chezernaker: One sentence. Do you mind if I conclude? I would just like to say that Mr President said that the alert was used for electoral propaganda. I would completely disagree with that, Mr President. There was information in the alert about a change in the law related to the epidemic situation. That's one thing. There was nothing there to mark what you're talking about. I would like to conclude by quoting Mr Wojciech Hermelinski's former head of the PKW, who, when asked by Onet for the decision of the RCB, answered: I would not question this regulation from a legal point of view. So there was no propaganda here you were talking about, and the former head of the PKW said he wouldn't question it because of the legal basis. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u158	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will take the floor in the discussion. Two minutes. Mr. Marshal, I don't think there's a limit because it's time for the club together.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The election campaign is over. We have the president. The opposition has lost this election, but the dust of the campaign hasn't gone down yet, and it can't accept the loss. He's still in post-election shock. The changed candidate of the Civic Coalition, and so we would like to say, the Polish honesty party, was the President of Warsaw barely 1,5 years earlier elected to this function. It's not about that. Instead of dealing with the affairs of the capital and its inhabitants, he left everything behind and went to Poland to campaign. In the meantime, what about Warsaw? I'm just gonna mention the city bus accidents. June 25 - a tragic accident on the Grot-Rowecki Bridge. 22 injured, one dead. A drug-addicted driver. July 7th - another accident. The bus is pulling off the road and ramming cars in the Bielans. A drug-addicted driver. The driver wasn't under the influence. It's a lie found by the police and the D.A.'s office. July 11th - another accident. Therefore, I have a question: Under whose supervision is urban transport in Warsaw? Who decided that the bus services are performed by the German company Arriva? Lech Kaczyński. Will the half-time president wake up and take care of what's rightfully his? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u160	Thank you very much. I cordially invite Mr Boris Budka, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Mr. Marshal, no. Sir, the list of people waiting to speak has been established. You signed up in that order. It's not like I'm pissing anybody off. I think you're unnecessarily malicious with us. I cordially invite Mr Boris Budka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we've had a demonstration of the level of what you've been presenting for five years. Instead of substantive arguments, constant propaganda. Mr President, you're talking about yourself, not us. I understand that the Member may be upset by the fact that he is asleep. Lech Kaczyński, your president, signed a deal with a German company, and now you don't like it. [[Applause]] But you have to decide when these Germans are cool, or when - just like yesterday - Minister Błaszczak meets with the Minister of National Defence, the head of the notabene of the sister party of the Civic Platform, the CDU, and when you attack these Germans. But this is your level. Instead of talking about merology, you're lying. You lie in the morning, you lie at noon, and you can lie at noon. Platform, don't lie to me. And you used so-called media. public. You gave them 2 billion zlotys. Mr. President promised me he'd throw Kurski out. Kurski's fine. Notabene comes to Marshal Terletki yesterday with a private visit, I don't know, to discuss the success of this election campaign. And you leave here with buses in Warsaw. This shows the state of your mind. You have absolutely learned nothing. You can't say, "I'm sorry, we won unfairly because once we don't want to give up our power." But Poles need a clear explanation. You've created a system to guarantee this media envelopment over your lies. You couldn't have had an honest, honest discussion about Poland. You replaced it with Kurski's TV and 2 billion zlotys that you took from your citizens. You took money that could go to health care and went to propaganda. And today the word "sorry." If the Minister is happy with his high turnout... Do you know why this turnout abroad was high? Because they've just had enough of you there and they've come to vote against you. And you did everything you could to keep those people from voting. And that's your great shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u162	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The parliamentary club of the Left, regardless of who won the elections, who lost them, is in the debate on the very course of the elections, first of all interested in whether each Polish woman and every Pole were treated subjectively and had a chance to cast their vote. I'll address two points. The first issue concerns the DPS vote. There are media reports showing that in some DPS 100% people voted for one candidate. I checked. It's not that it was common and in all DPS, but in many DPS it was. And I'd like to ask you to check the surveillance route to see if these DPS patients were treated in question, manipulated, or simply manipulated. The second point concerns voting abroad. On the basis of the reading of what the Polish consulates themselves wrote abroad, there is no basis for resenting the work of these consulates, as the Minister said, because it seems, after examining what the consulates themselves have published on their websites, that they have made every effort to print out and send out in the second round of packages, voting cards patterns as soon as possible - 24 hours. However, we read on the pages of the consulates themselves that our compatriots were concerned that they would not be able to send these cards back and organized themselves in different ways to do so, and, as today, we read that, for example. In England, about 180 thousand. 30,000 packages did not return. In this connection, I have a question: How many complaints are there regarding the inability to vote, and what is the government going to do for the future? 'Cause there's obviously something... [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm just finishing up. It didn't work. It seems that it should simply be possible to vote electronically in this situation, that this system, which was in force between the first and the second round, is too archaic for the present time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. We'll try to connect. Okay, the connection didn't work. We will therefore ask Mr Sławomir Nitras from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u165	Thank you, Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm even glad it was Mr. Chiefernaker on behalf of the government here, because I remember his role in 2015. In 2015 he was the creator of a party hat camera, which was first used in Polish politics. Today, with these elections, after five years, it is not surprising that the whole state has been involved. Look who's talking. That's what the OSCE report says. The OSCE report says, Mr. Chiefernaker, that you have caused the borders between the state and the party to be blurred, which has created an unjustified advantage for the president seeking re-election. This is your disgrace. Zachodniopomorskie Urząd Wojewódzkie w Szczecin: Andrzej Duda is the best choice for Poland. How can you do that? The OSCE report puts us in exactly the same line as Mr. and Mrs. Putin, because that's exactly where you're going, and that's what you're doing. By election day, you can't get attached - everyone can come and vote - but the whole country has been tied up to win Mr. Duda. Or just voivodship offices? We're gonna talk a lot about the role of TV. Poczta Polska, PKP, leaflets on trains - this never happened. You're acting like a Bolshevik. So PKP can hand out flyers for one candidate? This is a disgrace. You went as far as you had to go to win this election. If someone doesn't set up a dam, you'll go a step further in the next election if you have to. One of your protectors, Mr. Brudziński, said, and I agree with him that Duda won the election thanks to Kaczyński. That's the truth. You know why? Because it was Kaczyński who insisted that Jacek Kurski was to be the head of television, and without television you would never win those elections. Insolent Kurski comes to the Sejm and says that the time devoted to Trzaskowski was the same as the time devoted to Duda. Yeah, except Duda looked like Kim Ir Sen because you made us North Korea, and you called Trzaskowski a traitor. This is a disgrace. [[Applause]] Exactly. A candidate of 10 million people voted for, government television calls a traitor, says he's going to sell Poland. This is a disgrace. You are liars (the bell), and at the head of this camera you put a young, inexperienced man who can only lie. This is not a democratic election and this is not a free election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u166	Thank you very much, sir. Excuse me, Mr Tomaszewski. We'll ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk, because she just flew in. How? Where'd she come from? From where she wanted to broadcast. Unfortunately, my announcement was not true. The waves have disturbed Mrs Barbara Dziuk's speech. Third time's a charm. But Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski is with us. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have been privileged since 1990 to participate in all presidential elections, being on the side of one of the candidates, and since 1991 - personally in all parliamentary elections. Indeed, there has never been such involvement of the government, the structures of the state, the voivodships in the election campaign. But you've moved on. You used uniforms in your campaign, which is already unforgivable. The chiefs of service, the State Fire Department, rode with promenades, organized side meetings with firemen, handing them these promenades for fire cars, as if it could not be done in a civilized manner. That's what? This is, of course, the next step. Action of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland without legal basis, creation of public-law promises in the form of cartons for local governments. What would happen if the president was handing out boxes like this to his local government? There'd be a D.A., there'd be a RIO, there'd be other things. [[Applause]] Cool. And you have no scruples. And the other area. Those who follow the law pay a radio-television subscription, they ask: What right has one formation taken over public television and campaigned for one candidate? The answer is that it was private television that did it differently. Only private TVs do not live from subscription and 2 billion PLN from the state budget. They live on commercials. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you continue to do so with public television, let's not be surprised that you will not be willing to pay your subscription. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. All right. Technical services might be able to handle the situation. These connections are organized like elections abroad. It's like the consulates. We invite you, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Elections are a holiday. A celebration of democracy, a celebration that we enjoy, or actually we have enjoyed, since so recently, since 1989, since the first almost free elections. This holiday is ruined, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS. You ruined it in an unworthy and disgusting way, because these choices were neither fair nor equal. What succeeded was the great stir of citizens and citizens, that despite the séances of contempt and hatred on TVP, despite the leaflets distributed by the Polish Post, they went to the elections. I wanted to thank all those who had not been deceived and had the courage to guard these elections as husbands and wives of trust. [[Applause]] They had the courage to look at your hands despite the intimidation. They had the courage... Calm down, Mr. Messengers. Aren't you ashamed? We are not ashamed that there is a Polish government. Aren't you ashamed that it's your government that's doing such a bad thing, that's TVP's sting? Are you not ashamed that for a few months we watched a campaign of hatred, excluding not only Rafał Trzaskowski, but any person who dares to think differently? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Stop whining. Ministers and prime ministers, I'm not talking about politics, ministers and prime ministers. Prime Minister - 200 campaign meetings, President's Office - involved in the campaign. Were they on vacation? With BOR. Will we finally get the answer - because we did not get the answer - who financed 200 guitar meetings of Mateusz Morawiecki, who financed the guitar meetings at CSR? Jarosław Kaczyński said he would use all the resources. And you know what's most unworthy? That you used them all exactly. In social assistance homes and in establishments where sick people are located, often disabled - 100% attendance and 100% Andrzej Duda. It's just unworthy of action. That's disgusting. It's a few dozen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] such cases. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] A few dozen. And one more thing - the TSO. Shut up, don't shush. You used to put fire trucks where they weren't needed... You forgot about prisons and jails. ...only where you promised it in propaganda. And today, firefighters in an Eagle in Pomerania collect scrap metal to buy a fire truck because your Mateusz Morawiecki didn't get there because you were scared in Pomerania. Shame, country. You've taken the celebration of democracy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u170	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Civic Platform and Mr President, this information has been requested, it hurts, oh, it hurts to lose. And that noise on your side. [[Applause]] But, ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, I would like to thank all those who went to the elections, the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland, the most important elections, elections in which we elected the head of state for the next 5 years, and of course I would like to thank those who voted for Andrzej Duda and for the continuation of Poland+. It hurts - all the fire trucks that were handed out, because in your time it was Poland that did not have as many new fire cars as during the rule of law and justice. This year alone, my voivodeship will receive 52 new firefighters and two more as part of the action for the largest turnout. And no voivodship, Member, we weren't afraid. Regardless of which voivodeship, which municipality, who she voted for, if there was a high turnout, she gets a fire truck. And I'm very happy for you. There's just no comms. And if we are talking about lies and manipulations, ladies and gentlemen, and hatred, you can see this hatred even today when you are harassing the voters of Law and Justice and all those who voted for President Andrzej Duda, you are inventing them. It was you lying slanders that put the press, but also the TV, one medium in front of the other. Poles were not deceived and they know that it is thanks to the cooperation of the Polish government that they live better... And the lead party. ...in charge of Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki and [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thanks to President Andrzej Duda, whom I thank on this occasion also on behalf of the voters of my district. [[Applause]] Where's Jarosław?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u172	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to correct some of the information. The RCB's previous information concerned the life and health of Poles. However, the incriminated SMS sent by the RCB concerned only a change of way of entering the premises, it was nothing to do with the health and life of Poles, while the Crisis Management Act clearly states that these communications can only concern the situation of potential threats. It was a violation of the bill. And when I accused Minister Kaminski of this yesterday, saying that you bought the security of Poles during the presidential election, the Minister said that he had nothing to do with the RCB. It was simply misleading the High House because the Minister oversees, yes, he is subject to the Prime Minister. But there's something else I'd like to say. I would like to say that in these elections, the only institution that enjoys universal respect and sympathy and the trust of Poles that you created, the RCB alert, has been sacrificed to increase the chances of your own candidate. You can't stop yourself from destroying the state... How? ...even in those things you've done well for yourself. You are ready to lay down your own good work on the altar of pure politics. They voted for you, too, for your candidate. If we are talking about these scandalous issues today, then we are talking not because we are questioning the outcome of the elections, but because we are pointing out that these were unfair, unequal and non-universal choices. And we're doing this because we don't want any more of your forgeries, lies, and manipulations in the next election. That's not gonna work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u174	Thank you very much. We will apologize to Mrs Beata Arrow because we have joined Mr Mark Polak. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's speech is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u175	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In my statement, I would like to refer to the problem of using the Government Security Centre alert before the second round of elections, which I have raised to the rank of the problem. I think that during the current pandemic in order to minimise the risk of infection among children, pregnant women and older people, not only this alert, but also all other instruments and tools available to the general public should be used. Information about mandatory nasal clogging, as well as the sanitary rules in the electoral premises should reach every voter in my opinion in every way, because they can save human health and even life, which, as you know, is an overriding value. And I'm surprised someone can raise it to the rank of a problem, which, in my opinion, is absolutely ridiculous. I would like to ask the Minister whether there are laws restricting the application of such practices. If so, I think it needs to be revised as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u176	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Beata Arrow from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I must admit that Mrs Nowacka is right, because elections are indeed a celebration of democracy, but once again they have taken the form of games, a kind of plebiscite of candidates. He always wins the best. This time the election is also a marathon, a long marathon, but Andrzej Duda defeated the opponents in the relay. Because what else would you call campaigning and changing the candidate of the Civic Coalition during this campaign? It's hard to accept failure... You guys have changed, too. ...but are you looking for the guilty? You're looking for an excuse to lose this election. What's the solution? Failure always hurts. Poles today, this week, Sunday and 5 years ago made a choice in accordance with democratic principles. The winning elections are the commitment and hard work of each candidate, staff work, volunteers, but above all the election decision. In 2015 he was the candidate of the coalition ruling then, the President-in-Office of Komorowski despite the background of the state institution, and today the current candidate of the Coalition Rafał Trzaskowski lost the election just with Andrzej Duda. So make an assessment of the importance of state institutions throughout the election campaign process. Who decides to win? Voters. It's time to accept failure. I think the best possible commendation from the opposition at a time when you underestimate the organisation of elections during the COVID will be silence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I invite you, sir. And after you, we have a connection to Mrs. Barbara Dziuk. Therefore, Mr Paweł Rychlik will wait a moment. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This election wasn't fair. They certainly did not meet the standards of the democratic state. A few facts. The involvement of public television. Let me remind you, in February this year. Jacek Kurski about Andrzej Duda said this: If it weren't for TV, no one would know who this man is. Of course, the commitment of PLN 2 billion over these months has made Andrzej Duda the first choice for public television viewers. Much worse is the situation related to what you did to Rafał Trzaskowski. This party scumbag committed to grossing and disgusting Rafał Trzaskowski's candidacy is something that must be simply stigmatized. In a state of law, such a situation has no right to ever happen again. [[Applause]] You've engaged the entire state apparatus in favor of one candidate. Morning. Elections abroad. This is where you've done everything you can to disappoint where you can. System failure so voters don't get on the electoral list on the first day before the second round of elections. Or a discrediting example of a circuit to vote in Split. Was it so hard to predict that the Poles would be in Croatia on holiday? Couldn't you create a few voting circuits, a few committees? You had to get everyone together in one place? They didn't want those voices because Trzaskowski... But where it had to be done, you did it. The examples of bribes in the form of a fire truck were only directed to the municipalities to 20,000. residents. What, Poles living in other municipalities are worse? Why was there no instrument to encourage more attendance? The answer is simple when you look at the results of the vote. Another thing, plastic checks. They were handed over by all: Prime Ministers, Ministers, Voivodeships, Members of the PiS. Who picked up? A lot of councilmen. One of the Councillors of Krakow holds a check for 19 million PLN, which no one has seen and which has no legal basis. It's pure manipulation. You manipulated these elections, and that's why they were just dishonest. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What needs to be said about the elections that we have been through - these were elections in line with the letter of the law. And it's not like the previous speaker said these elections were unfair. It was not fair that the behaviour of the Civic Coalition, our opponents, not only insulted human dignity, but above all humiliated every person who advertised our current President of the Republic of Andrzej Duda. Nor can I agree with the fact that the work of offices, the sacrificial work of all employees is being undermined. Therefore, I would ask the Ministry, which coordinated the whole course of the electoral process, to provide information where there were any doubts where the applications were made. Anything can be said, but if a candidate wins in legitimate, legally planned elections, then he congratulates you with honor and apologizes for what was wrong. [[Applause]] Next case. [[Disruption of reception]] ...elections on May 10th. Why didn't these elections take place? Now there were no death envelopes. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yeah, laugh at everything. And then the whole of Poland was pounded that it could not be done in correspondence mode. For me, it is a scandal that the opposition did all the treatments so that democracy in Poland would not win. I'm telling you, democracy has won, elections have been held legally, according to the letter of the law, and if there were any doubts, please, there are institutions where it can be reported. A great respect for all employees, volunteers who... [[Disruption of reception]] Long live democratic Poland! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u182	Thank you for this appeal. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're after a very busy presidential campaign. All the candidates were driving around Poland, convincing citizens to be right. Also the President of Warsaw, Mr.Rafal Trzaskowski, traveled to nine voivodships, where, as a result of the failure and downtime of the incinerator, the sludges are stored. In many cases, the services have shown irregularities in the installations to which these settlements were imported. Warsaw could not cope with the disposal of its own settlements... One of them nearly drowned in one of those... ...whose consequence was among others. transport of these settlements in fields in other voivodships. The people of Warsaw paid for it. The thermal waste water treatment station built for almost PLN 1.5 billion did not function for 43 months after the launch. For this also the Warsaw people paid - over PLN 30 million. These settlements were found, among others. do Bogumiłowice w gminy Sulmierzyce, Disctrict Pajęczańskie, Łódź Voivodeship. In most of these places, the Environmental Protection Inspection reported a number of comments and irregularities, including: Salmonella and other bacteria, intestinal parasites eggs, were found in the sediment. Disenteria, typhus. Ladies and gentlemen! It may be said that the post-election dust has fallen, but, Mr Nitras, the mess has remained. You've made a mess of it. [[Applause]] I wanted to address the question to the Minister. What about the scavenging residue that is improperly stored in different places of the country? Thank you very much. You have one major advantage over me - you know my name.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u184	I didn't really understand that suggestion about the mess, but maybe... You're too good, Mr. Marshal. I don't want to be mean... Thank you for telling me that I am too polite, Mr Budka, my friend. I'll verify that. I'm back with my heart on my hand, Marshal. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, I cordially invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u185	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Trzaskowski's supporters destroy Poles - it is such an exemplary, nasty, curial belt, which appeared on the screen during the main edition of the News during the last hours of the campaign, another release, which, of course, was devoted entirely to the promotion of one of the candidates, i.e. the President-in-Office Andrzej Duda, and the disgustingness of the other candidate, i.e. the candidate of opposition Rafał Trzaskowski. You really can't do it any other way? 10 million Poles and Poles said that they had had enough in these elections. And they've had enough, among other things. that disgusting propaganda mush that pours out of public television every day. What did government officials do? What did the Minister of Culture and National Heritage do, who in some way supervises public media in order to ensure equal access to public media for candidates, which is enshrined in the Act on the Organisation of the Election Campaign? Nothing, because it's in your best interest because you're systematically using public media to keep power in your hands like a goebbelsian. 10 million Poles said they had enough of your propaganda mush, including more than 60% The youngest generation who doesn't watch public television. Your time is numbered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u186	Thank you very much for your vote. I kindly invite Mr Lech Kołakowski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There's no envoy. I therefore kindly invite Mr Artur Łącki from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. Connecting. Remotely? Remotely? But he didn't fly in. I therefore kindly invite Mr Maciej Górski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Oh, thank you. There you go. I'm trying to make you all as happy as possible. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u187	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'm talking about these boxes, as you call them from the Platform. I don't know if you're aware that your local government officials were involved. I've been to a few meetings like this. They were happy to accept. In the district of Siedlce it so happened that there were no cartons, oddly enough, a case, a nomen omen, for President Siedlce of Mr. Sitnik from the Civic Platform. So it's gone. There wasn't enough. On the other hand, President Siedlec approached the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister says that somehow it didn't work out, someone didn't see it. By accident. And Mr Sitnik's answer: your word is more than a carton. I think that's the best painting. Thank you. [[Applause]] See? Compare the Prime Minister to...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u188	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This excellent president of public television You, ladies and gentlemen, are getting more and more expensive. Before the municipal elections you issued public television 860 million PLN. Before the European and parliamentary elections, 1,200 million had to be paid out of taxpayers' money. The election studio and his boss, Mr. Chairman, cost money. But now, before the presidential election, Andrzej Duda had already cost the taxpayer 2 billion PLN. One billion was two hundred. It's not enough. Together, as you can count it, darlings, 4 billion zlotys of public money, apart from the electoral staff fund, went to the campaign of Law and Justice. You know, this 4 billion PLN could be converted into a very significant increase in oncology expenditure. I'd be happy to count it anyway. [[Applause]] But I'll tell you one more thing. If you didn't give that money to public television today, you'd give a travel voucher to every pensioner. And since it went to the polling studio under the title: government television, pensioners will not get a voucher. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u190	Thank you very much, Member. I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation today. There's my friend, your vice marshal. You're welcome. And thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u191	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! It wasn't an honest election. First of all, because, as has already been said, the border between the state and the party has been blurred. This must not be done in a democratic legal state. Constitution in a clear way in Article. 7 provides that public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law. I ask the question: What was the legal basis for this public performance of giving bribes, corruption towards local governments and residents of individual municipalities? What was the legal basis? I expect an answer tonight. Because either we've been dealing with corruption, or we're dealing with fraud. It's depending on whether these cardboard, so-called. checks, they'll cover it, or they won't cover it. It's either corruption or fraud. Did this reconnaissance of the head of government and ministers with checks after Poland result? He's done it. Where they were visited with cardboard, attendance increased, in some cases by 19%, in many cases by 10%. Did this situation affect the outcome of the election? Yeah, obviously. But that is something that the government must not do in a democratic legal state. And one more thing. ♪ In each ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] the case was a direct television transmission. And TV did not broadcast a single election rally of Rafał Trzaskowski. And that's a scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u192	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u193	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The election is over, and you can't lose. Remember five years ago, when Hillary Clinton lost in the United States, Trump won with electoral votes, and in fact Mr. Trump was 200,000. Votes less. But these aren't the United States. There's another electoral order, but I haven't heard it so far... I just had the pleasure of being in the United States at the time. When I went to bed, Hillary Clinton won. I woke up this morning with the electoral votes Trump won. I know that these results were being undermined, that the Russians were the ones who had an impact on Trump's winning. But Trump's in charge and he's got a lot of followers. And, ladies and gentlemen, welcome to the beautiful Podkarpath. That's where we had 90 percent votes for Duda, for our president. And ask: were those people who voted for President Andrzej Duda manipulated? Of course they were. No. They weren't manipulated, sir, certainly not. There live noble, good people who vote for wonderful people, great people. There are noble people all over Poland. And we are glad that President Andrzej Duda won, that Poland will be able to develop. It's no use screaming. I will just ask: Is it true that the election candidate for President of Mr Rafał Trzaskowski was not allowed to carry white and red flags? What kind of nonsense are you talking about? Was there a white and red flag? Was? You're the one who's been manipulated. I'm not manipulated. I saw, watched, and there wasn't one. I was surprised. And now I find out there was a ban. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't know why. Don't lie to me. I wish you all good health, above all health, health. [[Applause]] How did you get here? From Lubaczów.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u194	Thank you, Member. Mrs. Catherine... I'm asking you to calm down. And Catherine Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u195	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There's no greater shame in sports than winning when you're on cheering. Bravo! And what happened to President Duda, [[Applause]] It's like he's running for cheer. On coke. What we were dealing with was an organized manipulation industry. It started at every level. You say, someone here tells you what the meaning of the RCB SMS was. Very clear: there are two electoral groups in which it was known that the majority had Duda. One is citizens of 60+, the other is small cities. For some, there was a signal from the RCB that didn't talk about wearing masks and being safe, only to go to the election, because they'd be the first in line, and for others there were fire trucks at a time when there might not even be an TSO, just like in one of the towns. Don't insult the voters. Another thing - public television. Public television, one great industry of contempt that you applied to Rafał Trzaskowski. Let us remind you of the stripes: Trzaskowski against Catholics. Whose business does Trzaskowski represent? Trzaskowski will collect 200 billion from Poles. But there are also belts about Duda. Excuse me, that's Mrs. Holecka's question: What do you do to win? But it's $50,000. But there are also stripes about Duda: Duda promises a pro-Polish program. Crowds at meetings with President Duda. The best are the simplest data: all the towers of Andrzej Duda shown on public television, no rally of Rafał Trzaskowski. But I saw Trzaskowski's rally and so Duda parallel to TVP Info. What's more, Andrzej Duda's rallies were repeated so that if anyone hadn't seen it, they could have seen it again. That's another line. In what manner did Minister Ardanowski send to 1300 thousand. The people who are insured in KRUS, Andrzej Duda's letters outside the spending limit (the bell), which you still had three times the size? They're breaking... In addition to all the laws, by breaking the law, he sent to the people of the KRUS... Thank you. ...lists and Duda flyers. This is an example we had, manipulation. [[Applause]] The industry is organized by electoral manipulation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u196	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Listening to the Platform Members today... The Civic Coalition. ...I know and I am sure that the subject of this current information with a lying thesis is an attempt to cover the irregularities that took place in Warsaw, when the president of the city, the vice-president of the Platform, who wanted to be a partyless one, instead of dealing with Warsaw's problems, conducted his campaign. You clearly show that you don't respect democracy. You cannot accept the democratic decision of Poles. You boycotted the election on May 10th, blocked the execution of civic privilege and duty. You were scared of deadly envelopes so that after a few days, you'd be willing to collect signatures for a swapped candidate. I'm sorry. Tonight, once again, after another loss, you lie and scare again. So what I said wasn't true? Meanwhile, according to information from Polish Waters in June during the campaign in Warsaw municipal sewage was dumped to the Vistula. Here is a quote: The pollution was so much that it flew a green area belonging to the Natura 2000 area. This is information from the President of Polish Waters. Poles, including the inhabitants of the Vistula area, ask who was supervising what was happening in Warsaw when the president of the city handled his election campaign. Minister, will there be consequences for this? If so, what is it? Is that what the Poles are asking? And one more thing. Finally, start with the State and the Platform, and the Civic Coalition respect volunteer firefighters. 'Cause I can't help but say the words that came out here, 'cause I can't be the maid of honor supporting the CSR. Nearly 600 rescue cars will be transferred to CSR units throughout Poland this year, also in Pomerania. Why the election? Ask those friends who get the cars they need every year, and who they haven't seen, who couldn't wait for your government when, Platform, you were in charge. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're lying! Platform, don't lie! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u198	Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u199	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to reply to your message before it comes out that in the days of President Lech Kaczyński all the sewage went to the Vistula because there was no treatment plant at the time. [[Applause]] Since 2012, there is only a treatment plant. Since 1990. The kettle's being built. But now I'd like to get back to the subject of our current information. I wanted to see in person what it looks like to vote in correspondence abroad, where many signals come from our voters about irregularities, which is why I became a husband or rather a wife in the 93rd committee at the Berlin embassy. Mother and daughter... It's really very time-consuming work. 24 hours this committee sat, checked, counted these votes. I really don't want to think how many correspondence choices we would count in Poland. The election board members wouldn't leave the premises for a week. But first of all, I would like to ask you about the following irregularities. Why did people come to the embassy on election day to join the electoral census, but they didn't get the electoral package at all? Moreover, they could not personally return the electoral package to the embassy. There were situations where people organized themselves and organized some social couriers, just to somehow deliver these packages before this hour 21. In the committee where I watched the election, 20 packages were addressed to our committees, but the voters were in the committee next door, behind the wall, and the consul refused to transfer such packages. Who's gonna be responsible for this? Finally, how correspondence choices abroad can be regarded as equal if, by the unrealistic deadlines imposed by the State, voters had to pay often after EUR 15.20 per package to hope that this package would arrive in time. Is material status to decide who can take part in the election? In fact, I mention the first of the edges of irregularities, thinking about them and their scale, only a few hundred such complaints about elections abroad have come to me (the bell). It is hard not to resist the impression that you have done really everything to make it harder for Polonia to vote in correspondence elections. Why? Just look at the results abroad. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u200	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Górska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Or perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, we will ask how much money the capital city of Warsaw, the districts of the city have transferred to contracts, into the accounts of some Warsaw media to propaganda. The profitable contracts included such companies as: Agora SA, Poland Press, Polityka sp. o.o., AMS, Press-Service, Gremi Media. Isn't that corruption? No. Nevertheless, despite the millions of Polish citizens spent, the people of Warsaw lost the election. And it hurts you. But let the public know how much it costs, for example, for m.s. Warsaw. I'm sure we won't find out about this from the media. They may now have a direct motivation to defend Rafał Trzaskowski, to silence the uncomfortable topics for him: financing selected media and sowing propaganda with their help. This is very important because it is the local media that should account for the government. I am terrified to see that there is a small amount of media in Warsaw, which are not afraid to account for the poor activity and waste public money during the election campaign and not only Rafał Trzaskowski and his crew. It's a disgrace. Platform, don't lie to me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u202	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u203	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you of a few things about the involvement of public resources in Andrzej Duda's campaign. You remember the famous game on TikToku. The Ministry of Digitalization for the promotion of this game during quarantine spent several hundred thousand zlotys. Who was the face of this game during the election campaign? Andrzej Duda. Ladies and gentlemen! Second thing. You remember the solemn signing in Żyrardów at a meeting with seniors of the law concerning the so-called. Thirteenth pension. An academy in the form of an electoral convention? Who paid close to 150,000? Evil for this event? No, not Andrzej Duda's election committee. The Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy paid. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask you how it happened that in June, 23 June, the State Election Commission sends - here I have a photocopy - a letter to the President of Tarnów, in which Mr Marciniak writes to the President: It would be unreasonable and unacceptable for men of confidence and social and international observers to be present at the premises of the regional committees set up in medical and social assistance centres, in which committees were appointed at the reasoned request of the person managing this unit, only among the employees of the individual concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? We are looking at these results on the State Election Commission website. There are several hundred cases on the national scale, where in care and treatment facilities where people with intellectual disabilities are present, often without any contact, with very advanced dementia or dementia, is 100% attendance [[♪ The bell ♪]] and 100% Andrzej Duda's votes. Did Minister Szumowski speak to the PKW about the ban on international, social observers or men of confidence in this type of permanent residence? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u204	Thank you, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Czartoryski, Law and Justice. There isn't. There's no envoy. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u205	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! One of the most extreme examples of the use of state resources in the service of one candidate is what you did with one of the oldest Polish companies, with Polish Post. Let's remind, on 23 April, the Polish Post Office sends to local governments such an email in which it requests, asks, that the personal data of Poles and Poles be transmitted in order to organize this farce, which you planned for 10 May. Some local governments pass on this data, but it's not known which records, and it's not known how many records, because this information is a strictly guarded secret so far. We've been trying to find out since the end of April, but no one wants to answer us. During the audit at the Polish Post Office, we are able to establish that this email is sent at the personal order of Prime Minister Morawiecki, that many local governments responded to this email and sent this data, moreover, that many local governments sent this data in the form of open, normal email files, without encryption, without password. Every sensitive data security specialist gets an oak on his head when he hears something like that. And now my questions. How did you use this data? Who saw them? Who processed them? How was this data used by the Polish Post Office? You should have checked in with the personal data inspector. Is there a correlation between providing you with this data and those scandalous and slanderous leaflets that went into the boxes of Poles and Poles during the election campaign and which, mixing with the mud of one candidate, praised the heavens of another? There even the image of the best person I know, Marshal Kidawa-Błońska, was shown in negative light. I was ashamed to talk to Mr Thomas Boserup, the head of the OSCE mission in Poland, who asked me if my country's resources were being used to support one candidate. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But he's a personal data inspector, you should have reported him. You can accept the electoral failure, but the electoral failure that you have suffered in equal confrontation, and you have cheated at every stage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u206	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u207	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The platform, like in 2015, cannot accept the fact that within 5 years the President gained the trust of Poles and Poles and, therefore, the Poles again elected the President to this honorable position. You people talk so much about the truth, about someone lying. Ladies and gentlemen, this campaign was filled with lies from your side. Antoni Macierewicz. By May 10th, you claimed that the envelopes would kill you, that you have a candidate that you absolutely will not replace, and already on May 11th... You're not telling the truth. ...you started collecting signatures. [[Applause]] for the next candidate. You have treated this country very instrumentally women, you who always talk so much about women. [[Applause]] First you treated the marshal very instrumentally, and then... And you Prime Minister Szydło is normal... ...this is the most disgraceful thing. It is about using the lives of two women, their right to self-determination, their right to apply for the repeal of a criminal measure against each other. He pardoned a paedophile. Because they thought that this criminal measure was limiting them. Taking advantage of these women's lives It's a disgrace on your part. But he pardoned me. Pedophile. I'm asking you to calm down. You take away these women's right to self-determination. He raped his daughter. You didn't just attack the President, you attacked the justice system... Think about it. We, too, would like to know what the money from the Justice Fund is going for. ...because the court curator first spoke in this case, then the judge of the district court, the judges of the court of appeal. Shame, shame, you used these women's lives as a baseball bat to attack the President. Disgraceful! You will never wash off this disgrace. The president will never wash off this disgrace. Platform, stop lying. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u208	Thank you very much, Member. Allow me to defend myself. I do not know if you have pointed out that these elections were not to be held by the State Election Commission, and this is not in line with the Polish constitution and such elections should not take place. [[Applause]] But I'm talking about making sure you're a candidate to the end. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's current information is devoted to the high involvement of state institutions in the electoral process during the recent elections for President of the Republic of Poland. We were all very surprised to see this huge commitment of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and representatives of the Council of Ministers. They were so involved in this election campaign that they felt that today it was time for rest and they did not have the courage and the courage to come here and stand before the High House to answer questions. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very important point for each meeting of the Sejm. I would like to ask: Where are the representatives of the government who could relate to these very serious allegations? I understand they're resting after a tough election campaign. Your public television itself reported that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki held as many as 200 meetings in 100 counties. Question: "Is this the work of the government during the pandemic of Coronavirus?" But speaking of questions, Minister, I'm going to ask a maniac stubbornly about using the RCB alert system in the course of the election silence. Citizens were outraged that this system had been used. The design of this system is completely different. He's supposed to inform citizens of real threats in the area. And this system worked very well until July 11th, because unfortunately something bad happened then, namely we all received the message, here I quote: the second round of the presidential election on Sunday 12 July 60+ persons, pregnant women and disabled people will be able to vote in election committees without queues. Minister! I'll keep asking because your answers haven't convinced me. Answer the question: What was the reason for the decision to send such a message? What was the threat then? Who decided to use the RCB alert system? Was the Prime Minister involved in the decision-making process and are there procedures in place that would prevent this system from being abused for political purposes in the future? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u210	Thank you very much, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have never had such unfair elections since 1989. You've engaged the entire state apparatus just to push your candidate's second term. The government hasn't worked for almost a month. The head of government over the past few weeks has been just campaigning for Andrzej Duda's re-election and lying like shit. Ministers used to drive around the country, cut ribbons, even on investments during the course of the project, handed out checks to local government. Jacek Kurski on TVP doubled and tripled, starting the most disgusting campaign in the history of free Poland. Instead of pluralism, impartiality and balance, we had in these media a disgusting and stinging on Rafał Trzaskowski throughout the campaign and even during the silence of the election. Even the OSCE has not left its brutal campaign of dry hair on your campaign, paying attention to xenophobia, homophobia and anti-Semitism in public media, for example. The PKW hasn't announced the results yet, and there's already been a lot of irregularities. The voters from abroad tried to make it difficult for you to vote as much as you could because you knew that Rafał Trzaskowski had crushed Duda in almost every country. In this campaign, you put your emphasis on encouraging aversion to political opponents and encouraging aggression against different social groups. For the deepening divisions in society after these elections, you are responsible and you alone will be responsible. How embarrassing are you? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u213	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There have been many speeches concerning television so-called. a public who has spent a great deal of her time attacking all the candidates except Mr. Andrzej Duda. There was not a single material, and I want to make it very clear, not a single material, which would be even neutral for Rafał Trzaskowski or other candidates who applied for this function. They were all negative, except for the stuff about Andrzej Duda. It just shows what we're dealing with when it comes to television so-called. public. But I'd like to focus on a quote: The election was faked. It's the beginning of the East road. Ladies... In 2014 the Council This is how the system changes in Poland, because the state where elections are falsified is no longer a democratic state. Jarosław Kaczyński, 2014 It wasn't faked back then. But you have taken these words to heart as a means to accomplish. The worst part is, you're leading us to the East. We have God in our heart. But luckily 10 million Poles and Poles told you: enough, and I don't want to go there at all. And we're gonna do everything we can to turn back from this wrong path. Because you're trying to get us out of a democratic state right now. In three years. We're going to have 75%. Three years? Or is it shorter?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u214	Thank you very much. Last question, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u215	The so-called TV. public, or propaganda, there have already been a lot in this room, but maybe concrete examples. The Tea Cleansing House - propaganda television kept talking about the fact that it was the fault of Rafał Trzaskowski's candidate, the President of Warsaw. And that's for the previous and the previous president's sleep. Lech Kaczyński... You know what? Don't touch the sacred memory... ...the sewers were pouring into the Vistula. And that's the truth. The sewers were pouring into the Vistula. [[Applause]] That's one thing. Where the current president could be slandered, propaganda television did so. Disgraceful! Then, where President Andrzej Duda had to be whitewashed, Jack Kurski's television made him white. Mrs PiS said before me that the president did not pardon a paedophile. And who did he pardon, if not the man who was in the official record of the convicts, and in that register of dangerous paedophile criminals? That's the man he pardoned. But you didn't support the creation of this register. Are you referring to a ledger you didn't want? And saying that family wanted it is a big misunderstanding. Learn what Stockholm syndrome means. As for the fact that women were talking about the fact that they also need to live together for economic reasons, this is why Minister Ziobro and the Justice Fund should help them. And he wasn't helping them, he was helping them. propaganda television. This fight was just uneven. So the 10 million Poles who voted for Rafał Trzaskowski, this really is a huge success, you have to say it. 10 million on the other side is also a great success, but achieved thanks to the propaganda to which President Andrzej Duda has allocated [[♪ The bell ♪]] PLN 2 billion during the election campaign. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u216	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of Mr Boris Budka's applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u217	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No remorse, no humility. You can't say I'm sorry. First of all, you should apologize to your own constituents for treating them in such a disgraceful way. Because what you're doing is a great disdain for the intellect of ordinary people. We have great admiration for anyone who took part in this election. May 11th. We have great respect for anyone who cast their vote, no matter who they voted for. But we absolutely cannot agree to what you do in Poland. You've taken over because you're afraid of equal rivalry. Do you know how different the 2015 elections were from those? That your candidate Andrzej Duda had equal access at the time. That you organized a referendum. There were debates organized by all the media, there were equal rules, there was equal access to television. You've taken it all because what you're guided by is huge fear, fear of the truth, fear of the king being naked. You're afraid to tell us about the actual state of public finances. You're not fit. You cheated on pensioners, and yesterday you threw away a travel voucher for them. You promised 14 pensions - there's no money. The health fund - there's no money. You promised and you didn't do anything. PLN 2 billion on blunt, disgusting propaganda that taunts all the fundamental principles of the democratic rule of law. But you're special cowards. Why? Because you are afraid of the truth, you are afraid to stand up and tell us what Poland should be like. Don't insult us all the time. You haven't said anything new in this election campaign, repeating lies and untruths all the time. The program, Mr. Budka, you didn't. Unfortunately, you've fooled voters who are abroad. The Minister talks about a great turnout, but thousands of people could not participate in the celebration of democracy. Why? Because you're incompetent because you just didn't want them to vote. And at the same time, you did everything for the elected electoral groups to encourage them and to disgust others with this election. Mr President, all those who wanted to vote. But the Poles will judge it. We say clearly: There is no agreement to compete in such a way as to take over the state to treat public institutions as property of one party. You did it with TV, you tried to do it with uniforms, you did it with Treasury companies. You're talking about spending money on some companies, but it was on Monday that Kurski attacked your Prime Minister. Who had billboards at AMS? Andrzej Duda. After all, you're the ones who spend money in these companies, and suddenly you're outraged. PKN Orlen spends several hundred million PLN on promotion, advertising and PR, while the loss for the first quarter is 2 billion PLN. That's how you treat it. Like a cash cow who'll pay for your propaganda and your lies. These elections were not equal, these elections were not common but, above all, those elections were not fair. Because contrary to what you're saying, you're a party that has nothing to do with honesty. You've built all your political capital on a lie. And you say that? You've built political capital on a lie about a state in ruins, on a lie about a Smolensk disaster. You've been cheating people for so many years, talking about bombings, talking about a state in ruins... We're not gonna change the candidate. Who said that? ...while the biggest ruin you've caused is the state of the public media, the state of the state's money, there's this huge fraud and deception. And today you had a chance to stand here and apologize to the Poles, say yes: We won unfairly, sorry, you know, we wouldn't normally win. But you can't say that. You guys are like an athlete on a cheerleader. This election fight looked so that there was a ring surrounded by people in amok and at every break Jarosław Kurski added this doping to Andrzej Duda. And I'm ashamed. I am ashamed that the President of the Republic has been so elected because it will be a stigma for the next five years, because the lack of this democratic legitimacy will result in the fact that the head of state will be very weak. And it's all your fault. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You can't be honest. You can't play on equal terms because you lose on equal terms. [[Applause]] You look in the mirror and you talk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u218	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Minister Paweł Bosternaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the subject I presented on behalf of the government, the activities of the Government Security Centre - in my closing speech, Mr President did not address this. I understand that in some ways I have explained this matter in substance. Who's supposed to be referring here? As for these questions that have been raised, about the health and life of Poles - yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of an epidemic. The epidemic is over. I would like to remind you that these texts were sent in the same way as those sent in April, March this year... But what are we talking about? This isn't about. ...to inform citizens of new legislation related to the epidemic. And these Ardanowski letters are in what mode? The insurance company at KRUS. To conclude, because there was not much here in your arguments ad rem, there were only ad personam arguments directed towards me, and I would like to refer to this. You, Mr Nitras - this ridiculous manner of speaking: young man, about young man. Leave this, please, for your fellow Members of the Young Democrats, and in the Polish Parliament you can address me: Minister or Member. [[Applause]] Speaking of what you have said about me from this podium, I can only say that actually you, especially you, after this campaign of Rafał Trzaskowski and your role in this campaign, are not able to offend me, really. All you can do is make me laugh. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Your Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u220	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mr Sławomir Nitras.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u221	Dear Minister, Mr. Chairman, You're... Why am I talking to you, young man? You have proved with your statement that it was a whim of Mr. Brudziński that caused you to be a minister and not your competence. After all, we have been charged here for an hour with television, the role of state administration, 200 election meetings of Prime Minister Morawiecki for public money, the fact that you screwed up elections abroad especially because Trzaskowski won there, and in those countries where Trzaskowski's voters are... You've made an election in Bulgaria in Sofia. In Golden Sands, there are hundreds of thousands of Poles in Sunny Bank, and you in Sofia did 600 km off the coast because you didn't care about those voices because you know that these Poles are voting for someone else. You're an immature man. You haven't grown up. Do you know why you're the minister? Because because people like you, immature, are made ministers, Kaczyński can do anything in this country. The point is to have a serious person standing here, who, when there are allegations about the use of public media, e.g. In the campaign, he's gonna talk about it, [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you can't do that. Thank you very much, sir. You're the one who can only ad personam. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u222	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Piotr Wawrzyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u223	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There have been a few discussions of the OSCE's opinion on elections, so I will read to you a literal passage: All levels of electoral administration continued to fulfil their responsibilities professionally despite the difficulties of voting during the COVID-19 pandemic. Because self-government. Both candidates and authorities encouraged voters to vote actively in the second round. In a limited number of election venues visited by observers, the voting process and the counting of votes took place in an efficient and well-organized manner, and the health warnings were strictly respected. The elections were therefore considered fully democratic by the OSCE. [[Applause]] Returns in the UK, ladies and gentlemen. We had three reasons given by those who identified the return votes. Why were they coming back? Wrongly given address, package not received by the voter or voter absent. Just not all voters who signed up were available at this address when the packages came. The electoral system is malfunctioning. I would point out that it is not so that the election system is run by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The technical infrastructure that ensures its functioning and the system itself is run by an external operator, one of the large telecommunications operators, and it was on its side that there was wine in relation to the accident that took place. As for Split, all those who applied to this election committee had the opportunity to vote... They could have voted after 11 hours. ...but I would like to point out that this is the resort where four times as many voters came to the second round as the first one, but of course every voter who came there has been given the opportunity to vote. So were the queues... Holidays have taken you by surprise. The queues were also in those committees which were located in Polish resorts, there were queues, also where local government officials from the Civic Platform organized them. And that surprised you? That on the holidays of July 12 people are in resorts? As regards Berlin, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the decision of the German authorities, elections could only be held by correspondence, and it was therefore not possible to enter the list. This was possible on 9 June only by e-mail, telephone or otherwise, but also by election systems. And Bulgaria? On the other hand, it was not possible to make a voice out of it because it could only be delivered by correspondence. And Bulgaria? As for Bulgaria, Mr President, the same is true. I'm sorry, but please ask the Bulgarian authorities why they only agreed to open the polling place in Sofia. It wasn't our decision. Show me the handwriting that you wanted. It wasn't our decision. And if you knew, if you had experience in this area that you lack, you would know that this is done on the path of notes that are sent to the authorities, informing you of your willingness to hold elections... And what experience do you have? You're not a diplomat. ...and in the same way, the countries respond to our notes. That's how it's done in diplomacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u224	Thank you very much. And literally the last few seconds, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Paweł Lewandowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There have been a lot of accusations here, among others. public television and general media system in Poland. I just wanted to point out that it's not just public television that has responsibilities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] concerning information pluralism... [[Applause]] It's only public television that's included in the Radio Act. ...also other televisions have the same duty, because he is listed very clearly in the concession. The concession says very clearly to every television that every television should balance all sides with regard to information. It's a concession. Ladies and gentlemen, for the first time in many years, over the last few years, we finally have a situation where the infosphere is balanced. We have pluralism. That's why we need to balance... Pluralism. ...one, just the right narrative of other TV stations. And public television is doing it effectively. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] Do you understand what you're saying? The nerve, that's the nerve.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-16-sejm-14-2.u226	On this we exhausted the agenda of the 14th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. This concludes the 14th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 15th session of the Sejm, convened on 22nd, 23rd and 24th July 2020, was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 15 min 36]]
