ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u1	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I remember the 8th term when the Territorial Defence Army was formed and what an unusual attack on the part of the total opposition was the attempt to create these troops. The troops have been set up, they're functioning, they're creating more units. This, of course, makes Poles very happy. Why? That is because in a very short time this decision had been verified. In recent years Poland has encountered various - larger, smaller - cataclysms, especially in regional areas. There's been a meltdown, little hurricanes. It turned out that the Territorial Defence Army stood at the height of the task. They were the first to start helping people to save property, save the health and life of Poles. The next attempt that Poles face today is the issue of the epidemic. And here we see that both the Territorial Defence Army and the other formations immediately started to help Poles. It was the first soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army that came into social services homes to support workers and even take over care of patients at the time the staff were infected and could not take (the bell) care of them. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: How do you... Time. ...the war was prepared, how it was trained... Member, time. ...to support Poland and Poles in the fight against the epidemic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u2	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Minister of National Defence Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u3	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and High Seym! The Polish government has taken decisive action since the beginning of the pandemic to reduce the incidence and ensure the safety of Poles. The Polish Army soldiers have been involved in these activities since the first days. During the first days of the epidemic, I decided that the Polish Army would be divided into two operations: "Tarcza" for which the Operational Command of the Armed Forces Genesis was responsible, and "Survivor Spring" and later "During immunity" carried out by the Territorial Defence Forces. This operation is still under way. The operating forces supported the Border Guard and the police. Soldiers together with border guards ensured security at border crossing points until the borders were reopened. The territorials took care of, among others. helping state institutions, local governments or hospitals. Today, about 10,000 each day. The soldiers are fighting a pandemic, and another 10,000. is in constant readiness to take action. All the time Polish Army soldiers are involved in the construction of temporary hospitals. The military supported the construction of 17 such facilities throughout the country, among others. in Lublin, Rzeszów or Krakow, and prepared two container hospitals in Warsaw's Bemów and Wrocław. I've also made a decision to have the military organize a temporary hospital on site 1. Transport Air Base in Okęc, where we will provide care for 250 patients if necessary. We've already built over 50 insulators and over 20 field emergency rooms. At the Military Medical Institute on the street. Szaserów in Warsaw is established a hall hospital for the needs of people infected with the coronavirus. All the time Polish Army soldiers take action to relieve the burden of civilian health care and health and epidemiology station workers. We support nearly 700 hospitals and 173 sanitary and epidemiological stations. I also decided to include the sick of military universities in the fight against the effects of the epidemic. The Military Centre for Medical Training supports doctors and nurses today to a greater extent than a few months ago. The military was also supported by 21 regional blood donation and blood treatment centres. Soldiers are involved, among others. In pre-selection of blood and plasma donors, they conduct epidemiological interviews. They also organize blood donation activities and donate plasma. Since March more than 11 thousand soldiers of the Polish Army have been given away. And blood, and 200 soldiers donated plasma. There is no way to fail to mention the enormous effort that soldiers make every day to improve the system for the collection of research materials for the presence of Coronavirus. Today, the Polish Army is collecting swabs at about 300 hospital sites, and there are also more than 300 mobile teams. On average, the soldiers charge about 55,000. A week's worth of swabs. There are dozens of drive-thru points that are operated entirely by the Polish Army. Since the start of the pandemic, we have been supporting lonely, elderly and isolated people in their homes because of Coronavirus. In total, it is almost 11 thousand. Veterans, seniors and others in need. The territorials, the soldiers of the operating army and the sub-czars provide them with food, medicines and materials of first need. We took care of both the pensioners and the social services staff from the first days. Of the 824 DPS, as many as 743 were supported by the Territorial Defence Army. Soldiers carried out evacuations, disinfections, constantly supporting staff in the care of the pensioners. Chemical troops are also putting a great deal of effort into countering the effects of the epidemic. Our teams sanitize hospitals, social services or ambulances seven days a week. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Every day over 2.5,000. Military medics, nurses and paramedics take care of the health of the sick and save the lives of patients. 14 military hospitals, 5 preventive medicine centers and the Military Institute of Hygiene and Epidemiology work all the time. In military hospitals 35% The beds are intended for patients infected with coravirus, seven military laboratories are still performing tests for the presence of coronavirus. I decided to conduct compulsory medical training (Bingle) for Polish Army soldiers. Almost all soldiers took part in the theoretical and practical activities concerning COVID-19, the use of individual personal protective equipment and the provision of qualified first aid in a dangerous environment. If necessary, they will even be able to replace medical staff in certain tasks. Thank you, Minister. Next year, such training will also be carried out by reserve soldiers. In the second half of 2020, the soldiers went through patient care courses, so they are better prepared to perform care and care tasks, among others. for the benefit of the elderly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u4	Thank you very much. With an additional question, please, Mrs Agnieszka Górska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u5	Thank you, Marshal. Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! The situation related to the COVID pandemic in Poland is still very serious and I think we are all getting information about the extent of this epidemic, the return... Third wave. ...so-so-called. Third wave, yes. Will the Polish Army be prepared for this eventuality and - as it has been doing for several months - will support this activity, will it support the Ministry of Health? Of course, the Minister has already provided this information, but I am still interested in the situation concerning vaccination, because these two situations may occur at one time. Is the Polish Army prepared for this eventuality and will it continue to support the Ministry of Health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u6	Thank you very much. I ask Minister Błaszczak, the Ministry of National Defence, to answer an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u7	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Yes, of course. The fight against the coronavirus forced many activities that are not included in the military service on a daily basis. On the initiative of the Territorial Defence Forces e.g. a free helpline was organised to support people in crisis by WOT psychologists and operational troops. In November, the territorials launched a 24-hour support line for NGOs' social assistance centres, and I would very much like to draw the attention of the High House to the action that we started on 8 December. It was then that, on 8 December, we started another action, which we joined for the holidays, aimed at people with COVID, cancer patients and seniors, for whom we will organize video connections with families and loved ones, extremely important and actually psychologically strengthening these people. People who are ill who are lonely through video conferencing can talk to their family. Very good action. I am grateful to the initiators, the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army, for taking such an initiative. Of course, as the honourable Member has asked, the Polish Army will participate in the national vaccination programme. Soldiers will be responsible, among others. for the distribution and logistics of vaccines and will also create mobile vaccination teams. 13 military hospitals have been classified into a national vaccination programme against SARS COVID-19 virus. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Polish Army will help as long as the situation requires. So far, using our experience, we will primarily support civilian health care, transport personal protective equipment, disinfectants, necessary equipment to hospitals. In order to minimise the effects of Coronavirus and stop its spread, we will use military medical infrastructure and use experienced military medical personnel. We will not leave unattended and support seniors, veterans, lonely people. Today I would like to thank all Polish Army soldiers and military workers for the titanium work they do every day. Soldiers have already proven that they can always be helped. Over the past few months, they have shown that they are willing to adapt to all circumstances and support virtually every area of the state's functioning. We will also be able to count on their help in the coming months. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's the spirit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u8	Thank you very much, Minister. Another question prepared by parliamentarians from Law and Justice, Members of Jarosław Zieliński, Arkadiusz Czartoryski and Robert Gontarz, on the government's scope of state support for medium-sized cities losing their socio-economic functions in the framework of the Responsible Development Strategy, and the country's 2030 Regional Development Strategy, the criteria adopted to update the delination of cities extending the development distance and the qualification rates of cities to the list of centres requiring dedicated assistance, as well as the possibility of including cities which, as a result of the recent administrative reform, lost the status of the voivodeship city. Question addressed to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. I would ask you to ask Mr Jarosław Zieliński for a question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Yes, it's a complicated title, but it's very important. One of the cornerstones of the Law and Justice programme and its five-year government policy is the principle of sustainable development of the country. Under this policy, the government is preparing another important instrument to be implemented in the nearest financial perspective. On the basis of an analysis of experts from the Institute of Geography and Spatial Management of the Polish Academy of Sciences, the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy established a list of 139 medium-sized cities losing socio-economic functions, which were qualified for dedicated support from the state. This programme is well correlated with the Responsible Development Strategy and the 2030 National Regional Development Strategy. Given the socio-economic and political importance of the project and its interest by local governments and the public I kindly ask the Minister to answer the following questions. Firstly, what indicators and criteria were the basis for shaping this list of 139 cities losing their socio-economic and developmental functions, which are foreseen for dedicated support from the State? Secondly, what will be the mechanisms and what is the planned scope, and what is the planned amount of aid for these urban centres in order to strengthen their socio-economic functions? And thirdly, is it possible to include the planned support programme for cities that have lost the status of voivodship centres as a result of the recent administrative reform and have not been included in the list of 139 cities established on the basis of the criteria and indicators mentioned above? Bielsko-Biała, Czestochowa, Kalisz, Koszalin, Leszno, Piotrków Trybunalski, Płock, Siedlce, Skierniewice and Suwałki were not included among the former voivodeship cities on this list. The inclusion of these cities in the State support programme for centres losing their socio-economic functions (the bell) would be the completion of the concept of development compensation for the loss of their administrative and socio-economic functions, which has been announced since the administrative reform by the government of AWS-UW for more than 20 years. You're welcome, Minister, to answer these questions. I hope there's a positive answer to the third one.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u10	Thank you very much, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy of Minister Waldemar Buda. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u11	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this question, because this is indeed an extremely important subject from the perspective of the nearest perspective on European measures, the implementation of which is inevitably coming. And we also know that the payment of these funds is not in any way and will not be subject to conditionality, which has not been discussed so long ago. In any event, ladies and gentlemen, as the Minister has pointed out, the support of medium-sized cities losing their socio-economic functions is, of course, part of the policy of sustainable development that has already been mentioned, as well as in the programme of law and justice. The first thing to explain is that this study actually has a scientific value, i.e. was prepared by the Polish Academy of Sciences, by the Institute of Geography and Spatial Management. Therefore, the data on which it was based and the methodology are strictly scientific. Of course, we have criteria, because the opinion was ordered, we made certain conditions. You can say that these conditions, these criteria assigning these 139 cities in two steps, because first it was 119, then it was expanded as a result of updating this list, had its, you can say, two steps... The first step was to take into account the basic statistical conditions and statistical forecasts, especially the GUS-owskie, which are reduced to criteria such as the change of registered population, the forecast of the population of GUS in the years 2018 to 2030 in a particular municipality, the change in the number of unemployed, i.e. dynamics, the change of own income in the municipalities' budgets, the change in the number of nights granted, the change in the number of registered economic operators and - the seventh criterion - the change in the number of seats of the largest companies according to the list of 2 000. companies in the Republic of Poland - applying appropriate comparable, cross-cutting and slight changes in source indicators. So as far as the basic criteria are concerned, these were the seven elements. As regards this group, which has been selected on the basis of these criteria, the next criteria, which were taken into account in the second stage, are demographic ageing, migration balance, education of the population, school education, income poverty, social activity, accessibility to services, advanced entrepreneurship, self-government wealth, population wealth per capita and investment expenditure, unemployment rate, spatial availability and urbanisation level. So, in fact, all the social issues that affect this general shape of urban tissue development have been taken into account. If there is a discussion area here in terms of what criterion could be taken into account from among the 21 that have been proposed here, then we are open to discussions and some constructive approach to updating this policy. I don't see any problem here, but I think it's exhausting enough that finding another criterion will be extremely difficult, but of course we're open here. Next in order was the question of what mechanisms and what support is planned for these local authorities. Firstly, in the coming perspective, such a tool as to serve these centres is integrated territorial investment, so-called. ZIT. Most of this assistance will focus on this. Today we are at a stage where we are working on preparing these integrated territorial investments at the level of local governments of voivodships. They identify these places today and support these local authorities so that they actually show links between certain spatial groups, spatial territories, so as to unite and try to present common assumptions and common plans that could be implemented under the ZITs, i.e. it can be said that they will mostly be regional operational programmes, i.e. managed by the voivodship boards. We, of course, will require local authorities to strongly point and bet on ZITs in order to go very low with these investment needs, to actually identify them, of course, to some extent, because European funds have to do with themselves that they have their limits, also somehow to satisfy all the expectations that will arise in these cities. But of course (The Bell) is also a whole range of tools that will be used by these cities at national level. There were certain cities here that didn't qualify. The Minister pointed out here Piotrków, Leszno, Koszalin, Suwałki, Siedlce. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not in any way exclude those entities from aid, which will be very broad, but no longer in the name of the idea of this programme and this opinion that we have created... Thank you. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: ...for a new perspective, but from the point of view of such a global approach of the current government to such centres. We're betting heavily on these centers. The strategy for regional development and a sustainable strategy for responsible development is exactly what they say not to... Minister, in response to the supplementary question, a thread can be developed. Let's stick to the rules. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Okay, just the last sentence. Good. State Secretary at the Ministry of Funds and Regional Policy Waldemar Buda: Of course, we will also direct this assistance to these centres. We have several programs, and I wanted to say something about local development, from Norwegian funds - this is a matter that is currently being resolved. It's also our idea to respond to the needs of these cities. So we will certainly try to focus on these medium and small centres. The Minister is very much at heart, and he is so determined to fight for it. So thank you very much for that question. I hope we can help those centers that the Minister pointed out. I'm also asking for such individual contact. We'll be working on these solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Zieliński with an additional question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u13	I would like to thank the Minister for this information, but because this framework is not finally shaped and there are no final decisions made, I would like - there is no room for polemics, of course, because it is not enough time - to give the government, the ministry, the Prime Minister consideration to this request to apply this second criterion. I do not question the criteria that the Polish Academy of Sciences has prepared, of course they are logical, are objective and these cities are qualified according to these criteria, but my question is one or the second criterion that could be considered, could not be this historically unfinished issue of former voivodship cities that have lost the status of such cities. Some of them entered this program, some of which are of course voivodship centers of new, larger voivodships today, but there are 10 cities left out here. They are faced with various developmental problems and maybe there could be this historical arrears ranging from AWS and the Freedom Union to this programme in some (Bell) important degree to make up for or settle. I ask you to consider this matter. Of course, other mechanisms are also worth thinking about, thank you, that the government is thinking about these other support mechanisms, also for sub-regional centres, but, Minister, please consider the postulate, because it is important for political, historical and development reasons.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u14	Thank you very much. Minister Waldemar Buda with an answer. You're welcome. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u15	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have shown some openness in this area, because, as I say, the first list and study indicated 119 cities, today it is 138 or 139, and therefore it is possible to update this list in view of the wider coverage of other centres as well. The question is what individual, specific characteristics of specific individuals should be taken into account so that they can be included in this list. But I was determined to say that this list does not determine who will have it and who will not have it. We show this opinion more precisely that these centres losing socio-economic functions, with more than 20,000. residents, also district cities from 15 to 20 thousand. These are centers that are generally lost. Please note the scale - 139 entities, this is the scale of size. So we're showing this problem. This opinion and this study, as if pointing to a problem, show: yes, these centres need support, they are demoting socially and economically and we need to focus our attention on them. And, as we are discussing this in the High House today, this effect has been achieved, i.e. this study has shown that we should be concerned and as if we should focus on European intervention and allocation in that direction. So this discussion will also serve to strengthen small and medium-sized centres. Believe me, we'll be very determined to do this. We have a completely different philosophy than our predecessors, for which this polarizing and diffusion system was supposed to operate in such a way that large centres were supposed to emanate their advantages in the form of economic and social development into smaller centres, i.e. in such a way that the prosperity of large centres would somehow affect the small ones. It turned out that the relationship between one and the other is very small, that it is quite the opposite, because it increased the developmental differences between these units, increased, built demographicly large units, because these differences were increasing, and to a small extent affected the development of small centres. We completely rejected it, and that's why we're sending help, and we're gonna direct it to these smaller and medium-sized centers, and we're gonna focus on them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u16	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. This is a question prepared by Members of the Civic Coalition Jack Protas, Mark Sowa, Monika Wielichowska, Piotr Adamowicz, Barbara Nowacka and Agnieszka Pomaska on the political distribution of funds from the 2nd edition of the Government Local Investment Fund, addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The question will be asked by Mr Jacek Protas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In recent weeks, many Poles have wondered why the European Union so consistently wants to link European funds with the conditionality mechanism, the rule of law. We received the answer to this question on 11 December, when Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced the decision on the second call concerning the government's local investment programme. PLN 4350 million were distributed and it turned out that the funds for this fund were allocated on the basis of political, subjective criteria, in violation of the right of applicants to a full appeal path, in breach of the principle of equality between participants in public life. The unclear objective of the allocation of funds, the lack of a transparent procedure for examining proposals, the consistent refusal to grant funds in places where Poles and Poles express their dissatisfaction with government policy is a clear example of mismanagement of funds coming from the state budget. The general opinion of citizens, as well as independent experts, and their deep conviction is that the activities of the Fund are not economical and unreliable. And just a few examples. The Podkarpackie region received PLN 452 million from this fund, Świętokrzyskie - PLN 392 million and Warmia-Mazurskie, similar in terms of development potential, population - only PLN 138 million. What does it look like to be a resident? In Podkarpacie - 212 PLN per person, in Podlasie - 154 PLN per person, and already in Wielkopolska - 76 PLN per person, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Lubuskie - 83, in Opole - 88. Due to such far-reaching irregularities, we apply as a Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition to the Supreme Audit Chamber to carry out a thorough review of the procedure for the allocation of funds under the Government's Local Investment Programme. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u18	Thank you very much. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the response will be given by the Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers Łukasz Schreiber. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start by saying that we're really talking about big support for local governments. We are talking about support for local governments at the level of 12 billion PLN, about unprecedented aid which went to Polish municipalities, powiats and voivodships. We are talking about support that the government was not obliged to provide, which the government has never given on such a scale, even on an approximate scale, in the days of our esteemed predecessors. We are talking about the support that is needed to sustain local investment also in our small homelands. These are therefore additional measures. That's the first explanation. Second thing. In connection with those words that you have said, words that have absolutely nothing to do with reality, the supposedly political granting of funds, the exclusion of centres that are supposedly hostile to the present power, etc., I have such a mystery. What links such villages: Szczecin, Łódź, Kraków, Warsaw, Poznań, Bydgoszcz, Gdańsk, Wrocław, Katowice, Gliwice, Białystok, Gdynia, Lublin, Bielsko-Biała, Sosnowiec, Opole, Rzeszów? This is the 17 of the 20 largest beneficiaries of this scheme. 17 of the 20 largest beneficiaries of this scheme. Second tour. Only three in this 20, only three, are voivodships, where law and justice actually co-rule. So it's definitely not true. I asked for a second tour, Minister. As far as the second tour is concerned, this thesis is also absurd. Let me just mention the very large beneficiaries of this programme in the second round: the city of Bydgoszcz, the city of Koszalin, the district of Rawicki, the district of Nowomiejski, the municipality of Starachowice, the town of Rybnik, the city of Tychy, the city of Częstochowa, the Pomeranian Voivodeship, the Opolskie Voivodeship, etc. There are hundreds of examples. Finally, because here we come to the problem of cloud, which is, from your point of view, a fundamental problem? It is because these funds also go to smaller towns. 'Cause I'm afraid you can get that impression. The fact that we have left this fatal concept, which was proposed by our predecessors, from this model of polarizing and diffusional development of the country to a sustainable model, and we do not intend to get off this path. And if, gentlemen, you say that these are the criteria, please, point out, have the courage and tell us which of these projects are unnecessary, which of those projects for which funds have been allocated should be taken. I'm just gonna pay attention to one thing. I don't know how it is across the country, now I don't have that number, but I can give you an example of my Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship: there were 600 projects in total, 100 were positively evaluated by the committee, recommended. So it is, of course, a natural matter that not all of them could be considered, regardless of their will. And as in the first round everyone got, regardless of everything, not according to the demographic criterion as it often falls, but according to the investment criterion that was taken into account, so in the second round it was actually a competition. Such a competition, which is held many times and has always been held many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u20	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Marek Owa with an additional question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, we are only talking about the second recruitment under the Government Local Investment Fund, about the party distribution of PLN 4300 million, which you took from the local government by amending tax laws in September 2020. You have divided their money and - I am convinced - you wanted to distinguish yours, give yours and punish those who may have the ability to give their own opinion, who may sometimes be critical of this power. But you didn't punish those self-government people. You have punished the inhabitants of these communities, millions of Poles and Poles. If the Minister says that about sustainable development that is close to you, how do you justify that one gets paid for everything, for four projects, the other gets nothing? What do you say? The area around Lake Mucharski: one municipality, little one - four projects, more than 7 million (The Bell), the other - not a penny. What are the worse inhabitants of Andrychow than the inhabitants of Wadowice? We can give you hundreds of examples here. You just wanted to split the Poles. It's the best thing you've done in five years, nothing but split into better and worse. Thank you very much, sir, for the question asked. And here was the division between the PiS and the others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u22	Thank you very much. Minister Łukasz Schreiber will answer. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, this is, of course, once again a complete misunderstanding. What does it mean to talk about a second call? I was the one who presented the measures... You're talking about the second round. I presented the measures that are included together, including the first and second recruitments... We're talking about a second round. ...and there's gonna be a third round. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. In fact, I understand, because that sounded like your speech, which is a major problem. The point is that the government presents projects that lower taxes, and the parliamentary majority accepts them. And that, I understand, is terribly painful. No, they're moving from government to state. Because you just said that that's why there are losses to local governments. Well, ladies and gentlemen, yes. You took the local authorities and moved them to the state. That's what we're gonna want - don't yell - we're gonna want... This is the purpose of the government in which I am privileged to sit, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, so that Poles can get rich so that taxes are as low as possible. And we're not getting off this road either. Ha, ha, ha! You're talking about disadvantaged local governments right now. Well, I've just cited dozens of examples of cities, districts where Law and Justice don't rule... Please, zero. ...in which people are governed by you. Of course, you couldn't give money for everything. Mr Owl, this is the Sejm, not the cabaret. Yeah, for example. one of the cities: ski slope cover - PLN 200 million. In fact, the scandal that they didn't get. Who else wanted to build a 50-pound hockey stadium, ski jumping, golf academy with a 6-hole golf course, overhead ecological trails with a gondola queue. Of course, there were a lot of projects, more or less absurd. There were also a lot of expectations that some of the cities existed. about 1 billion PLN as one city, in total. Of course, such expectations cannot be met, because that was not the purpose of this fund either. In spite of all these screams, we will consistently support, consistently support local governments, regardless of what kind of president, governor or mayor has party legitimacy. And it's never gonna be a criterion for assessing whether or not they're gonna go anywhere. Because if that were the case, as you just introduced it, there wouldn't be 17 of the 20 cities that are the biggest beneficiaries of this project. So, I ask that you (the bell) do not insult the local governments who have won, who have received money, so that you do not make this program because it is needed. It is needed for local governments, entrepreneurs and Poland. It is needed to come out of the crisis related to the pandemic of Coronavirus as soon as possible. Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Question prepared by the club Lewis, by the Members: Krzysztof Gawkowski, Monika Falej, Tomasz Trela, Wiesław Buża, Dariusz Wieczorek, Marek Rutka, Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, Katarzyna Kretkowska, Roberta Kwiatkowski, Karolina Pawliczak, Wanda Nowicka, Daria Gosek-Popiołek, Katarzyna Ueberhan and Katarzyna Kotula, on the rules for granting funds from the Government Local Investment Fund. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. I ask Mrs Monica Walej to ask the question. I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u25	Can you hear it now? Oh, good, thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In a pandemic day, all hands on deck. Self - government struggles with huge problems in their budgets. Therefore, the government created the Local Initiatives Fund, so-called. FIL. It's the government's idea to support local governments and compensate in these difficult times. 4.35 billion PLN of non-refundable support is to be allocated, among others. for the implementation of infrastructure, education or digitalisation projects. The money that comes from the COVID-19 fund is shared by the government. However, it is not a transparent procedure, and numerous protests by local government officials, the largest since 1989, raise concerns and raise questions. For example, the Pomeranian Voivodeship will receive PLN 237 million from the second stage, but the money will not be for Gdańsk or Gdynia. The authorities of Łódź applied for PLN 431 million - they will get zero. The list of beneficiaries does not include the largest cities of Warmia and Mazury - Olsztyna, Elbląg or Ełku. I dare say that in this case they did not decide the substantive criteria, but politics. In turn the Podkarpackie voivodship will receive more than PLN 452 million distributed in this part of the competition. In Podkarpacie government funds received 150 out of over 500 reported tasks. Self-governments that don't run the PiS got little or nothing. They will get nothing: Rzeszów, Tarnobrzeg, Krosno, Mielec or Przemyśl. There's no PiS in charge. The money did not reach the largest cities, which are the decisive driving force behind the economy in the region. Thus, the lack of funding based on reliable criteria threatens the optimal development of regions. So I ask and expect a clear answer: What are the rules for granting money? Please provide the substantive criteria for the amount of support. Has the fund managing authority prepared an algorithm to create a ranking list of applicants and who was in the membership of the grant committee and where and where the local authorities can appeal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u26	Thank you very much. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the response will be given by the Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers Łukasz Schreiber. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to explain that I was not in any committee, but I am responding to the criteria. The criteria, which are clear from the resolution, are indicated directly in Resolution No 102 of the Council of Ministers of 23 July 2020 on support for investment tasks by local government units. The Commission, when assessing the conclusions, therefore took into account the following criteria indicated in § 10 of the Resolution: implementation of the principle of sustainable development, complexity of planned investments, limitation of emissions and level of interference of planned investments in the environment, cost of planned investments in relation to the planned revenues of the entity in the year of the start of the investment, number of persons affected by the planned investments, the cost of planned investments to the expected effect, the impact of the planned investment on the reduction of the effects of natural disasters or the prevention of them in the future, if the planned investment may have such an impact, and finally ensuring availability within the meaning of the Law of 19 July 2019 on ensuring accessibility for persons with particular needs. And that is the precise answer to the question that you requested. As for the protests of local government officials, we saw the protest of parts... Moreover, the protest was of the medium sense - that is the most delicate term - related to the negotiations in the European Union, which led the government, which led the Prime Minister, calling for the immediate signing of everything that is on the table. In this way, the government will not conduct politics and regardless of pressures it will not look like that. Contrary to what is raining here, we will not do so, the government will not do so and I never imagine his representatives trying to do what unfortunately the practices are in parts of the voivodships or have been for a number of years, that in order to receive any investment with the support of the Marshal of the given voivodship, you need for example. give someone a position one way or another. Such practices also do not take place and will not be tolerated. Ha, ha, ha! And as for the fact that there are a number of dissatisfied people, it's true. Like every competition, there's probably more dissatisfied than happy. The examples you have given, the examples of cities that have applied for hundreds of millions of zlotys - this in itself proves not to be a serious attitude and understanding of these people. Because how did they imagine that one city could get several hundred million at the 4 billion that were now distributed? It's part of the project. But of course, you can imagine everything, you can try to blame it on the government for everything, not on yourself. Let me remind you that this is unprecedented support, this is not any support for the task of self-government that has been commissioned, this is support So that we can carry these local investments. There are attempts to lie to reality, while - I will also mention - the largest cities benefit from a number of programmes that are not available, as you know, for smaller towns, and still among the beneficiaries of this scheme, the largest beneficiaries, they are at the forefront. So I would ask you very much, in the name of some completely incomprehensible political, as I understand it, not to cause a fight that has nothing to do with reality and which contradicts what is happening and what has been shown by me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u28	Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Monica Falej with an additional question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u29	The Minister said it was ridiculous that this was a political upheaval. I will just remind you of the words of the Prime Minister who explained that he wanted to help the poorest regions: We are done with the logic of Poland A, B, C. Poland is to develop evenly. I'm the one asking, "How even?" Then why is Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship, which is one of the poorest regions, at the end of this list? Why? Warmia and Mazury were treated in such an exceptionally bad way? The grant of PLN 97 per capita is the worst indicator from the entire eastern wall. This is one of the worst indicators in Poland. I will add and say again: Ełk, Iława, Elbląg, Olsztyn will get nothing, these are cities in the region that actually has a very strong impact on the entire subregions. There is really no logic behind the allocation of funds, unless we look at the regions where the PiS rules. Then the situation becomes clear and clear, and then we can actually say that a region such as Warmia, Mazury or Powisla can brawl or be funny, as the Minister said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u30	Thank you, Member. I ask for an answer from Minister Łukasz Schreiber. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u31	My dear Miss Marshal! High Izbo! The information provided by the Member is certainly incorrect. As far as Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship is concerned, it is true that this amount amounts to 138 million - I am just talking about the second hand in RFIL tasks, because the first one in this case is immeasurable, because the first one depended on investment supervision - 138 million. Podkarpackie, 452. But it's important to support per capita, and it's a conversion. That's almost 100 zlotys, 99 exactly. Subcarpathian - 212. This is the average, ladies and gentlemen, on a national scale. So it cannot be concluded that the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship was in any way wronged here. He's got average support on a national scale, like I said. Really, I understand that everyone can try to give examples from their region, including towns that, in their second recruitment, did not get the funds, they were not given the funds in the competition. Yes, there is a whole range of such places in Poland, but this does not justify you in any way either and I would ask you very much to remember that. And there is really no need to tell the people of their regions and provide information that is incompatible with reality. I can give you a number of numbers, as in the case of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, and I can tell you with my hand at heart that the overwhelming majority of these measures have gone to the municipalities, to districts which have nothing to do with the current parliamentary majority. So that I encourage you to do it anyway... Besides Rypin, you don't have much self-government. Mr Protas... ...to enjoy the means they hit, because it's not exclusion of anyone. And the third tour is ahead of us and in the third tour, as I understand it, the next local governments will be supported. So that I encourage all self-governments to do so, in spite of the screams that take place here in the Chamber, to apply for these funds to submit ideas in competitions to offer good solutions, and not necessarily for a few hundred million, but for those that are needed by the inhabitants. Thank you very much. And the ambulance for the Łódź county?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u32	Thank you very much, Minister. Madam, you are in the plenary room. I'm asking you to calm down. Another question prepared by members of the Polish Coalition Stefan Krajewski, Jan Łopata, Dariusz Klimczak, Mirosław Maliszewski and Marek Sawicki on the allocation of funds under the Government Local Investment Fund is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The question is asked by Mr Jan Łopata.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u33	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have received a written form of question in current matters, and you have received it from us. I don't think we're going to duplicate it now, especially since I think the situation is unprecedented. This is a matter that all opposition clubs in this item are discussing and wishing to be informed about. I think the case is so appalling and unfair that the Minister can't be ignored or embarrassed. I would ask you very much not to do that. Because the programme as a programme is and is needed, and it is worth to continue, it is only about some detail, and it is about a fair division, and that is not what you have proved so far. Let me just remind you, Minister, that you are graciously sharing funds, public money, not yours, budget money, or perhaps even a deficit, and it is worth not having any doubts about this. Second line. Please also do not use this rhetoric that we want to deprive someone of money, point out the wrong conclusion. It's not our role, it's not the role of the opposition, it's not those who didn't get the money. This is an argument that is intended to divide local governments, this is an attempt. We're not in. You'd better focus on those questions we've addressed to you, to you, and present them to us in detail. For example, on the question whether protocols have been drawn up from the work of the committee responsible for this division, whether there are evaluation cards for these proposals. We'd like to see the evaluation cards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm also asking you a technical question. I didn't count how many of these applications from all over the country, but given that there are 836 from Lublin, that was a few thousand applications. Like this six. - did the seven-member committee technically make this choice? Where are those protocols, where are those evaluation cards? That's what we'd like to know.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u34	Thank you, sir. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, the response will be given by the Minister-Member of the Council of Ministers Łukasz Schreiber. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already mentioned, I have not been a member of this committee, I am unable to give you information on the technical details that relate to how the protocols have been followed and how they have been drawn up. But no doubt, if the honourable Member asks such a question, and it is here, then the answer will also be given in writing, because, as I say, I am not able to do it at the moment. I'm just asking for one thing. Speaking of appalled opposition and appalled local governments, you know very well, is definitely speaking out of proportion, because I am convinced that in a situation where all these funds have been received, in a situation where the third tour is still ahead of us, in a situation where... It is clear that they could not receive in the second round absolutely everyone. I'll limit myself to an example from my voivodship. We have 170 local government units, and ninety-several proposals have been positively assessed, which is necessarily even if there was one project per local government unit, not everyone could receive support. Please understand the basics. And you can't show on this example that you're supposed to see a party key there. So that, after all, I would encourage that this energy that you have and which you display here in the plenary room, focus on matters and for these important local authorities, and for Poles, not on trying to ridicule the project or make a project that provides really gigantic support to all local authorities without sharing it due to political criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u36	Thank you, Minister. Marek Sawicki will ask an additional question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u37	Minister! A colleague spoke about the fact that all opposition clubs have addressed this question, but also all the journals have been on the subject for the second day. There are two proposals addressed to NIK: the Polish People's Party and the Civic Coalition. I would also like to say that we have no regrets about the separation of the first tranche of PLN 6 billion. No one questioned it, and there was no one around, and in this case three journals describe today, in what mode and how it was done. Then I hope the Minister will sue these logs. The 9-person committee received requests from the voivodships indicating who can, and who can't, who should and who shouldn't. And in this 9-person committee there are such good names as Krzysztof Kubów, the head of the political cabinet of Prime Minister, Member and Deputy Minister Iwona Michalek and Member and Deputy Minister Waldemar Buda. So if that's not true - what you're saying - that there was a political key, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then please sue those journals today and let them correct it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u38	Thank you very much. And Minister Łukasz Schreiber will answer the additional question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u39	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, I've already said absolutely everything. You know, I don't sue journals because one or another newspaper wrote false information. If the government were just gonna do this, it probably wouldn't be enough time for anything else. So that I thank you very kindly for this hint, but I don't think it makes much sense, as you well know. Dear Member, this is, of course, your right, the conclusions have, I understand, been addressed to the Supreme Audit Chamber. The case will be dealt with by her. As I say, I am not even going to argue with this, but, you know, I understand that this is the kind of thinking that often arises from the experience of the state of the local government and maybe that's how your vagrants often think. Because that way of thinking, that way of feeling injustice is often in those voivodships where you rule, and that's what you've ruled for years. If you go - I invite you - e.g. to my Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, you could listen to what about various competitions prepared by your włodarzy thoughts and residents, and local governments. So that a minimum of humility in this case would be useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u40	Thank you very much. Your marshal, I know it's off-the-book, but... No, no, I'm sorry, there's no procedure, sir. But I'll ask the Minister for a written formula. He promised. Fill it out. Thank you. Okay, but thank you, sir. Thank you, Minister, for the matter we have concluded. Let's move on to the next question, to the next case. The question is prepared by members of the Civic Coalition: Barbara Nowacka, Monica Rosa, Monica Wielichowska, Claude Jachira, Michał Szczerba, Urszula Zielińska, Katarzyna Lubnauer, Dariusz Joński and Aleksandra Gajewska, and concerns the persecution of participants and protesters on women's rights and the cost of securing these protests by the police and services throughout the country, in particular monuments in Piłsudski Square and Jarosław Kaczyński's house. The question is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The question is asked by Barbara Nowack. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Since 22 October, Poland has had a wave of protests in defence of women's rights, dignity and security. These are peaceful protests, numerous and joyful protests, while we have seen, in particular since mid-November, significant brutalisation by the authorities, by the police. We also see that more and more resources are being organised, including public funds, of course, and more and more bizarre safeguards are being organised. Barriers are wreaking up and hindering the movement actually throughout the whole centre of Warsaw, the Sejm cannot be reached, even when there are no protests, to protect the monuments, to protect Mr Kaczyński's house 80 police cars were used a few days ago. All over Poland police forces are mobilized to guard, write, act against peacefully protesting under existing law to citizens. The police invade houses, take and commandeer flags with lightning, while the Polish society pays for all this. Minister! We expect information about the cost of security for peaceful protests across the country, we also expect information about who makes such decisions, who decides to use such security measures, who decides that there are 80 police cars in front of one house and on the street. There's been a fence and a fence for the village for almost a month? What are the costs? Whose decisions are these? Is this in your view adequate to the level of threat posed by peacefully protesting women and young people? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u42	Thank you, Member. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Maciej Wąsik. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address this question in a manner that is as complete and precise as possible, but at first I would like to correct a certain point. She was pleased to say that these are peaceful protests within the framework of the law. I wanted to point out that Polish law does not allow public gatherings of more than five people during the pandemic period. These rules are in force, they have been passed by the High Sejm and there is no doubt about it. So the first thing is, the conventions are not legitimate, although I understand the fundamental democratic right to assembly, but not to assembly under pandemic conditions. Any expert will tell you... Spontaneous gatherings. Your Marshal, please do not disturb me. I'm asking you to tell me the truth. Member, will you continue to make it difficult for you to drive? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: If you're not interested in my answer, you can leave. You can start... Then why ask questions? Please, sir. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I'd like to say that the police are carrying out their statutory tasks. All police activities undertaken since 22 October are her statutory tasks - also the protection of the Sejm, also the protection of citizens, also the protection of protesters, because there have been situations where there have been shortcomings between one group and another. That's where the police always appeared, separating the protesters and calming the situation. This was the case on October 28 in the vicinity of the roundabout de Gaulle, where if it were not for the police, there would be bloodshed, bloody fights. I think that Mr Sienkiewicz, who is absent today, could testify to this situation. I would like to stress, Madame, that the police have not increased their budget in connection with the tasks carried out in recent months, and that the police budget should not have been increased. This was all part of the funding planned for this year. If you are concerned about the protection of monuments, then the costs have indeed been incurred, but rather by the local authorities, to clean up the monuments that have been desecrated. It is about the monument of the National Army, which has been bearing unreasonably inscriptions, it is about the monument of Ronald Reagan, who was repaired vulgarly desecrated, recently it is about the monument of the victims of the Smolensk catastrophe - 96 victims, Poland in a pill that died in Smolensk - on which two masked people wrote: Abortion is okay. I must reassure you, Madame, these people have been taken by the police and will be brought to justice in order to answer for their actions. I would like to stress that police action in the assessment of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is adequate, correct and that all controversial situations in which the police are accused of exceeding their powers in connection with the use of direct coercion measures are carefully investigated. These proceedings continue, some of them have ended, some have not yet ended. I would like to stress, Madame, that both the management of the MSWiA and the police is extremely concerned that all such matters should be clarified, as the case of the beating of two homeless police officers in Tychy has been explained. This morning, two police officers from the city headquarters in Tychy were arrested by the Internal Affairs Bureau of the Police. Anywhere where allowances are exceeded, such actions will be carried out. I would like to stress that as far as the measures taken since 22 October are concerned, I have not found situations where the police have exceeded their powers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And the broken arm? And the gas against the messenger, Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u44	I ask you to remain calm, sir. Thank you very much. Can I ad vocem? Mrs Monica Rosa with a supplementary question. You're welcome, my fellow Member. I'm gonna want to say the same thing. But I'm sorry... Mrs. Monica Rosa's coming in. Can I have the floor ad vocem? There's no such thing. There it is. You're welcome, my fellow Member. There it is. The Minister called me. There's a mode... Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome. Rules of procedure...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u45	Mrs. Marshalkini! Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, the Constitution guarantees us the right to assembly - art. 57 constitutions. Art. 31 The Constitution states that restrictions on rights and freedoms can only be laid down in the law. You made it a regulation, you didn't bring in an emergency. These are legal, peaceful gatherings. Do you think using force is proportional, that it's not a violation of police authority if a girl who protests breaks her arm in three places? A defenseless teenager with a strong policeman breaking his arm in three places. Do you think it's right - tell me who gave this order - to use ununited police officers from the Bureau of Anti-Terrorism Operations who used telescopic sticks at a convention in Warsaw? Do you think it's right that cops go into a private apartment, a private person's apartment, and in the presence of their children, they take off the flag just because someone thinks that such a flag is illegal? Do you think that all the repression that affects the protesters, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Legitimating, locking in a boiler, that's legal action, Minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u46	Thank you, Member. Minister Maciej Wąsik will answer. You're welcome, Minister. Minister, answer me about the soda. Mr President, the question has been answered. Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say this: Measures of direct coercion are provided for by law, law and police apply these measures of direct coercion in accordance with the provisions of the law. He's breaking the bill right now. Come on, Minister. Mr... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Here Mr Szczerba drew my attention to the situation that took place in front of the police station, in front of the police district police station... Wolf's. ...at Wolf's, where a 19-year-old girl, a 19-year-old, suffered a broken arm as a result of police coercion. Let me say this: As Minister, as Deputy Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I regret that this situation is deeply regrettable. Unfortunately, when using coercive measures, sometimes there can be such a situation that such damage will occur, and I regret this situation. This situation is being explained. Not further than yesterday, knowing that I would answer to the High House, I asked the Chief of Police to present this situation to me. And here's what I'm gonna say: This procedure is ongoing. This young lady, the young lady, will still be questioned in this proceeding if she comes forward and wishes to testify, and her testimony will be an important part of this proceeding. Right now, at this stage, there's no reason to believe that cops have used coercive measures against the rules. It was a blockage situation, this lady was sitting on the street, street. Wolf, the police were using physical force... Exactly. ...and indeed, with the use of levers or grips, there has been a situation that I regret. I wish it didn't happen to her. Unfortunately, I would also like to tell you that since 22 July more than 50 police officers have been injured as a result of protestors. Over 50 cops. November 11th counts? I'm afraid so. And I deeply regret that too. Does that include November 11th? Madame, I ask you to remain calm. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: I'm including November 11th. But it's not like most of it's from November 11th. They're from November 11th, and they're from women's strikes. November 11th is 36, so most of them are... Your Marshal... Madame, I ask once again to remain calm. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: ...some fellow Member who just came in... You should've come sooner, my fellow Member. You weren't interested in the answer before, and now you're taking the floor. First of all, I've been listening, and second of all, I'm the author of this question, too. I ask you to continue, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration Maciej Wąsik: Let me stress one more thing: I deeply regret everyone [[♪ The bell ♪]] health damage, policemen, or persons who attended the assemblies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What consequences...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u48	Mr Honourable... Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question put by the Members... Ad vocem. There is no ad vocem mode. You're welcome... The question drawn up by Members of Law and Justice: Andrzej Gawron, Lydia Burzyńska and Mariusz Trepka on support for open-cycle pig farmers - to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The question is asked by Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u49	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We are currently having a difficult pandemic time, which affects all of us, but also to a large extent the agricultural sector. The fall in pork prices, because mostly this market I want to talk about, the imbalance in profitability, the loss of liquidity - this causes this production to be threatened. In order to reduce the risk of permanent withdrawal, the Ministry prepared an aid scheme in response to the crisis of COVID-19. But this programme, which was also part of the Rural Development Programme for the 2014-2020 period, mainly concerned producers in the closed cycle. Recently, there has been information that farmers, farmers in the open cycle, too, could count on such assistance. I would ask the Minister to explain in detail whether these will be similar rules to those for closed-cycle pork producers, or some new elements of this programme, which are rules and until when applications can be submitted. I will also ask you, Minister, because farmers report the import of pigmeat on an ongoing basis, especially from the West. With regard to the legality of this import of pigmeat, which also affects the prices on our market, the legality of this import, the quality of the meat that is imported to us - if the Minister had also said a few words about this, what the Ministry is doing in this dimension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u50	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Ryszard Bartosik, will answer this question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u51	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Producers of pigs threatened by a loss of financial liquidity due to restrictions on the agricultural market due to the outbreak of COVID-19 and who have not received aid under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 in relation to the outbreak of COVID-19 for applications submitted until 7 November this year, including those who have not submitted aid applications under the aid scheme for pig producers producing in ASF areas, shall be entitled to receive aid from national funds. Indeed, such aid has been triggered. At the moment there is a recruitment run by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. It is necessary to have at least 21 pigs registered in the livestock register marked and the flocks referred to in the rules on identification and registration of animals during the period from 1 March to 15 July 2020. Such a register of marked livestock is kept by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture in the IT system. The appropriations will be paid to agricultural holdings in a lump sum form. The aid shall be divided into three groups depending on the number of pigs kept. And so: 4.5 thousands. PLN is entitled on average to hold at least 21 pigs per day and not more than 50, 14 900 PLN per day to hold on average more than 50 pigs per day and not more than 200 and 23 800 PLN per day to hold on average more than 200 pigs per day. The aid was set at a level similar to that of the RDP Regulation, recognising that the proposed aid is complementary to the aid granted to pig producers in circulation under the RDP Regulation. Producers of pigs may submit aid applications to the county offices of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture by 20 December. It was assumed that the proposed aid could be cumulative, combined with aid granted for the conduct of other than the production of pigs in the open production cycle under the RDP Regulation. The total amount of aid may not exceed 7 000 in the zloty equivalent. Euros. According to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture, aid is foreseen for 12 669 pig producers. By 15 December 4373 applications were submitted and this is 1/3 of the expected applications. Lessons are coming along all the time. The aid was allocated PLN 175 million. As far as imports are concerned, the situation is constantly monitored. This import is not significantly increasing. According to the Chief Veterinary Officer, the situation is under control and we have not identified illegal imports. If import takes place, it is in accordance with the applicable rules. I would also like to mention, by the way, the activities of the chief inspector of the commercial quality of agri-food products, which also conducts these checks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u52	Thank you very much, Minister. The supplementary question will be asked by Mariusz Trepek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Minister has presented limits on the amounts that farmers may receive, i.e. from 21 pieces - 4,5 thousands. PLN, from 50 to 200 pieces - 14 900 PLN, over 200 pieces - 23 800 PLN. Such measures may be granted to breeders who have holdings, including those which are open. My additional questions, on the other hand, are this. What about smaller breeders with under 21 pigs? In connection with the ASF, does the Ministry of Agriculture plan to eliminate small farmers in the open system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u54	Thank you, sir. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the scheme does not cover holdings with less than 21 pigs. This is because we have modelled for aid, which is the same as in the RDP Regulation. The second reason is, of course, a limited amount of funding. As far as ASF issues are concerned, the situation is constantly monitored and there are no plans to liquidate small farms. We react where there are ASF fires. Veterinary inspectors shall implement their regulations and provisions in accordance with the principles of bioinsurance, so that such intentions do not exist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u56	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. The question prepared by Marek Rząsa, Tomasz Kostusia and Dorota Niedziela from the Civic Coalition on the lack of support for Podkarpackie farmers affected by long-term heavy rains and the state of payment of drought compensation and for the liquidation of the stock due to ASF throughout Poland. The question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The first question is asked by Marek Rząsa. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u57	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Prior to each election, the politicians of PiS were outnumbered in appealing to the ethos of the Polish village, declaring respect for the hard work of farmers. Today, when farmers are struggling with the loss of a large part of their crops as a result of weather disasters, you deprive them of the possibility to benefit from the financial assistance that they have received in such situations, and I would particularly like to emphasise, in accordance with the practice that has always been paid. I am here today to claim Polish farmers, who have experienced exceptionally adverse weather phenomena this year. As an example, I will use the Podkarpackie Voivodeship, where municipal committees estimated losses in 3348 agricultural holdings and their amount amounted to PLN 51 million. The text of the Ministry's letter addressed to the Podkarpackie Voivodeship at the end of November shows that farmers will not receive any aid. On the other hand, they are offered preferential loans, applications for deferment or distribution of contributions to the KRUS, property lease payments and reductions in agricultural tax. Minister! There is no excuse to deprive Polish farmers of help in a situation where their cataclysms have affected them. Answer me the question of whether the resort is able to bend over the fate of Polish farmers again. Please make it clear whether the PiS government will restore aid schemes for them and ensure that all Polish farmers who have suffered losses due to drought and flooding can count on real state aid or maintain their position that the PiS washes their hands from the problems of the Polish village and tells farmers: take your loans and do it yourself. And third question: Why should Polish local governments again take on the burden of commitments that should actually fall on the state budget? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u58	Thank you very much. I ask for an answer from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Richard Bartosik. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as aid is concerned, the rule of law and justice has shown great determination. Not only did we keep our promises, but we responded to the current situation before everything else. Therefore, the reaction to drought in 2018 and 2019 was the largest in history. We're talking about this year, Minister. This was done by huge funds in the form of billions of zlotys, which were sent to Polish farmers due to drought. That money was big. Never in the history of such money did farmers receive because of the cataclysms that occurred and natural changes. That help was, it was paid. We kept our commitments, which were reported during election campaigns, but also in our programs. The reaction to the greatest drought in years has been enormous. Compared to the rule of the Civic Platform, it can be proved by numbers, this assistance was much, much greater. It wasn't millions, I'll remind you, it was billions of zlotys. On the other hand, with regard to the letter to which he wished to refer, in order to accuse us of proposing preferential loans, I would like to remind you that such a proposal arises from the Council of Ministers regulation of 27 January 2015. I'm not going to refer to who was in charge at the time. We maintain this and continue to offer this kind of support to farmers. Indeed, such opportunities exist and are worth taking advantage of. They are used by farmers on the basis of a regulation issued by the Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. We don't deny it. This was the aid at the time, when it comes to the occurrence of hail, the regional submersion, and this is also the case now. In addition to this direct aid, as I would like to point out, it is possible to benefit from the resources that have been allocated to farmers due to the outbreak of the COVID pandemic. That money will be paid. We're running out of second rounds. These resources are being used. This aid is indeed dispersed because there are loans and it is possible to apply for assistance from the KRUS in connection with the payment of contributions. Another aid is possible, while COVID measures are significant measures. These farmers can also benefit from this. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture accepts proposals. I would also like to talk about other measures that are devoted to the Polish countryside, to agricultural families. For example, in recent days, Minister Grzegorz Puda has launched a program that will help agricultural families, children from agricultural families to receive computers. That's another backup. Bioinsurance aid is also granted following the occurrence of African swine fever. Indeed, there is no regional aid, and we are based on the regulations that are in place, which you have decided to adopt in 2015. You guys used to give money in the past years, you confirmed it yourself. There's a lot of help, she's distracted, but distracted doesn't mean she's small. High amounts flow to (the bell) farmers and villagers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u60	Thank you, Minister. With a supplementary question by Mr Tomasz Kostus. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u61	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You spoke for five minutes, but you didn't answer the simple question asked by my previous speaker. He asked, I would like to remind you, if this year farmers will receive aid on the basis that they received it last year. It's a simple question, simple question, Minister. On the other hand, on the next part of our questions raised, Minister: How many farmers this year, and for what amount did they not receive compensation for the destruction of the stock due to ASF? Is it true that in the last 5 years more than 120 thousand have disappeared from the Polish territory. pig flocks? Next question: How much unused funds from the Rural Development Programme will receive aid to farmers particularly affected by the COVID-19 crisis, together with the payment of drought compensation for 2019? And last question: How much money was paid in the form of drought compensation for 2019 and how much left to pay, broken down by farmers and hectares? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u62	Thank you, sir. I invite you, Minister, to answer this question, but I ask you very much to give a more concrete answer, because it is right that Members here have made a reservation that they have not received de facto answers to the questions. It's about this year. 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u63	As regards pig producers who have ceased production in connection with the existing ban on the holding of pigs or their introduction into a holding issued due to the occurrence of African swine fever, they have been able to apply for such aid. According to the restructuring agency's data at 14 December 2020, 787 applications for this aid amounted to 1675 000. PLN and 776 decisions were issued for a total amount of 1634 thousand. zł. The aid shall be implemented on an ongoing basis and shall be intended for agricultural producers who, in view of the prohibition in force on the holding of pigs or on their introduction into a holding issued on account of the occurrence of ASF in pigs pursuant to Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Law on the protection of animal health and the fight against infectious diseases ceased the production of pigs. The amount of the aid shall be the product of the average number of pigs kept on the holding during the 12 months preceding the month in which the prohibition was imposed, but not more than 50 units per pig producer, and the amount of 0,36 gr and the number of days during the calendar year in question. The aid shall be granted by decision of the head of the county office of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture competent for the producer's place of residence and shall be implemented. For the other specific questions, and there have been many, I will answer them in writing. Good. I mean, both of us and Mrs Niedziela. Both Members. No. I will also answer all the Members who are asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u64	Thank you very much. I understand that you are satisfied with the answer that you will get... In writing. ...details in writing, right? Yes, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you, Minister. Thank you very much. We're moving on to... Excuse me, three minutes' break, please. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 40 hrs. 10 min 42]] Resume session. We continue to consider questions on current issues. A question prepared by Andrzej Gawron, Agnieszka Górska and Mariusz Trepka, the Minister of Family and Social Policy, on the Solidarity Convoy of Senior Support. The question is asked by Andrzej Gawron. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u65	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Christmas is coming up, it's such a special time. In recent years, there have been other forms of help for homeless people, for those in difficulty, there have been other forms of help, but this period of pandemics has caused us to consider other ways of supporting those most in need, i.e. seniors, single mothers or homeless people. We were very pleased to hear about the initiative of the Solidarity Convoy of Senior Support, which was presented by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, where such material support is to reach seniors, and is about to reach homeless people. I have these questions. What will be the amount of this aid? How will this be organised on a national scale? And I'm asking for more details about this, because it's actually in this Christmas season. It's a very important topic not to leave these people alone with this problem. Perhaps Mr Trepka will add something here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u66	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In addition, I would like to ask: What organizations participate in this Solidarity Convoy of Senior Support? Because this is a very valuable initiative during the COVID-19 pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u68	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. The answer will be given by the Minister of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u69	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for that question. If you will allow me, I may say a little more, not only about the convoy itself, but also about the entire programme Support seniors, because this programme is part of what you also asked about, the Solidarity Convoy of Senior Support. The support programme, which we launched in October, was intended to help older people during this particular period of the fight against pandemics. Thanks to this action also the Solidarity Senior Support Corps was established. Those who want to help older people as part of their volunteer work can sign up for this program by filling in a special survey. This program works and it works in such a way that an older person - in this case we have taken into account people over the age of 70, but if the person did not meet this condition and needed help, we also did not leave anyone without help - he calls the helpline, on the helpline he gives his data, and the person who receives the phone passes this information to the municipal or urban social assistance centre who makes contact with the person who needs such support. This support can consist in shopping, other activities that are required or needed for this person. More than 18,000 today. people have benefited from this programme. What is important, volunteers who are in the Senior Support Solidarity Corps are over 10,000, i.e. very good feedback from mostly young people who want to be involved in helping, but also more than 150 youth organisations who support these activities have come forward. Here, there is a large role of both municipal and urban social assistance centres, because they are affected by the burden of communicating, sending these people and checking the volunteer so that it is a person who is sure that there are no issues that sometimes occur when it comes to older people. This program, like I said, works. As part of this programme, we have also launched the so-called. e-volunteer, i.e. the possibility of helping these older people with their full knowledge of information technology, the use of computer devices, tablets, but also so that things can be handled in different institutions by the IT system. Hence the e-voluntary, in this way we can also help. Now, back to the question you asked, I would like to say that we have also launched the Senior Support Solidarity Convoy. This is a program that aims to support the most in need of such support in the coming days, the elderly, the homeless, because here was the key to what we came from, i.e. homeless people or single mothers. We have adopted such a principle that distribution will be carried out by two organizations, which have the best network of such institutions in Poland, i.e. Caritas and the Society to Help them. St. Albert's brother. Such points will be run on a national scale of 12, and under these points all organizations that wish to participate must turn to Caritasu or the Society for their assistance. St. Albert's brother and through this path use the opportunity to provide assistance. As part of this material assistance provided by the Material Reserve Agency, we predict that there will be about 100 million tons of food. Mostly these will of course be dry goods, i.e. pasta, canned meat, fish, vegetables, flour, tea, sugar, such things as are needed and their durability is longer, but we also provide that ready meals can also be delivered to such people. So the Material Reserve Agency will transfer to these 12 points, to Caritasu and to the Society for Help. St. Brother Albert's goods will be distributed, especially among homeless people in need of such help, elderly people, or single mothers. We also know that these organizations have a good understanding of the aid in a given area in a given municipality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think this is a very good program that will help older people at this difficult time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u70	Thank you very much, Minister. Ms Agnieszka Górska with a supplementary question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Solidarity Convoy for Senior Support is a useful challenge that the Prime Minister, the Government and the Ministry are taking up at the present time of pandemics. Thank you very much for this precious initiative. I have a question: In what form will the aid be or have already been granted in the context of the convoy of support in the Radom region? This very specific question may be asked in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u72	Thank you, Member. Minister Stanisław Szwed. I invite you to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u73	Thank you very much. At the moment, I will not answer exactly how much will be in Radom, because these actions that we have taken are going through Caritas and through the Society for Helping them. St. Albert's brother. And these organizations are responsible for the first part of the distribution. So the Material Reserve Agency delivers products to selected 12 points on a national scale and if it is in Radom, and certainly is, the headquarters of Caritasu or the Society of Brother Albert, then surely there will also be these funds. It is important that NGOs take these funds from these organisations and deliver them to individuals or to individual organisations or hostels, depending on the situation. We go downstairs with this, so that NGOs can also have the opportunity to support them. That's why we took the model because he's the fastest to make right now. We have Caritas and the Society to help them. St. Albert's brother, who has the best understanding on a national scale about helping people, especially, as I said, to homeless people, people in need. This will make it easier for us to reach out to those who need this help, especially during the holidays. So that here I can only confirm that probably also, as far as Radom is concerned - I am also looking at Members of Częstochowa - there will be no problem that these funds will be delivered to these regions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u74	Thank you very much, Minister. Another question prepared by Members of the Law and Justice Barbara Bartus, Arkadiusz Mularczyk and Jerzy Polek on progress in the construction of the national road No 75 Brzesko - Nowy Sącz, so-called... Juveniles. ...Judges. The question is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u75	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! National road 75 is the only road connecting the district of Nowy Sądecki with the A4 motorway. Nowy Sącz is the third largest city of Małopolska Voivodeship, through which the road path runs to the border with Slovakia, and the volume of car traffic, including high tonnage vehicles, is very high. Therefore, the inhabitants of the whole region, not only the region of the Court of Justice, are constantly asking questions and are looking forward to building the so-called. It's all right. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay, it's okay. According to the assumptions, the courtesan will be a two-day route of accelerated traffic. The new road between Brest and Nowy Sącz, depending on the option chosen at the end, is to be less than 50 km. The interest is very large and it's not only the inhabitants of the Court of Justice, but also others, because, as I said, this road is not only going to New Snot, but it's a connection. South of Europe, too. This interest is big, but there's also a lot of fake news. In recent times, the debate has been very heated, and the government of Law and Justice is blamed: if it were ruled by the Civic Platform, we would already drive this court-martial because it was already included, because it would already be, and unfortunately there are still delays. Minister! I'm asking you to answer us, but most of all, to the residents, whether the judge was even included in the projects previously governed, whether she was really inscribed. Of course, it's also about the future. We're very interested in that. I think this is where the courtesan will be asking more details.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u76	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u77	Minister! Before you answer, I would ask you very much for information, or... We know that three options are currently being examined by the General Directorate. We know that these three options for the potential course of the trial are being considered. I would ask the Minister to present to us (the bell) what the analysis is in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u78	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you, sir. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Rafał Weber. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I'm sorry I'm late, but it's because of the time. 10 Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has convened the Government Emergency Management Team and I have been seconded to this team. On the other hand, I move to the point, to the question of your fellow Members. The national road No.75 on the section Nowy Sącz - Brzesko, popularly and commonly referred to as "deczanka," is a strategic road connecting the land with the A4 motorway and via the A4 motorway - with the whole of Poland. The judge is extremely important in terms of communication, economic and tourism development. In one opinion, it can be said that the construction of this road will undoubtedly result in both the society of the Sądecki land and all those who use it, reaching the south-eastern part of Małopolska. The judge is therefore one of the priorities of the rule of law and justice. We differ in this area from the governments of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, which treated this investment purely populistly, promising its implementation before the 2015 elections, but not providing funding for it. On paper you can write everything, paper will accept everything, but if there is no guaranteed funding for the implementation of a given investment, it simply cannot be done, and this was the case during the Civil Platform and the Polish People's Party. So this government treated the jury as an election sausage. On the other hand, the Law and Justice Government did the opposite. First of all, we secured funds for its construction. In 2017, we assigned funds to the court - almost PLN 1800 million, and this year, in June 2020, when we saw the overall increase in the cost of construction investments, we raised this amount by PLN 1400 million to PLN 3200 million. This shows that the government of Law and Justice, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, is prepared and determined to make this investment. The agreement with the contractor of the corridor study and the technical and environmental study was concluded in September 2016 and thus also during the rule of law and justice. And now a few sentences about where we are when it comes to preparing this investment. As part of the ongoing corridor study, the project company prepared four preliminary options. In 2017, 15 meetings were held with local residents and local authorities, and more than 10 thousand were received. Voices on the corridors. On the basis of the conclusions and suggestions of residents and local authorities, 26 variants of the passage of corridors were analysed, which is 1800 km of hypothetical roads. The residents and representatives of the local authorities opposed the new road near the properties in which they currently live. The designer's concessions to the municipalities and inhabitants of the locality resulting in a change in the course of the road caused conflicts with the expectations of residents of the neighbouring municipalities. So we had this obvious conflict of interest between local residents. The option, which in one place corresponds to residents and local authorities, in the other, in the other commune, was unacceptable in the neighbouring commune. And that's the cloud of the problem, that's the cloud of the ongoing work on determining the course of the judicial variant. On 15 January 2018, a meeting with parliamentarians and local government officials took place at the headquarters of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Krakow, where two variants, A and B, the corridors of the course were presented. Technical parameters, including landslides and social factors, were sought. The basic social criterion was to minimise the extension of buildings. All conflicts with natural treasures were also considered. As a result of the analysis of 26 corridor variants, two options were selected for further work on documentation. Progress on analyses was also the subject of meetings at the Ministry of Infrastructure. Minister Andrzej Adamczyk was also very active here. During the next period were performed, among others. geological studies, natural inventory, economic and social analyses, after which documentation will be prepared for the application for an environmental decision. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Further information meetings took place in 2019. After the meetings, the contractor carried out an analysis and prepared a report with reference to comments and conclusions. The report was submitted to the municipalities and posted on the website in September 2019. Okay, Minister, thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: In parallel, new routes options were agreed with authorities and gestors. Geological analyses were particularly important, due to the difficult terrain, as well as hydrological and hydraulic, which are required by the Polish Waters. Minister, thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: The analyses, opinions and subsequent corrections were completed in the first half of 2020. If your marshal will allow us to complete the sequence... You're welcome, but you'll still have the opportunity, Minister, to clarify. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: I know, one sequence. I'm gonna finish one sequence, and I'm gonna get off the stand. On 21 July 2020, the meeting of the ZOPI was held by the Kraków branch. The meeting was attended by representatives of Polish Waters, the General Headquarters, and the mayors and mayors of cities and municipalities, through which variants of routes were conducted. As a result, among all the options analysed, it was provisionally indicated that the best options for further work would be identified in the applicant's submission: option C - the most technically advantageous option, option A - alternative, local government and option F - the alternative, the most environmentally advantageous option. Thank you very much, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: In line with the conclusions of the ZOPI meeting and as a result of the subsequent arrangements, it was accepted that four options would be the subject of acceptance, where, in addition to the above-mentioned options... All right, Minister, let's stick to the time. You'll still have the opportunity to fill in the blanks. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...the fourth option will be adopted for consideration... You know the rules of response. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: ...which is a compilation of three variants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u80	Thank you very much. With a supplementary question by Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u81	Thank you, Minister. I would also like to inform you, Minister, that next Monday, a meeting of the parliamentary team will be held in the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Krakow on the matter of the court-martial, the Podłęże - Piebello railway, with the participation of the director. So that if the Minister has time, of course we would also like to invite him. This case has been the subject of our proceedings, Minister, since the fifth term of office, so please understand that we are very deeply concerned about this issue. This applies not only to the land of Sądek, Sądecczyn, but also to the land of Brest and the entire sub-region of Małopolska. We know, Minister, that there are three options: Option C as the most technically advantageous option, Option A as an alternative option that has received a positive assessment of local authorities, and Option F as the most favourable for environmental reasons. Do we already have a timetable for the next stages of work, indicating the deadlines envisaged? We know that funding is also provided. Is the Minister now able to present to us the road map of the action that the General Directorate of National Roads and Motorways will take on this matter? The Minister also spoke of the fourth option. There was also a question of the fourth option. If you could zoom in on that...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u82	Okay, thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister, and you're welcome to stick to your time, okay? Is it that important?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u83	Continuing on the subject that I had just discussed, all options will then be considered at the committee's assessment of investment projects. This body takes a decision as to the intended options, as well as the indication of the preferred option. The preferred option will be identified on the basis of a multi-criterial analysis, which will be part of the proposal for a decision on environmental conditions. This decision, issued by WDOŚ in Krakow, will indicate the final variant of the course of the court. If there are no reservations at the KOPI meeting, an application for a decision on environmental conditions may be submitted in the second quarter of 2021. This will be a key process in preparing this investment. It is important that the decision on environmental conditions is final. In this way, we will have a definite option and work can be carried out without obstacles. As I mentioned earlier, this task raises a great deal of public interest and it may happen that numerous positions may arise at the stage of the public consultation in the context of the procedure conducted by WDOŚ. Moreover, people who are dissatisfied with the future option may appeal to GDOŚ to GDOŚ, which may have a significant impact on the future timetable for the preparation and implementation of this investment. I am smiling at your parliamentarians here, to all those who care about the construction of the courtesan, so that you can talk to the public and understand that the appeals result in a shift in the implementation of this investment. I know that road investments in many cases disrupt a given space, create new social circumstances, but because of the important interest of a given region or sub-region, or part of a given country, they must be carried out and implemented. Here is a request to your parliamentarians for activity, for talks with local governments, for the public and for an awareness that this investment will be carried out when we reach the option that will obtain the final environmental decision. On the other hand, when it comes to cases that are already under way, in October this year. a contract has been signed for the design and construction of the so-called. Brest liaison, it is the northern part of the section Brest - Nowy Sącz with a length of 3 km. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The cost of works will be nearly PLN 100 million. So we can say in one sentence that we have already entered the realization phase of the courtesan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u84	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. Let's move on to the last question. The question was prepared by Members of Law and Justice: Waldemar Andzel, Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, Urszula Rusecka and Jarosław Krajewski, and concerns the development of environmental networks of self-help homes in the years 2016 The question is addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy. Mr Waldemar Andzel is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The question relates to the development of a network of environmental self-help homes in 2016 and-2020, in particular the number of beneficiaries of this type of support. Question: What is the current number of environmental self-help homes, if this number has increased since 2016, what is the number of places in environmental self-help homes and how many people currently use them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u86	I would like to ask you to supplement this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u87	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Self-help homes play a very important role in the social process, which is the participation of people with disabilities in the lives of residents of a given district. Self-help homes are a network of support for people with disabilities, people with mental disorders. They play a very important role not only because of these people, as they feel needed, the therapeutic, rehabilitation process for these people continues, but also because they are very important from the point of view of the families in which they live. Therefore, I have a question. Minister, we know that in 2015 these institutions were 760 on a national scale. The Government of Law and Justice has taken the right strategy to strengthen the network of support centres. What is the current situation with regard to environmental self-help homes, how many of these houses are (the bell), how many inhabitants are covered by this very important support for all people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u88	Thank you. The question was asked by Mrs Józef Ratchurek-Żelazko. Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, sir. [[Game in the O.R.]] Before I ask the Minister for an answer, I would like to ask your Members. I understand that you are not interested in the subject of environmental self-help homes, so move the conversations to the clowns so as not to interfere. There are few of us in the courtroom, so these voices - you have no awareness, I understand that - are spreading throughout the courtroom and are really disturbing. We accept. Let's work together and in harmony, respect each other. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, let us respect each other. It won't happen again. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to reply. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you very much for this question, because the subject is very important. Before I give a specific answer to the questions asked, I will say a few words about the functioning of environmental self-help homes, because this part is being transmitted and it is worth reminding about these issues. Especially during the pandemic period, the fight against the coronavirus environmental self-help homes are an important institution when it comes to support directed to people with mental disorders. We also have environmental self-help homes and self-help clubs. These are day-type facilities that can also organise short-term round-the-clock stays. The important thing is that environmental self-help homes provide services in individual or team self-service trainings, social skills trainings, i.e. actions that are taken to help these people in the most difficult situations. They may also benefit from meals financed by the municipalities' own tasks, e.g. as part of food aid, or otherwise. It is also worth reminding that we have four types of environmental self-help homes. Type A - for people who are chronically mentally ill. Type B - for people who are mentally impaired to a degree deep, significant, moderate, as well as for people with mild mental impairment when there are other disorders at the same time, especially neurological ones. Type C - for people with other chronic mental disorders. And a very important initiative, here I look at Minister Szczurek-Żelazko - we have introduced type D, i.e. environmental self-help homes for people with autism or associated disabilities. This is an important extension of the scope of action, because we know that such people are coming. Two years ago, three years ago, houses like this already function. Now I'm going to go to specific questions. From year to year... In 2016, there were 779 WDS, in 2019, because this is the data for today - 830, i.e. during this period 51 new centres arrived. As regards the number of participants, 2016. - more than 31 thousand in 2019. - over 34,000, which is almost 3,000. more people who have benefited from the help of environmental self-help homes. As regards self-help clubs, in 2016, 32 self-help clubs operated at 566 seats, in 2019 37 self-help clubs operated at 661 seats. So we see that in recent years there has been a lot of progression in terms of the arrival of DS as well as self-help clubs. It is worth reminding once again, of course, that the running and development of support centres for people with mental disorders is a task commissioned from the field of government administration, carried out both by municipalities and by powiats. What is also important, the Ministry of Family and Social Policy allocates funds annually from the special reserve of the state budget for the development of a network of support centres for people with mental disorders. These appropriations shall be made available according to demand. Since 2017, there is also a component in the family support programme, in which we also help environmental self-help homes. Every year we ask the voivodships to present plans for the need for resources from the special reserve for the infrastructure of environmental houses and we will also take such measures in 2021. As far as funds have been allocated so far, this was 23 million PLN in 2016 and 2020. - already over PLN 40 million, which is also a large increase in resources from the reserve for support and development of the network of support centres. Yesterday, 15 December, a letter was sent to the voivodships in order to identify again for 2021 the local authorities that want to benefit from this programme, and of course we have indicated the guidelines that must be met in terms of (the bell) this action. If I have the opportunity to speak later, I will also talk about the actions that concern COVID, because they are also important during this period.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. There's still a possibility. With a supplementary question from Mrs Urszula Ruseck. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you so much for these answers. The Minister has already mentioned the activities of the DDS during the pandemic. We know the situation is difficult. She too is difficult in environmental self-help homes. I wanted to ask you about this situation. But also, because the Minister discussed the functioning of the daily residences here, I wanted to ask about the 24-hour facilities, what is the situation with regard to the operation of these 24-hour facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u92	Thank you very much, Member. I give the floor to the Minister. Minister Stanisław Szwed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Thank you for this additional question, because this, I think, is a very important issue related to the pandemic period. We know that when it comes to environmental self-help homes, but not just clubs and round-the-clock centres, the situation is not easy because we know that these are people who need special care. As far as the first steps we took in March are concerned, these centres were suspended until mid-May. Here the decision was issued by the voivods in accordance with the law we adopted on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID. This decision was based on the Regulation. At the time, as I say, it was a decision to suspend the activities of the institutions. At the same time, the environment of those who benefit from this aid, but also the workers themselves, was signalled that this solution is very unfavourable to the people. Thus, at the next stage, we have already introduced the possibility of launching both WDS and clubs. Here the decision was made by the voivode after consulting both the heads of the units and the health department. And it worked well, because even then it was possible to take such actions on an ongoing basis, the more that all of the data we had showed that these were not outbreaks, where there are infections, which is also what we considered. Another issue was the question of ensuring the financing of activities during the suspension of their activities. We paid for this service despite the suspension of activities, knowing that without this support the SDS would not have managed, and we also fired the participants - there is a minimum fee, which we will also want to abolish in the future - classes in environmental homes self-help with this pay during the suspension period. If the DS was suspended, then the payment wasn't there either. Of course, the guidelines for environmental self-help homes were also up-to-date. It is also worth mentioning that we also passed on disinfectants. It was all action. The very good work that has taken place was the question of paying an additional welfare allowance. He is, as we remember, by December 24th, he will probably also be expanded. He was also concerned with support centres, including environmental self-help homes, occupational therapy workshops. If an adult disabled person attended this class and could not [[♪ The bell ♪]] directly participate, their carers may have been granted an additional welfare allowance. I will answer the second part of the question in writing, because I will no longer be able to, and you have changed the marshal, and I do not want to mess with the marshal here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]] But, as you can see, the marshal is here, so speak as you wish. I don't think there's much to it. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u94	No? Thank you very much. Welcome. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the state of the Polish economy and finances and the situation of entrepreneurs from such sectors as tourism, hotels, gastronomy, trade fairs and conferences, taxis and others in the era of the COVID-19 pandemic will be discussed at this meeting, which was presented by the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative and Greens. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 5 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 5 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative, Maria Małgorzata Janyska. You're welcome. I read everything nicely, didn't I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yesterday in this House there were many true and bitter words about the budget for the following year, about a budget which, instead of in this difficult economic situation, loosens fiscal rules, unfortunately loosens the sustainability of public finances and at the same time introduces new burdens. Many bitter words have been made about expenditure that is financed by the hard work of entrepreneurs, taxpayers and, unfortunately, still devoted to political propaganda and strengthening power. Many of these expenditures proved to be more important than systemic aid to entrepreneurs, which would ensure that they will return to the path of development after a period of crisis. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we need to talk about all the people who make up this budget, about all the entrepreneurs in sectors such as tourism, hotels, gastronomy, fairs, conference, taxis and related ones, because this country has wasted many of these people under the PiS regime for months. It was wasted because it wasn't in the field of system aid, but it was in the field of internal politics. The most important thing was election, world-view stuff, and taking women out on the street. These entrepreneurs are victims of the political trade fair of this power, and the power should at that time strengthen and stabilise the economy and public finances in order to ensure economic security, which in turn is the basis for the possibility of ensuring health safety. As was the economic security provided, let the last law, which was prepared in connection with the last October freezes, bear witness. In October, the gastronomic industry and its related industries were frozen. The Prime Minister promised that help would be immediate. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is December 16th and I have a question: How many entrepreneurs have received aid after almost two months? I dare say it's zero, because it was only yesterday that the president signed this bill. On 10 and 15 December, the deadline for payment of contributions for November expired, and on 30 November the deadline for submitting applications for redemption of danin ZUS-owskie expired before the rules entered into force, because this is how the State of PiS works. I also ask if you know how many companies in the trade fair industry will not receive any support from the 6.0 shield. Because that's almost 90%. Because you've made only one code number for the organizers of the fair, and the rest isn't. Because the state hasn't dealt with code based in months. PKD does not correspond to reality and can destroy the idea of helping the most disadvantaged. Speaking of the victims, about the victims of the lockdown, we're talking about specific people, about those who haven't risen since the spring lockdown of all their obligations, and they've already stood before the next ones. Many have already lost faith and ability to rebuild their businesses, just like Mr.Jarosław, a restauranter from September, who, along with his entire family, had been building, developing and running his business for decades, but could not wait, gave up and took his own life a few days ago because the state did not make it. Does the government have any knowledge of the current situation and forecasts regarding the near future, the scale of possible liquidation, bankruptcy and investment moods? Does the government even have system solutions and a long-term strategy? Did he take care of the support that is necessary, such as: periodic reduction of VAT for services at risk of industries, reduction of PIT, deferral of payments of other danins, costs due to the Treasury, stimulation of consumer decisions in support and promotion of solidarity strategies? That's what citizens do, but I haven't heard of the government. Or, for example, Did he also think that it would be necessary to exempt temporarily from banking tax the assets dedicated to lending to entrepreneurs? Don't you also notice that solutions that would be systemic, developing, expanding, should be in laws and not in regulations? After all, you are able to issue a regulation one minute before midnight, which is valid one minute after midnight on the next day. But entrepreneurs don't know anything about it. Of course, I know you're gonna say you have that possibility in your regulations. But the possibility in the regulation is not a systemic solution, it is an official authority, and the official authority is always unfair, and it cannot be expected that it will not differentiate between entrepreneurs, especially for your power, because you will differentiate between entrepreneurs if you get this official authority, just as you differentiate local governments when it comes to receiving funds to survive this whole economic crisis. [[Applause]] And last but not least, the key question. This is the key question on which any discussion at all depends: Does the government intend to change its work system at all? Does he intend to give up this legislative chaos, from day to day, from wall to wall, freezing, defrosting without any justification, without any discussion or discussion? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because if you don't, there's nothing to talk about. And no matter what miracles you talk about on the stick, miracles won't come true, but there'll be a stick. A business stick, like the one in the next year's budget in the form of the extra taxes you invented. So that people don't trust this government anymore, because this government, as an executive body, puts itself above a legislative authority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u96	Thank you very much, Member. Please respond to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology of Minister Robert Tomank. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for your vote. I'm a little nervous because it's my debut in this High House, and the subject is awfully complicated... We'll be kind. ...and many economists are at the moment concerned about how to assess the impact of COVID on the economy they are heading towards. There's very little time, so I'm going to try to synthesize the information I've been prepared for, which probably an hour wouldn't be enough to scratch it. First of all, with regard to the overall state of the economy, at the moment various Polish and foreign analytical centres estimate that the decrease in gross domestic product in 2020 will be from minus 2.9 to minus 4.5. The estimates of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology are in the range of minus 3.1. In the third quarter the year-to-year consumption increased by 1%, and this is optimistic information, while clearly as a result of the introduction of restrictions on trade in October sales decreased by 2.3%. year to year. The decrease is also noted by investments. They are, in fact, variable and highly procyclical, while the fall in the 3rd quarter was 9%. For a change, industrial production - and this is at the moment a strong side of the economy, Polish and not only Polish - has seen an increase of 1% year to year. Smaller is the construction and assembly production. The question was about indicators of optimism and assessment of the situation by entrepreneurs. As far as industry is concerned, so-called. the PMI index has remained at 50.8% for 3 months. Level 50 is stable, positive, and if we are below, then we see that entrepreneurs predict that it will be rather difficult. Foreign trade is strong, we have an increase in turnover and the current account balance for the period up to October is positive, over EUR 2 billion per plus. As regards the inflation rate - which notabene will also have to be thought over by research centres, because COVID is changing consumption and it will probably have to change its inflation basket - inflation was 3% in November. year to year, we have a slight downward trend. Next year's forecasts are optimistic. The labour market. There are a lot of indicators here, so let me just say synthetically: the labour market at the moment, despite the very dark forecasts that were after the second quarter of this year, we are likely to close the unemployment rate 6.1% in 2020. Further, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the company's performance, they are obviously worse, there is a lower profitability. There are, of course, sectors where profitability has even increased and is clearly above the return on other investments offered by the market, while the liquidity ratios in the economy have improved. And this is an optimistic message, because companies usually fall not because they have losses, but because they lose liquidity. As far as economic activity is concerned, we see that there is no breakdown in the withdrawal from economic activity. The Central Register of Economic Activity shows a decrease of 16% in the same period of the previous year, but the number of applications for business renewal is increasing. It can be said that 17% was submitted this year. Less proposals than last year's period, but the number of companies leaving business has also decreased. This data is of course, dear country, much more, while the synthetic picture, in terms of economic forecasts for next year, in my opinion - this is perhaps less important, but also in the assessment of Polish and foreign think tanks - is positive. If there are no other unexpected events, we are expected to grow to the level of 2019. I'm sorry it's so synthetic. Thank you for your attention. I'm at your disposal when it comes to questions. [[Applause]] Not about most of all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u98	Thank you, Minister. I wanted to tell you that you did quite well for the first time, so you can sleep well tonight. I don't judge this in substance, because it's not my role, but it's been fun in general. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a dilemma to share with you. Two minutes. Okay, but before you yell, Member, listen. There are 41 candidates for discussion. If we think they have two minutes, the last 11 people will not speak. That's why I'm offering you one and a half minutes. As you know, I'm not interrupting, but at least you'll have a number that will show you that you have to go to shore. Okay? Therefore, we set 1.5 minutes for the question. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u99	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Minister! The Platform Member probably intended to discredit the government's actions in her speech, but rather proved that they were quick and measurable. [[Civic Platforms]] The Government of Law and Justice in a world pandemic situation as soon as possible prepared instruments of support for Polish entrepreneurs, employers and employees. The effectiveness of the government's actions confirms the hard data. To date, more than 165 billion PLN have reached Polish companies. 6 million jobs have also been saved. In comparison, I will only add that the anti-crisis packages proposed by the Platform Government in 2008 and 2009 are about 9 billion PLN. The prepared anti-crisis shields and their subsequent amendments have allowed support to many industries. Yesterday, President Andrzej Duda signed another shield instrument for industry aid to companies - shield 6.0. This is support for 40 industries and assistance for 270 thousand. entities. We have another shield worth PLN 35 billion. Nevertheless, the opposition is very critical of her. He's only doing it officially, as we know. Unofficially, we could hear the leaders of the two groups praised the government's solutions that serve businesses and workers. Minister! How to assess the scale of aid from crisis shields against other countries of the European Union in a perspective [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish financial opportunities? [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u100	Thank you very much. Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition, but I didn't have to add it. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Book fairs, trade fairs, tourist fairs, monument conservation fairs, arms fairs - this is a Polish brand. We won the market, we were the leader in Central and Eastern Europe, we promoted Poland, Polish entrepreneurs. About 600 international fairs were organized annually. It's about a big fair that's been visited by 3 million people. From day to day, these companies were in agony. Because of the pandemic they were closed at the earliest and will actually be opened at the latest. They will probably only be able to function normally in the autumn of next year - we know how long the process of preparing fairs takes, and also companies that are to take part in fairs must also start to function normally. About 60,000 have already lost their jobs. persons. This includes related industries, i.e. hotels, caterers, promotions, publishers. In fact, by September the losses in this industry amounted to PLN 1 billion. Government solutions so far do not take into account aid for this industry. Whether the companies will return to normal business depends on whether we help them. I've spoken to the trades reps. I do not know if you are talking to them, but if we do not help this industry, it will not only be the fall of the trade fair in Poland, but also the chance for foreign companies to take over them, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what they're waiting for. To conclude, I wrote a statement to the Prime Minister on this matter in November. It's been 21 days. I didn't get the answer to that question. I hope the Minister will answer our questions today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Parliamentary Club Left. We're connecting. Good morning, there you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u103	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Minister's response was not on the subject, because current information is not about macroeconomic indicators, it is not about how we fall out in some statistics against other statistics. These are specific people, specific industries, specific entrepreneurs and their specific situation. In the current information, in the chaos, there was a case of entrepreneurs from Wielkopolska, from September near Poznań, who committed suicide. A person who was successful in the restaurant and hotel industry committed suicide only because there was no state aid that was effective. The Left Club has been asking for such assistance since the start of the pandemic. It is about simple tools that have been launched in Europe and have not been launched in Poland. Mrs Joanna Borowiak from PiS spoke about things that are not true and false. Polish entrepreneurs did not receive basic aid, i.e. cover or suspend fixed costs. The Left Club has been asking for this from the very beginning. Why did the landlords (the bell) in the shopping malls get a statutory suspension of rent payments and no other companies received such a statutory suspension of rent payments? Credit payments should also be covered or suspended. It's eating companies that haven't gotten one of those old shields. Miss, your time is running out. Thank you. So, I would like to remind you of the sectors that have not been assisted at all and on which the Left also appeared in the adoption of the last shield, while our proposals have not been taken into account. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Borowiak, with corrigendum. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u105	Dear Marshal, High Seym! It is a pity that the Left Member's voice has caused us to take away the time set aside for the next people who wanted to ask you a question at this point. Madame, I cannot ignore your words. I have a request that you do not review the statements of the Minister or Members, because it is from this speaker that we are to tell the truth. Why? And you're reviewing it. Madam President, if for Mrs Lewis more than PLN 165 billion of support for entrepreneurs, if it is nothing for Mrs Lewis to save 6 million jobs, then I would like to congratulate you very warmly. If the industry shield 6.0 for the Left Member provides support for more than 270 000. that is nothing if for the left-wing Member another shield (the bell) of 35 billion PLN of support is also nothing... Member, really, please come down and think real.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u106	Thank you very much. I think that it is that one Member has such an opinion on the matter and another on the matter. That's what the Sejm is for, to exchange these views. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am a Member of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, located centrally, with great tourist advantages. Every day I meet representatives of event, gastronomic or tourist industries. Tourism, I would like to remind you, it is not only Tatras, the sea, but also Kujawy with beautiful Gopl, monuments and attractions Shooting, Inowroclaw, Bydgoszcz, Znina, Kruszwica, Tucholi. Average income of the tourism and catering industry is currently only 10% pre-pandemic influences. The event industry, the concert industry, is a complete collapse. The same applies to transport companies, taxi drivers. Despite the partial opening of the gallery, you can see in them how many shops are being liquidated. One of the companies in my district that manufactures furniture for shops, the offices record huge losses, there has been a drop in orders by about 90%. So what are the ideas for helping all these industries this time? First of all - and I call for this - non-refundable aid for taxi drivers, restaurants, hoteliers, event industry, and it is not a small 5,000. zł, but this is also about the commitment of EU funds, as well as the exemption from taxes, because without this help these industries simply will not survive, and it seems that the pandemic will stay with us even longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u108	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Ursula Rusecka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u109	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I was hoping for a really substantive discussion, because the subject is important and difficult. I have therefore listened to the comments of the rapporteur, as well as your marshal, and I conclude that you do not know this help at all, which is by the Polish government... We know very well, Member. No, you do not know, because what you have asked is in the shield, your marshal. This is, uh, sorry, shield 6.0. And I am not surprised that you do not know the problems or the amount of aid that is contained in this shield, because during the work on this shield, your colleagues were dealing with street brawls, they wanted to interrupt the procession. This is a scandal, really. That's what it looked like. Let's get to the point. Let's get to the point, sir. Now, let me put it this way: when it comes to crisis management, the Law and Justice government has really passed the test. And here I'm just going to quote some dry data, maybe I'll give you one economic information, because I'm not going to make it anymore: public debt, when you guys were done with governments, was 52%. , and after 2019.45.7%. [[Applause]] And what's most important... And now? We'll see now. Now? I'm telling you, at the end of September, the budget deficit was 4.5%. income, and after September 2015, when there was no crisis, lockdown (Bell), 500+, 300+ or thirteen pensions, when you ruled, the deficit was 14,8%. We in crisis - 4.5%. Debt or deficit? And these are your governments and your understanding of economics. Thank you. But you're full of shit. We've never had a 14% deficit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u110	Thank you, thank you very much. I have one comment to make to the Member of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. You have been kind to say that Members have dealt with street brawls. Yes. I just wanted to say that I've been involved in this brawl many times and... We know. There's nothing to brag about. Even you beat up a cop. Yes, ma'am. And I wouldn't... And I have a polite request, for this is how I imagine the Seym, that we should not offend one another. I participated in marches of women fighting for their rights, not in street brawls. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel... Can I ad vocem, in one sentence? Take it easy. No, ma'am. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's amazing how far-missing the opinions of the PiS messengers and the entire government are about the level of support with the opinions of the people who run the business. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, I spoke with Mrs Iza of the Vistula, who has been successfully running the apartment business for 15 years. And I'm with Mrs. Krysia. That's right, you can check, I'll give you all the data, ma'am. There's drama. Mrs. Iza doesn't have any help, and she doesn't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. Ladies and gentlemen, not only are you not helping, but this chaos that exists in this aid... once according to the PKD, where you support 30, 40 industries. A lot of industries, businesses are losing PKD because of it. Mr. Wojciech of the Vistula has PKD 5520, runs the residence. He didn't get any backup, and he had police control three times. This is the support for the tourism industry. The Beskid Śląski, Beskid Żywiecki, Wisła, Szczyrk, Zawoja support me. These people are really begging for help. And we're meeting about this help. Today we submitted a draft bill to the Marshal's staff, which not according to PKD will help, will not depend on the amount of support, and we gave the predictable time horizon of this support, from October to March, because people need to know, running a business, what will happen tomorrow. You don't plan a business from one minute to the next, an hour to the next. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't think the ladies have ever made a dollar into their account, which is why you don't know it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have such a hot request, especially for the Law and Justice, that we no longer pass through these historical... You've started. ...numbers, because, in short, the Polish entrepreneur has nothing. The truth is that it is your duty to take care of the Polish economy, because today you are simply ruling. Therefore, you do not do grace to introduce different mechanisms, and I assume that we are discussing here how to improve these mechanisms so that they really reach more entrepreneurs. I would like to point out that the economy is functioning in such a way that these are connected vessels. So in short, if someone doesn't use the restaurant or if they're closed or not using the hotel, so how many customers of this hotel have no income, so they're also out of operation. Therefore, today in my opinion, if we are talking about all these instruments, the mistake is that we choose PKD depending on who shouts louder and says that there is no financial resources. That's when we throw in the PKD. And on this lockdown or quasi-lockdown all entrepreneurs suffer. Therefore, my question is: Shouldn't the experiences of other European Union countries be exploited and one simple formula of aid, i.e., in short, equalisation (The Bell) of the level of income of each entrepreneur be considered. up to 70% as it is in France or Germany, year by year. And then it gets to the subject of these fixed costs, all those PKDs and other things. It's very easy to calculate. So the question is, shouldn't we really introduce such a simple solution to supplement the income of a given trader to a certain level from the previous year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u115	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Simple solutions are best, this is an old maxim - not only old, but also tested. Why is it that the government will not attempt to build further shields in this way, especially given that when the aid is announced from the next shield, new economic activities that are not included in it and are therefore affected are reported. We just had a big protest from the laundry industry. He also reports to me, for example. The cleaning industry, not the specialist industry, the regular one. From Rawa Mazowiecka or from Tomaszów, among others. industries in which people earn their living by producing catering caravans. Turns out they're not included in the aid shield either. Doesn't the government think that it should go to such a simple rule that the aid is due to all those economic activities that have a certain loss? Then there would be no problem with different divisions resulting from PKD. That is why we are also proposing to the government, asking whether it does not want to apply another principle which entrepreneurs are demanding, namely that it be a voluntary ZUS to reduce VAT for gastronomy to 5%. And the general rule: no new taxes until the end of the pandemic, or at least for the next two years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm going to start by calling on words that shouldn't fall down in this room, and they sounded out of the mouth of a messenger of the opposition, that the government of Law and Justice promises miracles on a stick. Ladies and gentlemen! The pandemic period is such a time that has embraced the entire globe. And we shouldn't go through words like that and capitalize on harm, health, people's lives. That's how you came to power. Ladies and gentlemen! The government of Law and Justice, not promising, but implementing, introduced the so-called. support for the tourism industry and Polish families who, as a result of the pandemic, may have lost or had reduced budget revenues - he introduced a tourist voucher. It is a one-off benefit in the amount of 500 PLN, which receives each child up to 18 years of age and, in addition, if there is a child... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ma'am, allow me not to argue with you from the podium, and you, sitting in the bench with me. My one and a half minutes is for questioning. And now I'm going back. This bon can be paid for, among other things... No, it's a debate, not questions. Member, let us respect each other. This bon can be paid for, among others. rest, both stay in the hotel... Hotels are closed. ...as well as rest in a different form. But this tourist voucher doesn't apply only at this point. Minister! Tell me if it's a bon [[♪ The bell ♪]] is it being implemented? How does it affect, what does it do, how do you evaluate this form of support for the tourism industry? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u118	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I'm disappointed in what you said on the whole line because the questions from people in the industry are completely different. [[Applause]] You haven't answered any questions. I would like to say that the tourism industry brings our country 7% gross domestic product. Almost 1 million inhabitants, Poles, live in this industry. Very important activity. Meanwhile, tourist destinations, where tourist services are the main source of income, are in a dramatic situation. For 3 months they have no way to pay ZUS, credit, pay employees, pay for energy and cover other costs. Talking about shield six all the time is really a big misunderstanding. She doesn't deal with these problems in any way. But I'm not talking about the sixth shield. People want to work. Tourist season gives, brings the biggest income. Such a city as Karpacz will lose 200 million PLN this year, similarly to Szklarska Poręba and others. They want to work. The Czechs opened the season, the Slovaks opened the season, and the government does not respond to requests and petitions of our entrepreneurs. When's the government gonna answer that? It's a topic for discussion, not covering with a hole in the shield. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u121	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the whole agrotourism industry. You've forgotten the agrotourism industry in this shield, another shield, there's been no help before. There's a big problem. Many farmers, who for many reasons had to put out agricultural production, were carried out by advisors, by representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, that because of the location, I am talking about the Podlaskie voivodeship, where many such agrotourism farms were created... Biebrzy Valley, near the Białowieża Forest - that's where these farms operate. Today they stand empty, today there is no help for them, and farmers, when they ask the Ministry of Agriculture, are referred to the Ministry of Development and, of course, from the Ministry of Development to the Ministry of Agriculture. The ball's still bouncing off. It's Christmas, spring break, and these quarters will still be empty. There is much talk about Podhale, there is little talk about Podlaskie voivodships, warmińsko-mazurskie voivodships, and many such accommodations have been created in recent times. Maybe it's time to think about them, because if you don't, they're gonna go bankrupt one by one. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We live in a difficult time of pandemic. The government has put in the last six shields at the moment. Mr. President signed it. This shows that the Government of Law and Justice responds to the needs of entrepreneurs, social. But I would like to remind you historically that it was thanks to the Government of Law and Justice that such aid schemes have been launched for our families as 500+, 300+, 13th retirement. Back then, in 2015, we heard that the money wasn't meant to be for this. We have a pandemic right now. We have resources, we continue to maintain these aid programs for Polish families, because the family is the basis in Polish society. 2 billion for public television. Ladies and gentlemen! All these needs that entrepreneurs report, the government responds, you can say, from day to day. Only when the state doesn't speak from this speaker, it's somewhere in front of the speaker, and it will catch the microphone, you say that these shields are good for society, for entrepreneurs. Prove it. I think that the Polish government, headed by the Prime Minister, will not leave the entrepreneurs in need and will support them as much as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Marshal, let me ask you one question. Is the second wave of pandemics threatening us with rising unemployment and massive redundancies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Enough sugar.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u124	Thank you very much. Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Government decision: we close restaurants, pubs, hotels, swimming pools and fitness centers. The affected companies receive: 100% 3 months rent, 100% salaries and charges. For entrepreneurs who listen to us, unfortunately, I have bad news. This help for the companies I told you about is not a decision of the Polish government. This is how the economy helps the Czechs. Bravo. Quick, straight and fair. Meanwhile, the so-called. The shield 6.0 lay in the Seym for over 1.5 months. What do you think these people were supposed to eat at that time? Do you think they have these warm jobs in the Treasury companies like your families? No, they had nothing to eat for a month and a half because of you. The restaurant isn't just the owner. These are waiters, chefs, cleaning people. Those are the ones who provide them with meat, bread and vegetables. These are the washing machines that wash their tablecloths. For the Platform, poverty was to continue. In fact, what PiS is doing for the Polish economy is like repairing a Rubin TV in the PRL. You should've knocked him from the top once, once from the side, and he started to work, but for a short time. Exactly the same way you are helpless to the economy in crisis and so are amateurs. On the other hand, my kind advice to the debut minister: Minister, second time less economic gibberish, [[♪ The bell ♪]] more empathy for people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u127	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! By adopting the 6.0, you have once again divided society and the economy. Without in-depth analysis, you pointed out PKD, sectors that you believe are affected by the effects of the epidemic, and those which, although banned, have been ignored as a result of the closure or limitation of the functioning of the industries. 12 thousand registered in Warsaw. legal taxis. 1431 - you probably know - ZUS, 500.700 PLN - corporation, 30% higher insurance, service, depreciation. This country isn't just 49. 32.Z, ladies and gentlemen, these are loans, families. Today, in this situation, they massively resign from their business, although in order to conduct their business honestly, they had to gain licenses, pass a topography exam. And the Polish state today, ladies and gentlemen, what do you do? Frost lex Uber. The money goes to Ireland, to the Netherlands, and there are no taxes left in the Polish budget. Minister, you know this, and you're prolonging the entry of the lex Uber. Taxi drivers expect lex Uber to enter into force from 1 January and not once again move it. Ladies and gentlemen! The PKD cannot be divided in this way. Loss. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Loss is the element that should determine which of these industries should be supported. Once again, I ask that January 1st finally enter this law, which you translate every moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u129	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Pandemic surprised the whole world, not just Poland. Many more developed, more resourceful economies have unfortunately managed far worse than our home country. Thanks to the actions of Law and Justice, support for entrepreneurs has been implemented very quickly. You don't see it, but the world has to be judged as it is. Over 165 billion PLN went to the Polish economy to save more than 6 million jobs. This is a value that we should all value together. Of course, we would like to help everyone, but the possibilities do not allow this support to be dedicated to each industry individually. Ladies and gentlemen, there are certain limitations that do not allow everyone to be supported in the way you speak. I would also like to emphasise that, thanks to the intensive efforts of the current government, our economic indicators are one of the best in Europe and even in the world. As far as unemployment is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, we have the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. We are in second place when it comes to the lowest increase in unemployment. The production value is also very high. So I think these government actions that have been taken bring [[♪ The bell ♪]] specific impacts. But I have a question for the Minister: What are the basic restrictions on sectoral aid to sectors affected by the crisis? Will the aid, however, not obscure market relations? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u130	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Do you prove with this discussion that you are completely separate from reality? [[Applause]] She said that the tourism industry had received a travel voucher, but she forgot to add that the hotels are closed. The bonus can be used maybe in the summer, and by then a lot of owners in this industry will simply close their business. This is the chaos in an economy you can't or won't understand. Mr. Janusz, the owner of a few diners, came to me to fight for his entrepreneur's rights, because in gastronomy you are making the same chaos. You're gonna force the owners of the diners that don't work today to trade cash registers for online fiscal cash registers by the end of the year. But why should they bear any costs if their points today generate some minimum income, from which there is no great wealth for the state, because for entrepreneurs it is hardly enough? That money's not really gonna have anything to record. We have tabled a bill that removes this obligation, but you who are separated from the reality of politicians who have families in companies of the Treasury, of course again do not understand such fundamental issues that it is not necessary today. Personal drama [[♪ The bell ♪]] entrepreneurs from September, who were already mentioned here today, this is unfortunately the saddest bill in terms of your shields and help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb on the link. He's either on the link or he's not. There isn't. There isn't? Waiting for the Member, I will ask Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz from the Civic Coalition... And Mr Marek Polak? Mr Marek Polak is displayed. If you'll come with me, we'll lead together. Imagine that the Member, in a polite, kind and sympathetic way, sent me a text saying that he was resigning. Now what? Ha, ha, ha! Well, Mr. Marshal will now inform you of that. Ma'am, I am very pleased to inform you, because I'm simply very good at working with you. Thank you very much. All right. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u133	I'll take this opportunity. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, I would suggest that Members of the Law and Justice go down to earth, abandon these great numbers and ministerial stools and listen to the people downstairs, [[Applause]] those people who run their businesses. Ladies and gentlemen! She wrote to me on 29 October, so before the second reading so-called. Shield 6.0, Mrs. Monika of Jędrzejów. She wrote that since September 2020 she had switched jobs for a fitness and photography company, and it would seem that she should receive this aid because her PKD is in this shield. But she didn't start a company until this year, and unfortunately she won't benefit from it. Tell me if it is or not. It's not. It will not benefit, because only companies that were created until November, but last year, can benefit from this aid, because by that time the decline in revenue can be compared. Mrs. Monica wrote to me yesterday that she was devastated that it was unfair that she was hoping that you would be wise, because it's inhumane to differentiate people like that. We prepared an amendment to the second reading, then we voted on the Senate resolution and we voted in the Chamber - three times you rejected the amendment to support those companies that were created this year, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or at least the ones that were created after November last year. You were deaf. So that's what your help looks like. Get really down on the ground. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u134	Thank you very much. I will apologize to Mr John Łopata because Mrs Anna April asked for the floor because she has a committee meeting, so... I'd love to, Marshal. Let's be nice to each other. Member, please. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, I will stress.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u135	Thank you, Marshal. Thank you. Minister! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! We have been hearing for a few days that successive economies are closing, that Europe is actually pulling a brake, because it has turned out that countries far better developed also have huge problems with the coronavirus and the epidemic. As we know, ladies and gentlemen, Germany has already taken the first place in the third decade in Polish exports and imports of goods and services. The foreign demand for German goods and services containing the Polish component was responsible for nearly 29% of Polish exports to Germany. Polish exports are extremely strongly linked to the German economy. Minister, I have a question: how is it going to translate into our economy right now, just for export, this announced German lockdown, full lockdown? Do you plan to analyse which companies cooperate with German entrepreneurs and whether it will be possible to consider whether or not to support those companies whose activities are unfortunately strongly linked [[♪ The bell ♪]] With the German economy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u136	Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland. I cordially invite you and apologize for changing the order.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u137	Thank you very much, Marshal. I've done your request with pleasure. And I'm gonna ask you, may I? Yes, you can. All these political tours, personal tours, I think, neither now nor ever have any effect. Because I am deeply convinced that both this question, the content of this question and, above all, the answer are of interest to Poles. Poles, who maybe, and even certainly now listen to us and expect a specific answer. They probably listen, because most companies unfortunately are locked up and have more time to track what's going on around them. Unfortunately, things aren't going well. You're talking about the next shield, the number six shield, and there's another one coming in immediately who's reporting another industry. I will also report at the moment the industry that I was asked to apply for, namely the field of secondary education, PKD 85. 52.Z. I'm the only one who knows that this isn't the end, that the next ones are coming. So it really seems that - the colleagues here said it, it has already sounded in this room - another key, not PKD. We can't... The whole PKD directory should be entered, because today is the situation. You can't do that. It must be objective, but general, like, I don't know, revenue year by year. You've got to take it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] an example from other countries and such a system to introduce so that we still do not say that another industry is eliminated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u138	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Boris from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u139	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and Messengers of Law and Justice! Minister! You really need to get out of the ministerial office, out of these new cars, go to the south of Poland, talk to the owners of guesthouses, hotels, restaurants, of which 80% does not work - does not work, just industries have been de facto closed. Each joint and several state that closes industries during the pandemic gives an equivalent of lost benefits, or at least covers business costs. [[Applause]] Shield 6.0 is a hole shield. The owners of guesthouses, hotels have no possibility of getting help. That is why we have prepared a bill which, based precisely on the criterion of loss of revenue, provides security for all those who today stand on the brink of bankruptcy. Employees don't get paid for Christmas. The situation is dramatic. That is why we demand that our bill saving the tourism and tourism industries, although not only, be proceded at the next session of the Sejm on Thursday and Friday. What is happening today in the peri-Tourist industries is a great drama. These people didn't deserve the fact that it wasn't their fault that they shut down the possibility of doing business. In this law there is also a shift in credit, leasing payments, so that most of the catering and tourism industries operate. That is why we are calling for this bill to be adopted. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's the voice of people who do tourism. Help Polish companies survive, since you are constantly talking about how patriotic you are. I'm handing over the bill to you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u140	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Milczanowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Even if you do not know how you curse this reality and tell us to come down to earth, we tread very firmly on the ground in the sense of responsibility, in the sense of responsibility for the state. At the time of the crisis and the pandemic of Coronavirus in Poland, export of goods for the first time - and you know this data very well - exceeded PLN 100 billion and amounted to PLN 104 billion 300 million, i.e. it was higher by 9.5%. than in the corresponding month of 2019. This was thanks to anti-crisis shields and money, various kinds of support that went to our native Polish entrepreneurs. Minister! What is the current situation in foreign trade? Are our exporters still driving the Polish economy? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And above all, Mr. Minister and Mr. Messengers of the PiS! What you're saying is really from outer space. You sound like you're living on another planet. Pandemic really destroys the Polish economy and really hundreds of thousands of entrepreneurs have huge problems. They lose their income, they lose their income, they fall or they're on the verge of bankruptcy. Some... Like a platform. Government restrictions and a second wave of pandemics have been imposed on each other. In sectors such as catering, tourism, hotel, transport revenues fell to 30% of what was last year. I really know this environment very well. I wanted to ask specific questions because your help is being introduced late, it's chaotic, it's unpredictable and uneven. Why could it not have been possible to introduce the criterion of a decrease in revenue rather than PKD codes when adopting the bill? Everybody tells you that. Thus, you exclude taxi drivers or laundry services, because these PKD codes do not exist, and these are sectors that work in connection with tourism. School shops. Why, since there is a lockdown in many industries, already December, does the aid apply only to November? Why isn't there a regulation for December? It's mid-December, the industries are closed, the regulations are not. Why do we still know so little about PFR 2.0? It's supposed to be in January, but the details are missing. Why did you exclude new companies - this was already raining from here - that were created in 2020. Why aren't credit solutions working? So what if, theoretically, they are, as in the case of BGK, if the banks say no, we're not gonna give you credit because you're a threatened industry on the red list, the BGK doesn't guarantee that it's safe? It's just a theory. Why aren't you listening to specialists, Professor Simon, who says: we already have 4, 6, or maybe 10 million health professionals, people who could easily be put into business and who could pay? One last question: Why don't you let me stretch my break? We all know that some people avoid bans, arrive in one week, and so they could come for 10 weeks and help the industry operate in the right sanitary regime. Get down on the ground and start helping Polish companies. Thank you. [[Applause]] Let me do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Wargock, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? There it is. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, on both sides, there are appeals to get down to the ground, so why don't we go down to the ground for a little bit? Let's say together that we're in a particularly difficult situation, that we have a COVID pandemic, that it's not the fault. the government is that part of the economic departments cannot work, but these are the effects of the pandemic that have occurred in the world, in Europe, in Poland regardless of any government in any country. We have already had a few months of struggle with this disaster, and we can also draw our own conclusions. The first stage: full lockdown, 2 weeks shut down all of Poland, we achieved a positive effect. There's been an increase in the incidence. People could have left. We could have been freezing off the departments of the economy. Tourism wasn't bad on vacation, you know that. It's the hillbilly from Podhale who says, "These dukes are us, we've gathered a little. It's gonna be harder. Transport - zero, city hotels - zero. Let me finish. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have to wonder what's next. Because where the budget could help, where there was money to support the economy, where we did everything we could, as part of our financial capacity. I mean, it wasn't. Today we have the opportunity to get out of this crisis by means of vaccination. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have questions for the Minister. What about the National Reconstruction Plan? What support can the Polish economy have in connection with the new EU perspective, with the new money that is needed both in Poland and in Europe and around the world? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u146	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Parliamentary Club, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u147	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This help given to Polish entrepreneurs can be described with words: not enough to live, too much to die. And the question is, what's next? Because the fact that we're going to live with the epidemic for months is known. After all, we all know that it will be a long time before the group resistance of our society is created. So I ask you, what's next? Do you have any plans for another wave of pandemics, for the absence of a drop in the number of diseases, and perhaps for an increase in the number of diseases, that mortality will be slightly higher? Are there any more lockdowns coming up, lockdowns? What can Polish entrepreneurs expect? They ask each other every day: Will something change tomorrow, or maybe the day after tomorrow, or maybe next week, if this help is enough for me, can I maintain employment? Minister! Have you noticed an increase in the insolvency of companies, the number of restructuring proceedings initiated concerning these companies? Do you have any predictions about the increase in the scale of the bankruptcy of Polish companies, whether it will happen now, maybe in the spring, or if you do not foresee such a thing and state support will not be needed? And if needed, how will this support look like, what will it be, what will it be, what tools, what instruments? I would also like to ask for new, young companies, which were created after 30 November and were unlucky that their new business - in which they invested money and in which they used leasing, hired people - started during the pandemic period, so their help unfortunately does not include. Will you change this in the forthcoming legislative amendments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u148	Thank you very much. We have managed to get a link with Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, whom we have sought. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Before I go to the question, I would like to remind Members of the Civic Platform of their concern for the so-called. State-owned enterprises. I will remind you of February 2015 and how the Civic Platform at Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa acted. First of all, the police used water cannons - it was February, it was freezing - in relation to protesters. Don't lie to me, man. It was especially about saving the mining industry. That's the idea of the economy right there. Rubber bullets were also used against protesters. A lot of people got hurt. Unfortunately, they didn't want to talk about supporting this industry... Don't lie, he'll send, don't lie. The truth hurts. On the contrary, they tried to bury the industry. Today, when it comes to support for the tourism industry, that the aid received by the tourism industry is above all aid from PFR - 5 billion and 4 billion are: tourist voucher, parking voucher, exemption from the Social Security Office. The September Act also gave the possibility to obtain feedback from the Fund. This applies primarily to organized events. The next package of support for the tourism industry is being prepared. I have a question for the Minister about the tourism industry. Which industry suffered the most, and how was the tourism industry supported? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u150	Thank you very much. Is Mrs Barbara Dziuk in the Chamber? Because I don't see a Member. And I always pay attention. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] No. He's destroying teachers in his district for now. And Mr Matusiak got his son a job at KGHM. But I have a favor to ask. This will not help us in our deliberations if we insult Mrs Barbara Dziuk. But who insults you? Who insulted you? Members of the Platform. Absolutely. Monika Wielichnowska from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Wielichowska. Ma'am, I'm just sorry, ma'am. Wielichowska, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It takes months when we are struggling with COVID, with the pandemic that the authorities had already cancelled, during which the authorities sent Poles on vacation and sent their children to school on 1 September and at that time rejected all responsible amendments of the opposition, amendments and draft laws aimed at supporting the fight against the coronavirus, real support for entrepreneurs. The economy is dying in front of us, the victims of Coronavirus are not only those who have been infected with the virus, but also entrepreneurs. Just get out of the limousine or stop visiting empty - full of propaganda instead of patients - National Hospital and talk to entrepreneurs, just as I am talking to Mr.Ark from the Silesian Party, with Mrs.Anna from Kłodzka, with Mr. Wojtek from New Rudy, with Mr. Adam from Dzierżoniów or with Mrs. Kasia from Ząbkowice. Entrepreneurs, because the state does not support them enough, are not able to save companies that have built their entire lives. They tell us about it every day. They don't know how to avoid bankruptcy today. Today it is already known that the consequences of the pandemic will have consequences for many years. Does the government have a strategy or a plan or a little plan? Because entrepreneurs are living in uncertainty, predicting bankruptcy and bankruptcy, and they already know that they won't pay a lot of employees before Christmas, because every week after that, [[♪ The bell ♪]] even every day increases the risk of liquidity loss by companies. The lack of revenue while raising fixed costs will result in the insolvency of many companies, because without the income of the entrepreneur they will not pay rent or lease instalments, they will not pay the loan instalments, and above all they will not pay salaries to their employees. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u152	Thank you very much, Mrs Monica Wielichowska. Yes. And I invite Mr Waldemar Andzel, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u153	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Law and Justice talks to voters, talks to entrepreneurs. I'm talking to Mr. Ark and Mr. Matthew, the entrepreneur. We're talking. He's lying. Only the Civic Platform lies. Don't bother here in this room. Ha, ha, ha! Law and Justice walk hard on the ground. The Polish economy is developing very well against the backdrop of the economy of Europe as a whole. We saved 6 million jobs, helped companies - this small, large and medium - for over PLN 163 billion. We have one of the highest economic growth despite the difficult situation during the COVID-19 pandemic. I have a question for the Minister: What is industrial production so important for the generation of Polish GDP? What does Polish exports look like, where growth is recorded, and this is a big increase? On what basis is the belief that growth is expected in 2021? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u155	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for the correct accent: Grammar, I am respectful and proud of your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u156	It's from high school, I'll be honest. Mrs Leszczyn said that you are helpless to the economy in crisis. I'll tell you more: you're helpless to the economy at all. And the truth is, you promise pear on the willow. Ha, ha, ha! I don't know if you remember this slide: these are your 2020 targets. If you did it well, maybe today there would be no discussion, maybe the Polish economy would be in much better shape. Thank God for four years... Only three examples, because that's probably enough time. Large and medium-sized companies were supposed to be over 22,000, and the latest data from the CSO shows that there are 18,000 of them, which is 300 less than when you started ruling. Reindustrialisation - in fact it was enough not to disturb, because the growth trend for industry in Poland has continued since the beginning of the 21st century, but after a few years of your governments, the share of industry in GDP fell by 1.5 percentage points. Somehow it's hard to call it a success. Capital for development, i.e. the increase in investment in relation to GDP, was to have a level of 25% as usual: at the end of 2019 this indicator was 18 percentage points. Please note that these are pre-pandemic data. Way to go, y'all. For pity's sake, I'm giving you pre-pandemic data. I can think of a quote from Budka, but not from Boris Budka, but from Budki Suffler: [[♪ The bell ♪]] It wasn't supposed to be like this, it wasn't like that at all. [[Applause]] That's how you rule. Rainbow bridges don't dream much. Thank you. [[Applause]] I think Mr Budek will also have a moment when they will quote him from the Parliamentary Speaker. So that we wish this to Mr Budka. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We wish him well. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many words have been said here: we do not walk on the ground, we do not walk among people. We live like a country out there in their places, and businessmen turn to us with their problems and report problems. So that it is not that we see no problems faced by entrepreneurs, especially the tourism industry at present. Not further than yesterday when he called me, as you say, you name it, Mr. Roman, and he talked about his troubles and what actions he took in connection with it, and he asked us what we were doing. But the pandemic will eventually end and I have a question to ask the Minister: Does the Ministry envisage legislative changes to facilitate business activity already under the conditions when the COVID ends? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u158	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u159	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that we must all start by asking ourselves whether this shocking failure of the government in the case of pandemics, this chaos, this uncertainty that the government is introducing, can be justified by governments from 8, 10, 15 or 30 years ago, or should the PiS Members come here and apologize to the Poles for their government, for introducing such chaos, such uncertainty and destroying the state. To the opposition. It destroys the economy, destroys people who have worked hard their whole lives to build their own business. [[Applause]] For all the irresponsible actions you're holding with your votes. First thing - PKD. You insisted on this PKD just to use it propagandaally. Meanwhile, there are sectors such as cross-border Polish-Czech, Polish-Slovak cooperation, which do not have PKD. But you don't understand. You don't understand because you've never worked in the economy. Today this industry is dying, but you can't help them. And what the PiS government is doing in the tourism industry, especially those entrepreneurs who operate in the tourist regions: in Beskidy, Vistula, Szczyrk, Ustroń, Brenna, Bystra, is simply a political crime. First, the PiS government introduces the tourist town lockdown during spring break, and now changes the tourist voucher in such a way that it extends it to one-day events. ...man, don't you see that? I understand, of course, that this will cause citizens to use part of this bonus, e.g. for pilgrimages, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But that means entrepreneurs. who built their business to stay in tourist resorts, on the fact that there is a group of people who simply arrive there in winter, ski, will have their backs again, they will be victimized again by the PiS government. And the question is whether the government will come to its senses and finally create or adopt a mechanism prepared by the Civic Coalition to support entrepreneurs in tourist destinations because they need it today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u160	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Górska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u161	Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, The current economic situation in Poland, the situation of companies, companies which make gross domestic product so important for the economy, is very difficult. Pandemic forces further restrictions, which is why it is so important to provide adequate assistance for Polish companies and companies. We all appreciate the great contribution of the whole government has been making for several months since the first day of the epidemic in reducing the negative effects of COVID-19. All solutions put in place by the government so far in relation to the economy and entrepreneurs are invaluable at this difficult time. No matter what the opposition says, it's a fact. Today the most important action is that the domino effect does not exist and does not lead to a collapse of the economy in order to support Polish entrepreneurs. Since 1 January 2021, a number of changes, new legal solutions for entrepreneurs, have entered into force. It's called the so-called. Estonian CIT, a special investment fund or changes increasing revenue limits for the application of a lower VAT rate. Entrepreneurs count on the introduction of these solutions to obtain liquidity, so needed time and stability for their companies. How will these changes affect our economy? And my next question: What further steps are introduced by the Ministry to speed up the recovery of the post-pandemic economy? I would also like to point out that the European Guarantee Fund, the latest common shield of the Member States (the Bell) against pandemics, is also a great opportunity for development. At least 20 billion PLN is expected to reach entrepreneurs in the coming years. Today I would like to ask about the institutions which will be involved in the whole process, in the shortest possible use of these funds for the benefit of Polish entrepreneurs, but also about the supervision that the Ministry has on the implementation of these instruments. The main objective of the Fund is to provide support to small and medium-sized enterprises by increasing their access to finance. Have these institutions already prepared an appropriate offer? Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego also participates in these activities. In this context, the media already point out that it is analysing the current expectations of the SME sector in terms of leasing support, as there has been no dedicated guarantee product for this form of financing so far. The Polish Government of Law and Justice, unlike its opponents, does not fall asleep in ashes. We have helped, helped and will help the Polish economy. [[Applause]] After today's discussion, I fear to think what would happen if the Platform with PSL continued to rule the country. Screaming, brawling, playing on emotions, hate, sharing Poles - these are your main entertainments. That's it. And society would be left to itself. Thank God law and justice rule! Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u162	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The PiS state says they're in contact with the public. I feel like it's just from the limo windows. They also say they're talking to entrepreneurs. Yeah, with the police. The police are actually quite numerously coming to protests by entrepreneurs who, as you can see, are protesting because they are so delighted with how the government helps them. Last time I took a cab, the cab driver said it was his first course after four hours of standing up and waiting for any customer to show up. As it happens, the taxi industry has not been closed. Why are they complaining? Well, maybe because if there are closed restaurants to which there is no reason to drive customers, if there are closed theatres, cinemas, if people don't have big parties, because there's just a koravirus, if there are no weddings, if there's no weddings, if there's not everything that makes us use a taxi, then taxi drivers don't have courses. Normally in the world they have to pay rent for the car, they have to pay taxes, and they don't receive any money from customers. He asked straight away: Is the only aid they will receive from the State to be released from the Social Security Office for one month in November? How's he gonna survive? How's he gonna pay that ZUS in the next few months? How's he gonna pay for a car or a loan or a lease? How's he gonna survive with his family? They're all alone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You are not helping them because in fact this PKD-based system helps only a few and does not solve the problems of the majority. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u164	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Adam Szłapka, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u165	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Because of the pandemic, the Government of Law and Justice is taking various economic measures. Only there is no logic in these activities, because some industries are suspended, others are restricted, others are not taken action against others. I therefore ask the Minister very specifically: On the basis of what analyses, what studies, what discussions, what consultations have been suspended from the fitness industry in recent weeks? Please respond in writing. What specific expertise, research and analysis were ordered and carried out by the government, which served as the basis for this decision? Do you know that in the fitness industry there are very large networks that employ many people for employment contracts, and these companies have been deprived of any means of influence? Do you know that there are small neighborhood gyms that have also been turned off from day to day and have no job opportunities? The owners of these gyms report to the parliamentary offices. Do you know that in the fitness industry there are coaches working contract jobs in clubs and gyms? Do you know that there are people, coaches, who are engaged in a one-man business activity and who have also been deprived of any possibility of earning during that time? From day to day. They found out from the press conference at about an hour. 16 says they won't be able to earn any money in three days. That is why I ask specifically and I ask you to send in writing these analyses, these studies and those studies on the basis of which you have taken a decision on this matter. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u166	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Industries haven't been closed, as you say here. [[Joy in the Chamber]] How can you not? The economy is working, that's why we're here... I can't. ...light burns in this room, we can talk... Take it. Turn off the lights. ... Taxi drivers drive... Taxi drivers drive? Ha, ha, ha! Of course, taxi drivers are in a very difficult situation, but, ladies and gentlemen, these 150 billion, almost 160 billion, which the Government of Law and Justice has pumped into the economy, saved the economy and all of us Poles. You? Yeah, you guys are, 'cause you guys... And we don't want you telling the wrong story here, telling Poles the wrong story. I would like to ask the Minister: How many companies have been rescued as a result of this aid, and how many companies have been suspended or how many owners have applied for the suspension or closure of their companies? I would also like to say that we really do walk the earth. We managed to finance the sanatorium industry. The sanatoria isn't working either, but the shield has helped and will help them survive this difficult period. There are three sanatoriums in Horyńc-Zdroj and they will work. They didn't fire anyone. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the truth. Nobody left or got fired. [[Applause]] Taxi rides. And since there are no customers, they drive empty. Then get in the car and drive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u168	Thank you. Mr Michał Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u169	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There's a saying: in a healthy body, a healthy spirit. I also say this as the son of a Polish Olympic. Ladies and gentlemen, the fitness industry, gyms, sports facilities have been the victims of what you do. 90% Fitness employees are employed under a contract other than a contract of employment, most often it is an order contract. Before the outbreak in Poland almost 3,000 were active. Fitness clubs, which attended a little over 3 million people. This is a great tragedy because what you are proposing for this industry, for those workers who are not employed under a contract of employment, is really a drop in the sea of needs. And this is also an example of irrational actions. For if we look at a gym where the spaces are preserved, where everyone trains on a separate device, and we look at this Torunian fugitive, where Members and Ministers of the PiS crowded like sardines, one next to the other, in order to come closer to the most important one at this assembly. It shows how irrational decisions were. I appeal directly: Minister, the fitness industry is waiting for clear regulations, for real aid that needs to be offered, and for a concrete perspective on the opening of these facilities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The point is that Poles and Poles can gain immunity also through physical activity, thanks to sports effort. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u170	Thank you very much. And he spoke to you son of a double Olympic medalist. That's nice. [[Applause]] Let's hear it. Mrs Violetta Porowska, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. We will join with the Member. Welcome. Please. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u171	Welcome. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Today we are talking about very important issues relating to helping industries, businesses and businesses. The Pandemic has changed the functioning of all areas of our lives in a diametric way, so these changes have also affected the economy. The Law and Justice Government is doing its utmost to mitigate its negative effects, and today my previous speakers have rightly pointed out how much help it is, how much it is able to support many branches and how many entrepreneurs are helping here. In view of the long-term impact of the pandemic on the economy... Even after the implementation of the vaccination programme, the stigma of pandemics will continue to affect, e.g. for catering, taxi and a few others. In order for effective aid to be provided in the next crisis shields, a kind of strategy is needed for industries that can be even more acutely affected by the pandemic. Hence the question, Minister: Is it possible to predict which sectors after the epidemic will have to redefine their business strategies as much as possible? Our government, the government of law and justice is so beautifully caring for entrepreneurs, so also this strategy, the indication today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] where in the future entrepreneurs can see for themselves the opportunity to implement their ideas, business concepts, will certainly help them very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u172	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The opposition has often raised the fact today - especially true - that the pandemic is not the fault of entrepreneurs. Yes, the pandemic is not the fault of entrepreneurs, but the epidemic that prevails in Poland and the world is also not the fault of the Polish government, nor of local governments, maybe it is just a little blame of the opposition, which leads people to the streets during this difficult time, so the number of infections is greater. Don't lie to me, woman. We should all try to deal with this pandemic and try to help those who have suffered in this pandemic, especially those who have suffered very badly. The Member spoke of empathy towards people. Yes, empathy towards people The Civic Platform showed when there was a previous crisis, and the effect of this empathy towards people was among others. increase in retirement age, increase in taxes. We're not gonna chase you out on taxes. On the other hand, the Law and Justice act differently. We are trying to help and thanks to the fact that the Government of Law and Justice has been taking care of the state's finances for the previous four years, we have been able to lead to the situation that the budget could be without a deficit this year. 1.5 million... I have a specific question, Minister. Thank you for your help, which is provided thanks to the fact that we rule well, you ruled, but I also have a question from Mrs. Mirka, a particular Mrs. Mirka, who runs the wedding home, and also serves the school canteens. [[♪ The bell ♪]] First of all, is there any chance the kids are going back to school? Because when the cafeterias are closed, her income is close to zero. To go. And a specific question. She took advantage of the shield, received a loan, had 15 employees, but at this point there was almost no income, so most of it slowed down. If she reinstates these workers, she will re-hire, is there any chance that after two years she will not have to return the loan she has received under the shield? Because we're all counting on the economy to get back on track, that we're just going to get back on track and that schools are going to start working and entrepreneurs are going to make money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u174	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Soin, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u175	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We all know that the crisis shields have effectively protected against the effects of the crisis and kept the unemployment rate constant. The unemployment rate estimated by the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology at the end of October this year. was 6.1% , which means that for a few months unemployment was stable. The Pandemic COVID-19 is a major shock to the economy and can contribute to a significant reduction in jobs and unemployment. I ask the Minister to know what the prospects of the labour market are for the end of 2020 and whether the stabilisation of labour will continue next year as well. Should we expect an increase in unemployment in the near future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, parliamentary club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u177	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think no one is questioning the fact that public money from the state budget has strengthened industry and services during the pandemic period. It's just a question of whether or not they've fed in an even way. Did all economic sectors, or did all economic activities have a chance to obtain this aid? Let me give you one example. Conservatives of drinking equipment that are registered in PKD as another activity - if they were registered as engaged in the metal industry, they would have had a chance. In other activities, however, they do not. So these are the issues that come back to us as Members of Parliament. These entrepreneurs are trying to find some legitimate support from us, so that not belonging to the business criterion of PKD would help or be the basis for help, but above all, that the loss of revenue in these companies would be a condition. This is more difficult, we are aware of it, but on the other hand we also know that as far as the Polish Development Fund is concerned, the planned tranche for large companies was PLN 25 billion. It is likely that 10 will be used because many companies have broken out on their own initiative, but for objective reasons identified by public authorities. Hence, there is a reserve in public funds that could power [[♪ The bell ♪]] in particular, small and medium-sized enterprises, including those companies that were often mentioned here: gastronomic, tourist, dietary activities. After all, they are also important from a social point of view. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u178	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have 10 minutes until the discussion is over, because, as you know, 90 minutes of this point. There are two speakers after five minutes. I reserve that there will be no unpleasant situation: after 5 minutes I will unfortunately thank you, gentlemen, because we accepted it. Please take the floor of the applicant's representative. Mr Paweł Pontylius, Civic Coalition. Please. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u179	Maria Pontylius? No, I'm just Pavel Pontylius. Mr. Marshal! What we are talking about today is the fact that today you can't see that the government - including the Minister - had a coherent idea of what the case looks like today, what it is supposed to look like for the next months for the tourism industry and all sectors that are connected to this industry. These are suppliers of all kinds of goods. We also do not see and have not seen the Minister's statements during these many months, whether there are any real analyses. Isn't it nervous grabbing the wall and deciding that the other day in one medium or another, one of the media material appeared and: come on, we close - as it was in the case of cemeteries? In fact, you are not friends with family businesses, because all your solutions do not include family companies in the form of civil companies, single-member businesses, but also commercial companies, cases where we deal with companies in which there is a wife, husband, possibly children who help in this business, precisely in different types of hotels, guesthouses, restaurants, bars, because in fact you are giving money to protect jobs in larger plants. But you don't really help companies that do business with one person or family, when people don't get paid as employees. Hence, the whole idea of assigning, having fun, calculating PKD codes, to which the business belongs and to which it does not belong, is simply a missed idea. Not enough, see what you're doing. You do not help family businesses, and on the other hand you introduce rules that allow currency exchange officers or law firms to apply for money for the so-called. maintaining jobs when families are in huge financial difficulties not only because they do not have any current effects but it is also a matter of paying leases, bills for delivered media, loans that are often collected for investments in recent years. On these issues, you really have nothing to propose today. What kind of help would be real? These are real loans, this is the suspension of ZUS payments for all who are doing business today, suspension of loan instalments, leases, loans until the duration of the restrictions that have been taken by the government. It's about paying rent, gas, electricity. Today, power distribution plants start disengaging electricity to various types of guesthouses. You want examples of how the first shield worked. Hotel Orle Nest, Szczyrk, got the money from the first shield. What's he doing today? He had to terminate his employment contract for all the workers, because there is no prospect for the season, there is no prospect for help. What does that mean? That money was spent that was actually burned in the fireplace. You're bidding on 160 billion help. There may be a second amount, only this is like the fun of a kid who pours gasoline into a burning fire and is glad that the flame is great for a while. If we don't put some wood in tonight, the fire's gonna go out really fast. We ask the Minister to answer all our questions in writing, because we haven't gotten any answers. Finally, we have to say that the PiS today says that it gives something to entrepreneurs that it helps. You don't have your own money. This money is a wealth of Poles, citizens and taxpayers. If these taxpayers stay butchered today, there's nothing to pay back. There's nothing to pay for it, because it's not the money you took from Mr. Morawiecki's account or Mr. Kaczyński's drawer, it's the money from the Poles. You're doing it today, but it's gonna have consequences in the future. You're in debt, but those debts are gonna have to be paid. Not you, not Mr. Kaczyński, all Poles. That's the problem. PFR today is really an instrument that is about to oligarch the Polish economy. Falling hotels will be able to be redeemed for a dollar either by PFR or by the Polish Hotel Holding - a state-owned company. I don't think that's what you're supposed to be talking about. That's what they're after. It's about saving companies, restaurants, family businesses for which today neither the government nor the PFR, nor those banks you bought, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They have no proposal, even if it comes to loans. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u180	Thank you, sir. You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Robert Tomanek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for your questions, for your comments. They were all listed by my associates and by me. The discussion was very inspiring and informative for me. Of course, all your questions will be answered. They will be provided with explanations prepared on the basis of the knowledge available to the resort. In a brief summary, I would like to draw attention to one thing. Forgive me for using indicators, but by education I am an economist, and by practice also a professional practice. But we in the Seym... There's one thing I want to say to you. I don't know if you're aware of that because I was surprised myself. The scale of the disc aid is 8%. Polish gross domestic product. What we receive as support from the European Union is less than 5% , including annual GDP throughout the financial perspective. That's 8%. It's really a lot. We must be aware that this is a great effort of society and of the state as a whole. The possibility of extending this aid on a larger scale is limited. All the instruments you have presented are interesting, but in any case, both the instruments that the government has applied and those that you are suggesting and which we will consider - there is a risk that we will take actions that will not be optimal. What I fear most is that, as a result of such or other aid instruments, we will make changes on the market that will make it difficult for those companies that deal best with the pandemic. It's a big risk. This is signalled by the entrepreneurs themselves, and they pay attention to it by criticizing the instruments we have used. I think that what should be welcomed optimisticly by everyone involved in the discussion is the fact that this year, or the next year, we are not at risk of what seemed inevitable and most terrifying - an increase in unemployment. The strength of the Polish economy is primarily export. At the moment, we see that the economy is doing very well. I personally have very high hopes in the self-regulation systems of the economy. Larger - it may sound paradoxical - than in instruments supporting such or other industries. What about the fact that PKD isn't perfect? It's imperfect, but what other instrument can we use? How do you direct this? Horizontal aid is imperfect. Sectoral aid is imperfect. There are sub-branches in PKD. Worse still, PKD operates differently in different regions. The government must make difficult choices. It's the government's duty. We must face criticism, but we are in constant dialogue not only with Parliament but also with groups of entrepreneurs. Not with us. Representatives of the industries you spoke about are a permanent guest at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology. I regret the fact that the fitness industry is closed because I always started the day by swimming 2 km in the pool. It's okay. It happened for different reasons, there are different arguments. I don't want to get into a discussion because I'm not an epidemiologist. I hope that Poland will come out of this crisis with a defensive hand, that we will learn from it and 2021 will be much better than 2020. I'm sorry I didn't satisfy all the information needs. Thank you for your attention and I hope that the answers we will give in writing will make the picture clearer. I also promise to use the limo as rarely as possible. I hate that. I'll be bringing my bike back from Silesia soon. I hope you can park under the Seym. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]] How are you gonna get through those railings?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u182	Minister, you made me so nervous about this declaration that you don't have to bring your bike back from Silesia. I'll lend you mine. If you don't use the limo... Mr. Marshal, I like my equipment. I already broke my arm once. Yes, thank you. Did they break your arm at some kind of protest? On a bike. No. Uh-huh. Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen, this statement concludes this item on the agenda. Let's move on to the next one. The competent committees have submitted reports on government draft laws: - amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011, - on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which criminal law is applicable belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan. The reports shall be printed in 837 and 838 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws (Prints Nos 687 and 796). I ask Mr Piotr Sak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I present a report on the Government draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. The draft law is contained in print No 687 and the report of the committee is incorporated in print No 796. I would remind you that on 27 November the draft was sent to the committee and that on 2 December the committee was sitting at a committee meeting. During the meeting there was a preliminary, albeit quite lively and in-depth discussion about the new design of the qualified electronic seal and a new network service enabling electronic data from the National Criminal Register, in fact such a new channel for obtaining information from this register. The proposed amendments are aimed at automated and dehumanising the obtaining of certificates issued by public administrations. Departure from traditional and slightly archaic forms will allow faster and more efficient access to information collected in the National Criminal Register. These new rationalization solutions are expected to result in a more efficient, operational, faster, more dynamic information acquisition according to the government's declaration. This time is to be reduced to one day. A single legislative-editing amendment was introduced during the project's recognition. The others were not accepted. I thank you at this stage for a calm, balanced and substantive discussion. I am counting on this atmosphere to continue with its legislative work. The Commission recommends the adoption of a law in the proposed form. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u184	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u185	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It has been my honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the report of the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Law - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws contained in print No 796. Although the name of the bill refers to the amendment of the Code of Administrative Procedure, the main reason for the development of the project and the changes discussed was, it seems, a huge demand for information from the National Criminal Register. Currently, the procedure for providing information on a person from the National Criminal Register is governed by the Act and by the Regulation of the Minister of Justice of 7 July 2015 on the provision of information on persons and on collective entities on the basis of data collected in the National Criminal Register. From year to year, the KRK Information Office receives more and more questions, and the number of these questions has already exceeded 1 million a year. There are 1,300 thousand in the explanatory memorandum, but there are still more and more of these questions. However, the way information is provided has not changed in its assumptions since the creation of the National Criminal Register in 2000, when the need for information from the KRK was several times lower. To date, efforts to improve the office's work have focused on optimising the available human and technical resources, but the capacity to continue the office in its current form and using its resources is no longer sufficient. This is why the government's proposal for change has been put forward for the first time in the last term. Then, as we mentioned during the work, the draft of this law could not be adopted. We're back now. The new information solution is intended to ensure a greater degree of automation of the data processing process by, among others. the provision of a network service to specific operators. In order to obtain information from the National Criminal Register, these entities will not have to make a request but will be able to send a request for information to the National Criminal Register system using the applications they already have. On the basis of the request there will be automatic search and verification of the data. The answer to such a request will be synchronously answered, i.e. without the participation of the employee, without the participation of the person. The solutions proposed in the proposal are particularly important for courts, prosecutors, police and special services. They will thus have faster access to the data collected in the data register, which will contribute to the improvement of the proceedings carried out by these authorities. It should be noted that out of this total number of questions we have been talking about, more than one million a year, about 80% It comes from those entities that I mentioned here, i.e. courts, prosecutors, police. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I declare my support for this government project. However, in order to improve further, I am making amendments to you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u186	I invite Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! At the end of November, when we started working on this bill, I said that the proposed changes seemed advisable, although confidence in all government projects and their authors fell almost to zero. However, I was hoping that we would adopt a law in the mode of mini-max - minimum unnecessary words, maximum good law. The fears proved to be right. A short project, only four articles, could be carefully prepared, and it turns out that this task is difficult as getting K2 in winter. In line with the suggestions made by the Legislative Office on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I propose an amendment on the detailing of the legislative delegation for the Minister of Justice to issue implementing provisions so that the regulation based on it also takes into account the specificities of the provision of information via the ICT system. At the meeting of the United Right committee, seven amendments were tabled. So it turns out that the project is not refined. And you'd like government projects to be particularly refined. But the amendments that have been tabled cannot be flawed for two reasons. Because of exceeding the scope of the submission - the amendments did not concern the subject of the amendment presented at first reading, the circumvention of three readings, a significant breach of the procedure, unless the State intentionally does so, so that the Constitutional Tribunal ceases to be unemployed. The amendments amending the codes must also have a special procedure for proceding, and the first reading of the amendments to the Code should take place in plenary, and it was not and is not. I therefore recommend voting against these amendments, if that is the case, and if they are adopted, voting against the whole law. The Sejm cannot adopt laws in violation of the law. The Sejm can't afford it. Taking shortcuts very often causes complete confusion. Unfortunately, the rulers take shortcuts in the Seym. I call for mini-max proceding - minimum errors, maximum good law. A further request to the President, to you, Mr President, that you work during the meeting of the Extraordinary Commission in the mode of mini-max - the minimum of contempt, the minimum of unkindness, and the maximum of kindness. Politeness, i.e. it is better not to deny Members the opportunity to do normal work, even when you announce that you will present the amendments in due time, without the possibility for the members of the committee to be familiar with them. You're chairing the Extraordinary Committee, but all I'm asking for is your ordinary, normal behavior. I do not urge you to enter K2 in the winter because it is impossible for you, but it is possible for you, Mr Vivre, to have the basic principles of savoir vivre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u188	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It was a horror after Mr Zimoch's speech, just as it did for K2 in winter, although I was not there, but I expected, to be honest, a little warmer to accept this government presentation, because unlike the predecessor, the parliamentary club of the Left has a relatively positive approach to this government presentation. Although, of course, the devil is in the details and my speech will not be free from critical accents. But first, let us remind you that, as Mrs Bartus said, actually this government presentation solves about 80%. problems if we consider it a problem to serve and answer millions of questions from different sides to the National Criminal Register, because that is the essence of this government proposal and this amendment. It's about 75 and 80%. These questions would be considered as a result of the amendment, so to speak, by means of electronic systems, mainly the National Criminal Register, in direct communication with the relevant IT systems of the State authorities concerned, because only this amendment, I will remind you, concerns, i.e. all kinds of services, starting with the border service, through the ABW, counterintelligence service, intelligence service, etc., etc., and ending with the State Protection Service. Well, that's great, you could say. Maybe it's a bit of a pity for those fifty workers who have been doing this so far, but I believe that the government administration will find another place and another job for these people, all the more so because the justice system, after the famous reforms by Minister Ziobra, suffers rather from the increasing length of proceedings than the fact that there is less and less and people wait less and less in the courts to consider their cases. High Seym! The most interesting thing is that it's invisible as usual. Well, the most interesting thing, in my opinion, is that the resort of justice and, it seems, the whole government continues to practice such a silo philosophy of action. Not so long ago. We've been looking at the Electronic Service Act here, and we'd like to ask, "What happened to those 20 and 25%? proposals, I will add from myself, submitted by entrepreneurs, e.g. by natural persons, to the National Criminal Register, which are not included in the proposed law? Why didn't the justice department lead to a situation where the Electronic Service Act, much needed, dissolved in time... Nine years, Mr. Marshal, nine years we will be waiting for the final conclusion of the issue of electronic service. Why didn't the justice department address these problems, not only the Intelligence Agency and the State Protection Service, but also the ordinary entrepreneur who participates in some tender and needs a certificate of non-punishment, not to obtain such a certificate quickly, safely and seamlessly? I can make further questions, but let me conclude by saying that it seems that our discussion - I am referring to what the honourable previous speaker, Mr Zimoch, was talking about - is in the mini-mini option. I mean, Members can talk to each other, and from the government or from the Ministry of Justice or from the Ministry of Digitalization or, excuse me, the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, because the new minister of digitalization is Mateusz Morawiecki, there is no one in this Chamber. Unless I'm wrong. No, I'm not wrong. So that in this mini-mini formula, I repeat once again, despite the rather arrogant approach, the club of the Left will vote in favour of this government presentation. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u190	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u191	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're not here, Minister of Justice! On behalf of the Koalicja Polska Club, I will maintain a positive opinion on the substance of the government project amending the Code of Administrative Procedure to improve the informationization of an important section of the justice system, which is the National Criminal Register. Today, in the 21st century, we cannot continue to admire the rules for exchanging paper documents, since this can be improved by electronic systems. But I will agree with the previous speakers that after recent years of practice and experience with regard to the ideas of the Ministry of Justice, there is such a principle shifted from traffic, the principle of limited trust, and that is the fact that we all feel it. However, even worse practice is beginning to emerge, and yesterday we also worked on, it would seem, obvious projects, the practice of mixing during the examination, seems to be a sensible, thoughtful government project, mixing various other issues in all of this. In five to twelve, in the course of the second or first reading, various parliamentary ideas appear. To the speaker - and here I will agree with Mr Zimoch - we must say decisively: no. Gentlemen, don't go down this road, don't mess up the legislation that hasn't been good here in months or years. It's because of this kind of practice. We don't go into intentions, but practices are damned. We're gonna look at these amendments, and we're gonna have to analyze them. Let me stress once again: the essence is accepted by us. Think about it, gentlemen, whether it's worth spoiling this creature with such indulgences and making unnecessary remarks and mistrust of intent. Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u192	Thank you very much, sir. I wanted to say, because I want to be honest with all sides, that Minister Marcin Romanowski listens to us remotely. I'm giving you this information so you know it. Greetings. We salute the Minister together. Of course. There you go, Mr Artur Dziambor, the Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u193	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I'm short this time. This is a typically technical change and should rather be quite obvious. Clearly, any circulation of documents needs to be improved, and it is best improved by actually eliminating a large part of them. Taking advantage of the opportunity that there is a specific discussion on this subject, just about documents, I would like to remind you, because it is often the case that there are some issues from the Seymary that at this point there is a statutory obligation to provide a certificate of non-punishment in the case of licensed security workers, Border Guards, tax officials, tax advisors, bailiffs, police officers, teachers, including catechists - as a teacher with 15 years of experience I never understood this, but it is on the list - prosecutors, judges, insurance agents, detectives. I think half of this list could be kicked out of this bill. I understand that the requirement of non-punishment can work with uniformed services, those who care about our safety or in the judiciary, while all the rest is private sector, and in this private sector there should be no such restrictions. It's so memorable, because of course that's not what today's discussion is about, and that's not what we're making a change on. The Confederation will support this project. Like I said, it's a technical project and it's a good thing that even though something will be slightly improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u194	Thank you very much. Are you Mr Michael Szczerba? I can't see. Mr Mirosław Suchoń? I can't see either. In this connection, we join with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Mr Marcin Romanowski. Minister, are you? You're here. Come on in, you're welcome. You have five minutes at your disposal, Minister. Welcome. [[The undersecretary's statement is displayed on the screens]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u195	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The subject of today's proceedings is a proposal to amend the law - k.p.a. and the law on KRK. As indeed noted by the honourable Members, a change in the National Criminal Register is an important subject here. Namely, it is about improving and automated provision of information from the National Criminal Register. In order to achieve this, we also had to amend the Code of Administrative Procedure by introducing the possibility of issuing not only certificates in electronic form or in paper form with a signature, whatever it would be, but also just certificates bearing a qualified electronic stamp, which the institution will of course be able to be used also by other entities in the future if there is such a decision in other laws. Therefore, this is also the answer to whether the proposal or the conclusions of Mr Kwiatkowski. As far as the grounds are concerned, for several years now, the number of requests to the National Criminal Register together - because we are dealing here on the one hand with Warsaw, on the other hand with information points throughout Poland - is 3 million, from all entities combined. Therefore, we expect that this is an automated information provision process for those selected entities, 80% of which , up to 80% will be covered, will make an important contribution to speeding up the issuing of certificates, including those private entities. I would like to point out that the average time currently for answering questions and requests is almost 19 days. Thanks to these changes, up to 80% of the certificates will be issued in real time, and as far as the remaining twenty-several percent are concerned, we want to minimize the time spent in simple cases up to one day. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that this was the subject of our work. That was a remark. or Mr Zimoth's amendment. Together with the Government Legislative Centre, however, we have established that this solution is sufficient, which is in the article. 21a and in the explanatory memorandum to this part of the project. Of course, here you can have a different opinion, we have actually discussed this at the committee meeting, but I think that together with the Legislative Office, we have obtained a common position here in line with the current presentation. So that I am convinced that this project, if it becomes an existing law, will give the possibility to issue certificates with a qualified electronic stamp and will actually enable the full automation of the process of providing information from the National Criminal Register. This web service, which is already ready and waiting for this solution in many institutions, can indeed help to speed up the performance of these tasks and, consequently, to speed up proceedings. This is particularly important now, during the pandemic period, in order to obtain information actually in the form of safe and non-human participation. I therefore ask the High House to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u196	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Mr Sak, also asked for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u197	Thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! Thank you very much for all your words, insights, and comments, especially those critical ones. Thank you for the amendments that have been made. Of course, they will continue to be valued, validated at a later stage of legislative work. I must, I have an internal imperative to refer here to the words of Mr Zimoth, who tried to mimic me here, to confound me with his statement. On the contrary, I encourage you. Mr. Speaker! I hope that your statement is not based on bad will or lack of kindness, but on a lack of knowledge about the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, on certain shortcomings in knowledge in this regard. As we know perfectly well, that is why these words have been spoken by me - it is a statement which you have quoted in extenso - because there is a chronology in the situation where the draft law is read during a committee meeting. And as you know perfectly well, my amendments referred to the wording of the article. 3 and that is why this issue was signalled. Regardless, Mr President, before I really orally tabled these amendments, they have already been sent to all Members through committee staff. In this respect, I have all the more fulfilled my obligation under Article. 42 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, which indicate when amendments should be tabled. They are presented orally and then in writing. In this case, They were already at your disposal before they were spoken orally by me. That is why this remark is absolutely unnecessary, barren and unnecessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u198	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was notified to the proposed amendment, pursuant to Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I am directing this draft law to the Extraordinary Commission for amendments to the codifications in order to submit a report. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure (Prints Nos 732 and 821). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, prints 732 and 821. The Commission at its meeting on 10 December considered the draft law as well as the amendments tabled by Mrs Gill-Friday during the committee meeting. These amendments were not accepted by the committee. They are therefore presented today by the committee as minority proposals. The committee, on the other hand, refers to the adoption of a judicial submission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u200	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Anna Milczanowska, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak remotely. Since there is no connection with the Member, Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, the Civic Coalition, will speak. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Club Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u201	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the left club on the report of the committee on the government draft law Code of Criminal Procedure, prints 732 and 821. As we read in the submission, the project aims to implement European Union law. The draft law amends the Code of Criminal Procedure, which clarify and clarify the provisions already in force relating to procedural guarantees for victims. The need for these changes is linked to the fulfilment of obligations under the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and on combating sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. These amendments are intended to take account of the European Commission's proposals in breach of the procedures for the incomplete implementation of these Directives. In Polish law, the rules currently contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure already implement most of the provisions of the directives mentioned above, among others. the right of the victim to information about his rights and to information on proceedings, the right to translation, including the submission of a notification of a crime in the language to which the victim has authority, to be heard, to legal assistance, to reimbursement of costs incurred, to compensation, to protection measures, and, in addition, in the Code of Criminal Enforcement, as regards the Fund for Hurtful Aid and Post-Penitentiary Assistance. The aim is to provide assistance to victims, including material and intangible assistance in the form of legal and psychological advice. While the very way in which these laws are implemented leaves much to be desired today, it is especially about the way in which and the objectives for which the funds from the so-called ones are actually spent. a justice fund that, to put it mildly, is highly controversial. The report by NIK states explicitly that the Ministry of Justice did not provide adequate and effective assistance to victims of crime. As regards the next directive, I would like to say that its provisions are also reflected in a number of laws, including the Criminal Code on Sexual Crime or the Code of Criminal Procedure on the Rights of Victims of Children, including the special mode of interrogation, recording of such hearings or their optionality, as well as in the Law on the Prevention of Family Violence, which implements the so-called provisions. the anti-violence convention. Many of the laws currently in force in our country provide the support necessary from the perspective of the victims. It is support and protection, today guaranteed by law, which could seem obvious and fundamental, we have gained thanks to the adaptation of the Polish right to EU law just. Thanks to our presence in the European Union, not only the state of our road infrastructure, the railway infrastructure, is improving, but not only the co-financed municipalities, not only warmed-up and expanded schools, but also our law is becoming better, and in this particular case, the victims of crime gain better legal protection. Poland in the European Union is not only additional funds for health protection, such as those from the Fund for Reconstruction or the environment from the Fund for Fair Transformation, it is not only known to everyone, for example by hearing, aid for farmers, but also what we sometimes seem to forget on a daily basis: better protection of our rights, human rights and the protection of the rule of law. Since the proposed amendments to the legislation aim to implement EU law more fully and, consequently, to improve the situation of victims, the Left Club supports this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u202	Thank you very much, Member. Is Mr Krzysztof Paszyk in the Chamber? There isn't. Do we have a connection with the Member? We are trying to connect with Anna Milczanowska. There is no connection with the Member. No questions, that's why I'm closing... Will Mr Marcin Romanowski wish to speak with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice? There isn't. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Mark Ast.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u203	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would first of all like to thank you for the substantive discussion within the committee. Indeed, there were very few votes in the Chamber today, but this is also due to the overworking of the project within the committee. The aim of the project is to implement European Union law, so it was not controversial. Once again, thank you very much to all the members of the committee. Thank you for your comments on the draft, all the votes and, of course, on behalf of the committee, I request that this draft be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u204	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I now declare a ten-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 min. 37 until 3 p.m. 13 min 49]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms (prints Nos 809 and 835). I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Arent to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u205	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High House! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law on promoting electricity generation in offshore wind farms, print No 809 and print No 835. The Marshal of the Sejm sent the submitted draft to our committee. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, after first reading, considered the project. Amendments were tabled during the examination. Amendment 1 is a legislative amendment. Amendment 2 results from the need to supplement the proposed provisions on the Minister for Geology in connection with the separation of this department of government administration by the Law of 20 November 2020 amending the Law on Government Administrations and certain other laws which will enter into force on 1 January 2021. Amendment 3 is an amendment resulting from the need to clarify the deadline for issuing the opinion referred to in the provision. Amendment 4 is related to the repeal of point 23 of Article. Article 77 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5. Amendment 5 serves to correctly express the initial will of the projector. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets requests the adoption of the attached bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u206	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u207	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on promoting electricity generation in offshore wind farms. The aim of the bill on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms, the 809, is to exploit the Baltic's potential for wind power generation and to create legal standards that will allow investment projects to be implemented and the construction of a new sector of the economy such as offshore wind power. I would like to emphasise the importance of the proposed project not only for the energy sector but more broadly - and for the economy as a whole, in particular during the period of reconstruction of our economic potential after the pandemic. The Ministry of Climate and Environment presented an updated project of Poland's energy policy up to 2040 in September, one of the strategic and priority directions indicated in this document is the investment programme for the construction of offshore wind farms worth about PLN 130 billion, which will lead to approximately 11 GW of installed capacity by 2040 in the Polish exclusive economic zone in the Baltic area and the creation of about 77 thousand. new jobs. It is crucial that offshore wind farms are created with the largest participation of Polish companies in the whole supply chain, in particular shipbuilding and port companies. The estimated value of the proposed investments has no precedent in history, which means big benefits for the economy as well as revenues to the state budget. The biggest beneficiaries of offshore wind energy development will be shipyards, ports, steel and metal industries, machinery, transport and services. Due to the development of the sector, coastal regions will benefit, service and installation companies will flourish. Many of them are already actively involved in offshore wind farm construction projects, but there are also those that are only planning to join this area of activity. The main elements of the bill are: a two-phase support system, improvements in administrative procedures, adopted rules on connection of generators to the electricity grid and the disposal of power from offshore wind farms, as well as the development of the local supply chain. The support model provided for in the Act is based on the so-called so-called economic concept tested in Polish economic realities. a bilateral differential contract, which is successfully applied to the currently functioning RES support system. Electricity generators in offshore wind farms who enter the support system will be entitled to cover the so-called. a negative balance. In practice, this means covering the difference between the market price of energy and the price that allows generators to cover the cost of generating electricity at sea. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The Act on the promotion of energy generation in offshore wind farms will have a huge impact on the generation capacity structure in energy in the coming decades, but also on the development of the transmission network, the construction of new sectors of the economy and, consequently, the development of the competences of Polish companies, will also positively affect Poland's fulfilment of climate and environmental targets in terms of RES sources and CO emissions reduction. Mrs. Marshal! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, pursuant to Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, I propose amendments to the draft Act on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms, prints Nos 809 and 835. The amendments concern Article. 58, Art. Article 82 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, Article Paragraph 112. Point 1, Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Paragraph 113. Point 1, Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 114 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1, Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 115 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1, Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Reasons have been given. Thank you very much. If I may yet, Your Marshal, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I apply for the third reading of the bill on promoting the generation of electricity in offshore wind farms, prints Nos 809 and 835, without referring to the committee the amendments and proposals submitted to this bill, after service to its Members. I have been authorized to submit my application. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u208	Thank you. Please, Mr Sławomir Neumann... First, Krzysztof. Excuse me, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u209	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is an important project. I would like to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition's position on the draft law on promoting electricity generation in offshore wind farms that is being discussed today. The project, as I pointed out at the beginning, is very important and includes many elements that the government has not noticed so far. Of course, it has been expected for several years, especially in the last two years when you worked on this project. Undoubtedly, the implementation of the provisions of this law, or perhaps the application of the support mechanisms set out therein - I hope so, because this is possible - may lead to an improvement in RES participation rates in gross energy consumption in Poland. This can undoubtedly be the case. What does it look like today? Poland committed to reach a 15% share of RES in 2015 gross energy consumption. What's it say? In 2017, the Minister of Energy argued that we were reaching the target faster than the commitments made. In the end of 2017, we received information that we reached 11%. In February 2018, Prime Minister Morawiecki said that Poland is on a very good path to reach the 2020 target. What did it turn out to be? In December 2019 the truth came out. A national energy and climate plan was submitted, in which the Minister of Energy informed the European Union that we would not meet the minimum 15% target for RES' share of gross final energy consumption in 2020. He also informed us that we would have difficulty getting 13.8% This indicator. NIK immediately informed about this and said that it could cost Poland PLN 8 billion, because it would have to buy virtual energy, make virtual purchases of renewable energy sources. The government was four years old and slept through it. The government has not noticed that entrepreneurs who want to invest and build offshore wind farms have problems with their plans for the development of marine areas, that the management of permits for the construction of artificial islands is ongoing and there are problems with the acceptance of the terms of the connection and with the entire administrative process related to the issuing of decisions which is prolonged. Poles pay more and more from year to year, and the compensation promised by you does not really go into their pockets. The government does not even see that the prices offered on RES exchanges are falling from 2016 - from PLN 400 by PLN 253 in 2018 for 1 MWh until 2020. In November we had PLN 190 per MWh for the cheapest auction. What are you proposing today? Today it is burning, so you are proposing a two-phase system based on a direct support mechanism based on administrative decisions and auctions, but this is only in 2025 and 2027, after 2.5 GW, earlier - 5.9 GW... Today Poland needs the development of large low-carbon generation sources increasing the share of RES in the energy mix. What's going on? This is followed by cheaper energy, healthy air, additional jobs. The Civic Coalition will vote in favour of this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u210	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u211	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As my colleague said earlier, this bill is very much needed. It is a pity that we are adopting it so late, because it is a great bill, which a few years ago would give our shipyards the opportunity to take part in the production of all related instruments, tools or materials. In the meantime, we've heard propaganda nonsense about saving the shipbuilding industry, and the kind of material that would be on the table that would actually save these shipyards, gave people a chance to work and produce... The effect of your actions is that rusty keel at the Gryfia shipyard. Let me just say that Pomerania as the place where most windmills will be placed at sea is prepared. A few months ago, a letter of intent was signed between (the bell) local government authorities, scientists, business to be able to implement this policy as soon as possible and earn money. This is an element of earning, not only cheaper energy for Poles, but also making good money by Polish companies in a good, modern business. It's a shame it's so late. I'd like to object, Marshal. The amendments that have been tabled should go to the committee. The Commission will probably still be sitting because we have a second law on material reserves agencies. There will probably be amendments there too, so there's no reason to approach it that way. This is a bit legislatively incorrect. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u212	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u213	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a long-awaited, much-needed law on the development of wind energy in the Baltic Sea. This is a very important moment for development, building modern energy in Poland. Today energy requires constant changes and requires them immediately. The Act is like a wave in a car that changes the direction of development of Polish energy and opens the era of Polish wind. Let me remind you that Poland has the greatest potential for wind energy in the Baltic Sea. As an inhabitant of Pomerania, like my predecessor, I am well aware of how big investment Boom it will cause how important this change will be. I also know that the wind from the sea usually brings good changes. I would like to say a few things that this law has a huge impact on. First of all, it has an impact on what happened a few days ago, namely that the European Union has set a new, 55% target for reducing CO emissions. If someone starts working on a wind farm today, they can count on him to have a job in this industry for the next 25 years. These are also well-paid, highly qualified places. It is also important that in these energy sectors that are going to lamus today - of course, I am talking about coal energy - create a transition from old, outgoing jobs to new jobs that can be produced in wind energy and which are very needed today. Another thing is also the development of science. Already today, a cathedral on wind energy is being built in Szczecin's high sea school. This type of action may have an impact on the fact that science will also develop steadily in this field. Ladies and gentlemen! At the meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, voting on this law, all the votes were in favour. Nobody even stopped. This also shows how important this direction of change is. I want to conclude by saying that this is really the last moment for this bill to be adopted. Because entrepreneurs, in order to be able to compete in the market today with other entrepreneurs from other countries, so as not to fall behind others, already have to enter the market with full pay, with the full package they have, which other countries also have today. It cannot be that Poland, having such a huge potential of the Polish wind on the Baltic Sea, can drop these issues and stay behind. As a Left, we will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u214	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u215	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Minister, The Polish People's Party has always supported the development of renewable energy. This is the government that we co-created, and our Minister of Economy first Waldemar Pawlak, then Janusz Piechociński prepared a key law on renewable energy sources for the development of the industry. As soon as the current power took over, it began to destroy these foundations for the development of RES, which we have been building over the years. During our governments wind energy developed in Poland as nowhere else in Europe, ladies and gentlemen. And since you took over, it's all stopped. New projects still cannot be developed by so-called. It's a distance bill. I remind you of that because you did it. Thousands of people lost their jobs back then. That's what I'm talking about. in West Pomerania, where I come from, was built in good times of government of PSL and PO... In this case I will say: during the good times of the government of PO-PSL wind energy, land energy developed very well. You, ladies and gentlemen, have destroyed it. These are the wind farms that have been created, continuously producing electricity, protecting our environment, reducing the penalties that Poland must pay for failing to comply with the agreements we have agreed to. It is the government of the United Rights that is responsible for freezing the development of RES in wind energy in Poland after 2016. But you, ladies and gentlemen, have finally reflected. Too bad it's so late, but better late than never. The contested Act on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms has its drawbacks. We know this very well because we're talking to investors. But we also know from them that if we do not adopt it today, we can forget about the electricity from the Baltic farms in five years, and therefore also about the energy transformation, and about the money from the Union. And our economy needs this energy very much. And it also needs billions of billions of investments in offshore farms, because they will give momentum to Polish companies that have been exporting products and services for years to markets where wind energy is developing without the barriers that you, the state, have created with us. If you hadn't started fighting windmills in 2016, we would have been in a completely different place. On the basis of investments in Poland, the national supply chain would further develop. Under your rule, a company like ST You fellows are talking about a constitution for offshore wind energy. Leave the constitution alone, just do your job, not the way it has been. If it weren't for your tardiness and your ongoing negotiations with the mining unions, we could lean on this bill more so as to start building it in the first round, it's not about the 5th, but about the 10th GW. But we don't have that time. Investors need to know the framework within which they are to act as soon as possible and this is defined by the regulations implementing this law. Appropriate applications must be submitted to the President of the URE by the end of March next year, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, in the sense of responsibility for the economy of our country on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition, I inform you that we will vote in favour. Please accept this bill as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Michael Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The European Union is introducing an increasingly restrictive climate policy. At the last EU summit, the European Council agreed to reduce net greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030. , compared to 1990. In practice, new targets mean faster price increases in CO allowances The project we are talking about increases the share of renewable energy sources in the national energy mix, as justified. In principle, the introduction of a system of administrative support enabling this process to be carried out more effectively is the right direction where we are forced to put out coal energy, and a rapid decarbonisation process is simply not possible. Sea wind farms, being more efficient than land wind farms due to better weather conditions, are the right direction for development. Of course, that doesn't solve all our problems, and that's what needs to be kept in mind. Polish energy industry, the Polish energy sector needs to be remodeled, because 80% of the coal base at this point is unfortunately beginning to be less profitable for us, just by the European Union. I hope that this project will not develop in such an embarrassing way as it develops. the nuclear power plant project. We do not have a nuclear power plant today and, moreover, the European Union does not support nuclear energy either, because the whole renewable energy sector is supported and these nuclear projects are being ignored. The nuclear power plant is stable and emission-free energy. RES should complement nuclear energy in our energy mix, but it is never a full guarantee of our safety. If we don't provide it ourselves, that's just not gonna happen. And for you, climate policy has just become an ideology, and you forget what's profitable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u218	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's an awful lot of stuff. First of all, there is a new giant to which you will have to pay as much as to the Central Airport, which may never arise. This is the first case. Secondly, this is where the Left says that jobs are created. If instead of steel make Smokers, that's the number of jobs that would increase even more. The goal is to keep as few people working as possible, not as many people working as possible. I know the Left wants everyone to work their ass off like they did at the Bielomorkanale... As effectively as possible, sir, as effectively as possible. Once again: the aim of the economy is to reduce the number of jobs and not to increase the number of jobs. Thirdly, it is no longer necessary to discuss whether it is better if it is warm or better if it is cold. Better as it is warm, and global warming is beneficial, not unfavorable. It's crazy people, elites who decided to make money to scare people that if it's warm, it'll be bad. That's it. Fourthly, it doesn't make sense to pay for anything. If we can build coal power plants or, above all, nuclear power plants that my predecessor talked about, it's important that they're cheaper than politicians. Politicians stay away from energy. For this there are trades, for this there are industrialists who know how to build, and for those who build a better and cheaper power plant, they should be honored, carried on their hands, but not financed. Tell the Poles here, if we pay more for electricity, because it is not made of coal or is not made of atom, but it is from wind farms, of course, if they ever rise, because there will definitely be a company that will make them, and there will be salaries, bonuses, etc., it is obvious. But how much more power are we gonna pay for this? That's the first thing to say. The Pole should know how much it will cost us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u220	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Member, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What is the Baltic Sea Development Plan? Why are the companies that we have on the list... In fact, this bill is sewn under these companies. Some of them decided to invest in the border strip with Sweden, which greatly prolongs the acceptance process, environmental arrangements, etc. Do we have free space for other companies and will we also allow companies outside the European Union to enter the Baltic Sea, with certain capital, in order to achieve the 55% objective ? What is the financial shortcoming of those investments that are currently being carried out by entities that are related to this law? What will the support of the annual RES fee look like just for energy [[♪ The bell ♪]] Wind? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u223	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I must say that how vividly I see a picture from five years ago, when Law and Justice de facto killed wind energy by adopting absolutely unfavorable regulations in this regard. Today in the Chamber, I see no one who was coming out and very firmly behind the project that destroyed this important sector, which on the one hand was about the economy, but on the other hand provided energy security. But those windmills over there, they're gonna kill those windmills. Yeah, well, that's hypocrisy and total confusion on this government side. I have a question. There is, of course, a privileged group that today supports the rules that you bring. But what about private, independent companies that want to enter this market? It's clear he's here, though. [[♪ The bell ♪]] support only for those who are likely to be related to the majority. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u224	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This 11 GW in the future with the wind at sea is what we've been waiting for. When five years ago I asked the Minister responsible for energy issues, how he imagined renewable energy sources, cogeneration, he answered me this way: you know, we would like to have production, transmission and regulation in one hand. Since then, we have come a long way towards the proper development of energy, this energy mix and for being late, thank you. But it is also about experience, because our energy system flowed from the North Sea, which fed the German energy system. Therefore, I have a question: Are the nets that are currently planned for windmills sufficient for this transmission to be efficient so that it can be transmitted? Secondly, of course, there is also a question about the planned nuclear energy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't that in a collision? Are capacity, or capacity, sufficient to locate two types of energy: wind at sea and potentially nuclear energy, which is in our plans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm speaking here as an energy engineer. Therefore, I know that the key issue in our country's energy system is transmission networks and distribution networks, as my previous speaker pointed out. And stable. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister: Will the investment of Polish energy networks follow this ambitious plan to build wind power plants at sea? Because we know that today it is crucial that this energy can be introduced into the Polish system. Second thing. Does the government plan to prepare the so-called project in this respect. Corridor bill? Because energyists have a lot of problems with consent, about all plans, etc. If we do not shorten this in any way, it will unfortunately be a problem at all with correlation and with the construction of (The Bell) offshore farms and with the introduction of this energy into the transmission system and later distribution in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u229	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Since there's a reflection, I'd like to ask you a step further. Is the Government of the United Right - admitting that it was a mistake to freeze wind energy in 2016, while today the old permits are being built by government wind energy companies on land - intends to withdraw from this harmful law and is it going to give a boost back to the fact that local governments, which own land, will benefit from this, can create new jobs? Because, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time to reflect on the latter, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u230	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u231	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! If you are so tempted to name or evaluate the policy of the PIS against RES, it comes to mind only one thing: the fight against windmills. Only that the effectiveness is the same as Don Quixote and Sancho Pansy, but you don't have the romanticism of Cervantes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You started in 2015 with the murder of land wind power. You have created special conditions for marine energy, but since then no other regulations have gone under these special conditions. Then you found that it was better to bet on co-burning biomass and coal, and now just recently on biomass itself. You simply want to achieve this RES effect in the form of burning Polish forests. Similarly, you are ineffective in the fight against the European Union's (Bell) policy on renewable sources. First you fought the 40% reduction target, and now you've agreed to a 55% reduction. But how are you going to achieve it? As effective as Don Quixote and Sancho Pansa were fighting windmills? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u232	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u233	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill refers to the precise separation of the first and second phases of the support system. Electricity generators in offshore wind farms, who will be allowed into the support system, will be entitled to cover the so-called. a negative balance. [[Game in the O.R.]] Two ways of granting the right to cover the negative balance have been distinguished. The first phase of the scheme provides for entry until 31 June 2021. Hence my question. What is the reason for this date? Is she stiff? Is it possible to expect that time limit to be shifted? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u234	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, this is a very important law from the point of view of both economic development and the labour market. That is why I have a question: How will the labour market change after this law has been introduced? How many new jobs will be created? Ha, ha, ha! I would also like to ask you about this excellent program, because I have the impression that the opposition completely forgets about it, about the program, my current. Wind energy will have its share in the energy mix. And what does the implementation of this program look like today? What is the share of the energy mix produced by photovoltaic panels today, because we see that virtually at this moment on every other - maybe I am exaggerating - but very many buildings are fitted with panels? I also have a question: What did it look like back in the day? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Our predecessors? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u236	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u237	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Indeed, the only password is the fight against windmills, and it was always associated with the PiS. [[Applause]] When we prepared this law in 2015 and introduced it, the state kept throwing logs at its feet. The following years are no bands of your successes, just forcing, in terms of entrepreneurs, further solutions, further deadlines that need to be implemented. But, Minister, you're a representative of the RES government. I'd like to ask you, how do you see it? When will the first current flow from these wind farms? How will we implement this indicator that was imposed, which we imposed on ourselves - 21% RES by 2030? Will we achieve this share of energy from RES in the energy mix when it comes to gross consumption? Another question. You promised the Poles that there would be compensation for electricity. The electricity prices went up, the electricity went up. I would like to ask you if the Poles who were counting on what you promised [[♪ The bell ♪]] compensation for the increase in electricity, electricity, will receive this compensation, and if so, when. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u238	Thank you very much. Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska. I don't see a Member. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u239	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, in 2016 you finished wind energy in Poland. This law, which ordered the construction of windmills only in planning places, spatial planning and which defined a 10-fold maximum height in terms of the distance to the nearest building, finished many investments and led many investors to bankruptcy. And it's a pity because wind energy is good, it's cheaper above all - at the moment about 30 euros per MWh compared to 50 euros per MWh of coal energy. Unfortunately, Poland is at the gray end. In Denmark we have 41% wind energy, Germany - 21% , in Poland - only 8%. What's more, if you count the number of turbines we have and compare it to the number of turbines in Germany, that's it. 0,007% what's in Germany. Now you're trying to get on with it and make amends. However, as set out in the EU directive, those who wish to benefit from this law will have to submit their applications by 31 March. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is extremely little time. I would like to ask why you were so late in courting this law and whether such a deadline for submitting applications would not adversely affect the success of this law. Or is it really about future entrepreneurs not making these proposals and continuing to rely on coal? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation. Me? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! I have one rather specific question, because I also care about this, this is in my interest, namely the issue of national security and the safety of our seas. When you put a wind farm on the Baltic Sea, e.g. north of Rzewie, through some compaction of these windmills e.g. Navy radars may have trouble detecting ships in the Baltic Sea, even between these windmills. Did the State, as an applicant, anticipate the solution to this problem as well? If so, how? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u242	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u243	Good morning, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I managed to make it, and I heard a friend in PiS asking you about new jobs. And I'm gonna ask about old jobs. [[Applause]] You've been to Szczecin and Świnoujście lately. I would like to ask you about these windmills that we are talking about today, which we are going to bet on, whether they are going to build companies that you have already selected, whether you will have in mind companies such as ST3 Offshore in Szczecin, which was built and bought by the State Treasury for more than PLN 100 million, dedicated specifically to this industry. This is a factory that was going to build foundations for farms, underwater wind farms. Is she also included in this project, and will people finally start working in it, because it is a wealth, a powerful fortune, for the powerful millions that stand empty? Second question. You were also in Świnoujście. Here's the thing. The Świnoujście Gryphie you know. Wouldn't it be possible to take this part of Gryfia's pig yard into this project? You were also in Świnoujście, talking about the development of the Świnoujski port as dedicated to windmills. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Are there any plans to place these main objectives in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, in Szczecin and in Świnoujście? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u244	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about the competitiveness of the Polish economy, namely the huge part of the costs of the industry are electricity costs. Therefore, I would like to ask how the construction of wind farms will affect the energy costs and therefore the competitiveness of the Polish economy. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to cite an example, a bad example, but unfortunately this has happened. Namely, the President of Warsaw, Mr.Rafal Trzaskowski recently, some time ago, chose Korean trams instead of trams from Bydgoszcz, Polish PESA plants. I would like to ask if the same selection method will be awarded for the construction of wind farms. Whether they will simply build Polish companies or Korean companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or German? Thank you. [[Applause]] Polish have been...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u246	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, the representative of the government for renewable energy sources, Mr Ireneusz Oda, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, I would like to begin by thanking you very much for this discussion. I would also like to thank all of you for your work in the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets yesterday. Let me remind you that the committee adopted the bill, there were 28 votes in favour, 0 abstentions, 0 votes against. This also shows the importance of this project, which is important for the Polish economy. I don't have much time, and there were a lot of questions I'd like to answer. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must say - I will start by asking Mr Piotr Nowak - that when it comes to the spatial planning plan in the Baltic Sea, any company can apply for projects in offshore wind energy. There are no restrictions here. With regard to the question of Mr Mirosław Suchon, what about projects involving companies of the State Treasury, absolutely all entities can participate in this without restrictions. As far as the implementation of these projects in offshore wind energy is concerned, at the moment... Perhaps I will also refer to Mr Pavel Papke's question at the same time. First and second phases of support, state aid, differential contract. Why can the President of the Energy Regulatory Office only spend until 30 March? This is directly due to the content of the RED II Directive, which indicates that from the middle of next year only a competitive system in RES auctions can apply, as is the case now in energy, as we use in terrestrial energy, various renewable energy technologies. From next year, as of 1 July, only the auction system is mandatory. Therefore, the granting of public aid in an administrative manner can end by decision of the President of the Energy Regulatory Office only until 30 June next year. With regard to the projects that are being prepared today, the most advanced, we know five such projects. Among them are also projects involving companies of the State Treasury, but also private entities. I may not name names, but there are others. large private Polish company, which is the most advanced with the project at 0.5 GW power level. I think it lies to those claims which the Members of the opposition have tried to present. With regard to Anna April's question, I will say very briefly, because this does not apply to the same law. Ladies and gentlemen, I disagree that the Government of Law and Justice is fighting against windmills. Firstly, in the context of the RES auction, which was carried out in 2018, 2019 and 2020, it just ended, on December 3, 4,2 was contracted. GW power... How many new windmills have been built? ...in wind farms on land. We've already got more than 6 GW of power in the mix. In total, this will give us more than 10 GW of power, which will be realized in the next 2 years. In addition, there is the "My current" programme, which was asked by the Member. We exceeded 3.5 GW of installed capacity in photovoltaic installations this September. Plus, ladies and gentlemen, there's over 360 grand. Prosumers. Let's compare this with December 2015, when these prosumers were just a little over 4.5,000. And when that's... Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are approaching 400,000. I want you to compare these sizes. So that this information promoted by you, that we are fighting windmills, is absolutely untrue. How can you compare photovoltaics to... I will say, ladies and gentlemen, which is also very important that there were other technologies in 2016. Today we have more advanced, larger turbines with a capacity of 4 MW, and those that will be built at sea, now available, are 12 MW and more. These are huge installations that will power the Polish economy. Mr Paweł Rychlik asked about competitiveness. This will, of course, increase the competitiveness of the Polish economy. Access to high power (Bingle) installed, generating so-called. green energy will improve the situation of Polish companies producing, Polish economic operators, which will be able to export to the most lucrative European and global markets Polish products with just green energy. Mrs. Marshal! I don't know if it would be okay if I could extend it a few more seconds... If a few seconds, please, but actually very briefly. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: A few seconds. Electric compensation, Minister. As far as infrastructure issues are concerned, Mr Jarosław Rzepa asked about stakeholders' issues, and then there were questions about ST3 company, about Gryfia, of course I was in the Szczecin-Świnoujście port team. As for the deadline, we are assuming the implementation of offshore wind energy by 2040 and beyond 2050, also in the European Union's energy strategy. The development of this sector of the Baltic economy is expected to reach over 90 GW of capacity. Poland has great potential. The first installation terminal should be located on the central coast because the first farms will be built in Ławica Słupska, at the height of Słupska. Certainly in the following years this area will develop west towards Szczecin, Sławica Odrzańska. I think that in the following years, in the late 20's, early 30's, all ports - both the Szczecin-Świnoujście port team and the Gdańsk-Gdynia port team, smaller ports such as Władysławowo, Ustka, which can be service ports - will have a great chance to carry out these projects to operate offshore wind farms. I will say that the value of the financial flow determined by experts in this industry is estimated in total in the installed capacity of 11 GW for about 130 billion PLN. More than 77 thousand are also to be created. new jobs, mainly in Central Pomerania, but not only. In the years to come, such companies, today world tycoons, such as the Telefonica, which supplies cables to extract power from farms in the UK, the Netherlands, Germany, will also work for Polish energy in the Baltic. We also include political leadership in this sector of the economy. On 30 September, at the invitation of Minister Michael Kurtyki, his counterparts from the Baltic countries, including the European Commission, arrived in Szczecin, and the Baltic Declaration on cooperation for the development of offshore wind energy in the Baltic Sea was signed. In this area, we are and will be the leader. We will achieve the renewable energy target, the renewable energy target for 2030. This will also help us to achieve the objective of reducing economic emissions. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much to all parliamentarians. I even understand the voices a little pinchy or critical from the opposition, but as everyone emphasized, it is a act of good, needed for Poland, for our energy system, for the Polish economy. Thank you for the positive vote. I ask the High House to support this bill in the vote, along with the amendments that have been tabled today by the Member of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice. I had the opportunity to sit here on the bench and look at these corrections. I believe that they are of all means desirable and worthy of support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] ...to be shot off.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u248	Thank you. The discussion is closed. Amendments were tabled in the discussion and a request for a third reading was made without referring the draft law to the committee. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws (prints No. 828, A and 836). I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u249	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The Marshal of the Sejm addressed the bill to the Committee on Public Finance on 9 December and this was the first reading that took place yesterday at the committee meeting. The Commission has quite thoroughly and very substantively worked through the entire draft of this law and, interestingly and requiring my emphasis as rapporteur, this has been done in a very good atmosphere. This act of COVID is one of many that we are investigating in the Polish Parliament. As you can see, we are already coming to a point where we really know that Poles, citizens are waiting for a lot of changes, which is why yesterday we were working on the bill, as I said, in a very calm and substantive way. Members have tabled amendments to the bill and asked for minority proposals as applicants. There are six of them: Mrs Gill-Friday, these were three, even four amendments, Mr Owl and Mrs Friday, five and one amendment by Mr Owl. They are included in the report. The Commission proposes that the High Sejm adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Sowa, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. No, no, no, another one. Just one more minute, Marshal, okay? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And do you represent Law and Justice? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're welcome, but you didn't report it to the office. You're welcome, sir. You haven't been reported, which is why I don't have you on the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present a position towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The amendment of this law results from the need to ensure the functioning of further sectors of the economy and the introduction of solutions to improve the functioning of state bodies. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 The changes concern the remuneration of the staff of the institutional foster care. Amendment to Article 15 introduces the possibility of paying parking benefits to persons who have not so far benefited from this benefit. The amendment allows the validity of airport certificates during the period of pandemic status and new allowances to the Civil Aviation Authority during that period. Further amendments allow for the provision of support to rail passenger transport operators and public service bus operators. The Act also amends the powers of the Radiation Protection Supervisor and extends the duration of the certificates issued confirming the qualifications in the operation of networks, equipment and energy installations. The new rules allow funds of PLN 120 million to be transferred to support the cinematographic industry. The changes introduced also concern a reduction in the cost of non-interest-bearing loans during the pandemic. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 changes have been made to the military medical committees. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 amendments have been made to the Law on Higher Education and Science. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice submitted to this bill an amendment, which the committee had given a positive opinion. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this draft be adopted together with the amendments to the votes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u252	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's next installment of the COVID aid tranche. I've been checking on those COVID laws lately. November 26th this year We've heard these words: Today we're implementing a 2.0 shield. That's at least PLN 35.40 billion. That's what Mateusz Morawiecki said, announcing the financial shield and the industry shield. He added that the aid was to cover, among others. tourism, gastronomy and culture. On December 10, just two weeks later, further announcements were made: For entrepreneurs of the most vulnerable industries we propose new instruments to support. Jarosław Gowin - Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Development, Work and Technology said so about the 6.0 shield. I've checked, I've searched, and I'm telling you I didn't find it. I didn't find shield 3.0, I didn't find shield 4.0, I didn't find shield 5.0. But it's not about the shield. The point here is, in fact, whether there is real aid for entrepreneurs affected by the second wave of the outbreak of Cortipinus, who are affected by the exclusion of entire sectors of the economy by government administrative decisions. That support just doesn't exist. You're talking about tens of billions of help, which is really just in the propaganda of Law and Justice politicians, and it doesn't really exist. However, what do we have in this shield, in this COVID act, because it is difficult to call it a shield that was submitted to the Sejm? We have, for example. regulations governing the sending of troops to peace missions outside our country. This, of course, has nothing to do with COVID, but it shows that you are simply using every such element to make whatever is in the ministerial lockers, in the ministerial offices, use and throw into this one sack, because it is known that it is adopted in a special mode. The real support is actually PLN 120 million: for cinema, for scholarships, for promotion of films, for the completion of the production of films that have been launched. In fact, this is the only element of support for the cultural sector that has been highlighted in this shield. The rest is an indeterminate funding. Although the Act gives the possibility to grant compensation to PKP PLK for reduced revenues from the use of railway infrastructure, it is possible to transfer subsidies for railway transport or bus services, but there is no financial guarantee here. If it's enough, it will be. This really does not calm down neither carriers nor all those who have struggled with enormous financial problems over the past year. But it is completely incomprehensible to me why the state from this shield, through which you compensate for the loss of transport companies or carriers in bus transport, completely excluded urban transport. I mean, this is insane. What are the worse for those who provide services to local governments? That is why we are proposing a number of amendments. After all, we wondered whether this shield would not completely change and introduce elements of real support for the very affected sectors. However, we have found that it is better to submit a draft programme of comprehensive support for those sectors that have been severely affected by the second wave of crisis: gastronomy, hotels and tourism. That is why today we have placed a specific bill in your hands, which is a real support for those who are most disadvantaged, which shows the possibility of financing a number of projects, particularly in terms of job protection. In addition to the submission of the government, we make a few amendments to the law in question. These amendments concern the guarantees of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for enterprises that want to benefit from guarantees or guarantees of repayment of the loan. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are introducing the possibility of including urban transport in this funding. We're introducing a possibility... We remove the obligation to install fiscal cash registers in time, even for gastronomy. It is really not the time and the time for those who are facing enormous problems today to have fiscal money from 1 January. This period needs to be extended by a year. Finally, we also introduce an amendment to the possibility of shifting back in time, the possibility of including into the costs of unearned loans, as the banks have, as they have SKOKI. There is no reason for companies or economic operators to be unable to include in the costs of unearned loans that will never be repaid. That is why this is a package of our amendments to this law. I hope that the politicians of Law and Justice, in order to improve the lives of people at least in this regard, will take into account what I ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u254	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left. Are you an MP?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You can see that Christmas is behind the belt, because the government has served us a bill that is like a bigos - full of diversity. Here even the issue of an ongoing pandemic is not a binder linking the amendments, linking these novels, because some are not at all about the need to bring the rules into line with the particular situation we are in today. Even the Legislative Office paid attention to the exceptional thematic spread of these regulations. In this brief speech, I would like to draw attention to three issues from many of the issues raised in this law. Line one. At the committee meeting, our amendments were rejected, which prevented the use of extraordinary rules to manipulate working time and to indicate a resting place for workers. Under the cover of the pandemic, you want to turn the Poles' workplaces into labor camps. That's unacceptable. The left is standing and will always stand on the side of the workers, and will never agree to such a right. Prime Minister! Do you really want to deprive Polish workers of their rights and dignity? If so, tell that to the Poles and Poles today, right here in this room. The left has made a request from the minority on this matter. Line two. We have tabled amendments to stop evictions during the pandemic and you have also rejected them. This is another interesting symptom of social sensitivity, so at this very time, during the ongoing pandemic, when the government organizes information campaigns to convince people to stay in their homes and reduce social contacts, you want to allow people to be thrown out of their homes. Not from their homes, from illegally occupied homes. All evictions must be completely stopped immediately. During the pandemic, people must feel safe. If the authorities want to expropriate anyone now, they should be required to provide a replacement place of the same size and standard. Finally, the third question concerning bus transport. I think it is a good thing that the need to finance this public transport is finally recognised. It's just a shame you guys did it your way again, without consulting the specialists. You have based subsidies on funding the maintenance of the communication line, which, according to experts, will lead to artificial maintenance of the line with one connection per week in order to receive the aid. At the same time, this support will avoid part of school transport and lines that operate on the basis of new authorisations issued in 2020. There's no information on the new lines that didn't work before. Will they get backup, and if so, how high? We are now placing an amendment on your hands, Marshal. There is a need for meaningful support for this industry, as it will help survive bus transport, whose operation will also be necessary to implement the National vaccination programme. Because once the program starts, people from smaller towns, especially older ones, must have some way of getting vaccinated, and the bus is often the only communication link available to these residents. I appeal to the parliamentary majority here. Please take a look at the proposed amendments, because they are simply beneficial for Poles and Poles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u256	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you for the correction. And please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u257	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In the first words, I would like to refer to what we are looking at, i.e. the prints 828 and 828-A. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a pity that instead of a 6.0 shield... If we had carried out a proper legislative process and had talked to entrepreneurs, if we had listened to those who were practically affected, we probably wouldn't have to share Poles again. We subdued them, ladies and gentlemen, what? GDP. For those who are better, and for those who are worse. And today life shows that in many areas, ladies and gentlemen, there are human tragedies. From the good words I can say, ladies and gentlemen, as regards this proposal - it is good that you have finally thought about transport by road, about transport by bus. It's a pity, as my colleague here pointed out, that you didn't think that urban communication was also affected by pandemics in cities. I think it's an oversight. You might still be able to fix it. It's a good thing you're talking about railroads, you're talking about airports. But, ladies and gentlemen, once again, I appeal to the fact that the only determinant of this difficult situation is the loss, which is undoubtedly proven in many companies. She's the one who should be part of whether or not someone deserves help. It would not be, ladies and gentlemen, what is on our streets today, i.e. protests. Taxi drivers. I'm going to talk about the industry that you probably didn't think about at all: fruit and vegetable wholesalers. Ladies and gentlemen, they've lost nearly 70%. revenue. We have closed hotels, spas, from many small shops we have moved to discounts, Ladybronki, Lidla, we do not know where yet, and these wholesalers, ladies and gentlemen, employ people, ba, have contracts with farmers, which are subject to receipt of goods at the right time and at the right price. What does our government say? Of course, it is very restrictive to settle contracts. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Coalition Poland Club, we are making a number of amendments that will take into account those areas of functioning of our country that you have left out, I do not know whether out of sneakiness, envy, but they are also our entrepreneurs, who pay taxes each year under normal conditions, invest, want to develop, but also want to think about the future. I'm gonna talk about the taxi industry, the ladies and gentlemen who protested yesterday, but the protest won't stop. These people really lost a huge part of their income because you closed hotels, different kinds of theatres, movies, today they drive much less passengers. People take out their businesses in a massive way. May it not be so, ladies and gentlemen, that in difficult situations, when these people often help save lives, we will witness drama. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself once again, on behalf of the Polish Coalition, to submit amendments to the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u258	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u259	No one remembers which one is the cover and which one is the shield. I would remind you that since the government announced in February that we were completely prepared for a pandemic, we are still doing nothing but further laws preparing us for a further pandemic. I am pleased that the definition I have adopted concerning the methodology used for this law: the legislative technique of bigos has been pierced by the speeches of other Members. From the chronicle duty, I note that since the last speech on this subject in the previous session, in which I calculated the countries in Europe that we have already chased away in terms of the number of dead on COVID, we have chased away another rival, i.e. the Netherlands, and so, as I said from the beginning, we will all ultimately achieve similar results, only some at a greater cost and some at a lower cost. The entire huge economic sacrifice by bankrupt citizens in the spring served only to delay the inevitable, and in the end it would probably turn out to be the same. In the next patch on these shields, the main thing is that the government pays so much attention to various social programs, while the entire sectors of the economy are overboard. Well, to hell with the gastronomy facilities, the laundry industry, hotelers, taxi drivers, gym owners, it's important that the integration programs work full steam. The government sees, of course, the legitimate needs of its own authorities when emptying public premises, whereas owners of private premises often have to hang out with non-paying tenants for years, because the government often protects the intruder more than the owner. Entrepreneurs in many industries would probably want the government to pay as much attention to them as it does to the specific problems of aviation and public transport. You can see that the distance from the minister's ear matters. By the way, it can also be seen that the prescriptive and resolution economy that everyone has been building in our country for years, in difficult situations, is simply inefficient and requires an immediate, continuous change of regulation, because without these changes, without new laws, everything would fall apart in circumstances that the government did not foresee. It is also a warning that any rigid regulation under unforeseen circumstances only causes problems, and the government often seems to know everything about what it is trying to regulate, and in fact, its knowledge is usually limited. I would like to draw attention to the fact that urban bus transport is still very low on tickets, for example. Taxi drivers, laundromats, hotels, ski instructors and thousands of other industries must live entirely on what they get from their customers. The passenger in communication is more disturbing than it helps, and so most of the money comes from a grant from the city, not from tickets, so it is helping those who least need it. We have some interesting machinations here. The infrastructure manager is venting the carriers, and the government will finance the infrastructure manager for it, so they all support each other as long as this is happening within the limits of the government's influence. Interestingly, I read with astonishment that the COVID training on radiological protection was suspended. And the question is, how are they supposed to protect us from nuclear radiation when they can't protect themselves from infection with the virus during such training. I really doubted the meaning of this cell. I am also pleased that COVID has forced state institutions to accelerate their digitalisation. We have further changes regarding the ZUS consisting of the use of a printed signature. We also have, of course, the casuistics brought to date, which means that again we need to change some provisions from 2020 to 2021, as if we could not immediately write that this is about the state of the epidemic, and do not change this every year, because if we drag the epidemic back to 2022, we will once again adopt another law stating that in 2022 there is something there, something there. Why? Finally, in the explanatory memorandum, I was very pleased to see that, in terms of the economy, uncertainty about the government's actions, this economy paralyzes that the government notes that its hard-to-predict movements cause people not to want to invest, fear to invest, do not know what awaits them in a moment, what the government will shut down and what the government will open. That's why the whole economy is suffering. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u260	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My friend Sosnierz has already said a lot of what I wanted to say. However, I note that what the government does usually has exactly the opposite effect than the government would like. If the government e.g. creating jobs somewhere, there is much more job loss elsewhere when it comes to jobs in the economy at all. As long as we're losing government activity in the economy, we're losing a few hundred billion a year because the government was doing something in the economy, a few hundred billion, people are dying here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But that's what I'm gonna ask when I ask questions, because I don't have time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u262	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. One minute to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Urban communication, which is co-financed by local authorities, is in a very difficult situation. Municipal companies that deal with communication have huge losses, and local governments are unable to help them financially because COVID has actually ruined local government finances. My question: Why - because there is no rational justification - in this draft law urban communication was left without any support, without any help? I ask for a specific answer so that the local government can answer why the government does this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u264	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u265	Thank you kindly. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, these successive shields are basically not known why they are numbered, because these numbers somehow break out of order and appear higher and higher, which does not correspond to reality. But I understand that these are the laws of propaganda. It is also difficult not to recognise that this project also has elements that are rather propaganda and can harm people. The issue of eviction. Minister, the construction of the Central Communication Port - we all know that it's mostly about the fact that those who hold high positions are erasing a lot of money. On the other hand, you want to introduce rules that, as part of the epidemic, will allow the expropriation of those who expect dignified treatment and dignified compensation. Why don't you like these people so much that you want to expropriate them on the basis of the COVID without maintaining the right conditions? The second thing is a tourist voucher. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You extend the definition of this voucher so that people can benefit from it as part of 1-day events, i.e. organizers of pilgrimages, but you hit these in tourist resorts based on your stay. Why don't you like tourist destinations so much, and what will you do for entrepreneurs from these towns, from Beskidy, from the Tatras to help them? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u266	Thank you, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The media has just reported that the national carrier LOT is expected to receive aid of around 2.4 billion. It's still less than requested. You are pointing out in this act that rail and bus carriers are also to receive similar support, and there are no criteria that may, I say, show these companies how this support would look. On the other hand, the issue of airports that are in great difficulty is completely ignored, and it is not necessarily because of this situation, but also because of certain events, for example. for compensation for the recognition that airports are a zone which affects the value of the property around the airport zone. I think these airports - for example. airport in Poznan - require urgent assistance, because if it does not stop in a statutory manner [[♪ The bell ♪]] settled in this case, it may turn out that the level of claims, pending cases plus interest will cause this airport, this airport will simply go bankrupt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u268	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about a specific issue, namely the support for the bus industry for the financing of the maintenance of the bus line. The line gives a very narrow scope for interpretation, as it refers de facto to the route of the bus and the communication network refers to the layout of the communication lines in the area concerned. If there may be changes in the route, shortening or extension of communication lines within the network, then we can continue to talk about maintaining the network, e.g. by comparing operational work, i.e. the total number of kilometres carried out. Why, then, is such a choice, which from the perspective of carriers, from the perspective of the inhabitants of the public transport sector, unfavorable? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u270	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u271	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This is another law on the fight against pandemics or the protection of Polish companies in relation to pandemics. There are many very important solutions here, but I have a question: Why is this another law that ignores the food industry and the fitness industry? These are two sectors, two very important sectors of the economy, which seems to have hit the pandemic the hardest. Every day there is information about the fact that other restaurants are being closed, that other people are being fired. That's the help that's missing. Nor is there any reason why these industries have been treated so restrictively. After all, both industries are ready to introduce sharpenings, restrictions. You don't have to shut them down, you don't have to suspend their activities to keep them safe. It is clear that the government did not rely on expertise in the decision to close or exclude these industries, but [[♪ The bell ♪]] Someone closer to unwarranted criteria. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u272	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. I don't see your MP. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u273	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This proposal you have made concerns also the public blood service. I would therefore like to ask whether these solutions, which are making changes in this area, are sufficient. Perhaps this is an area which primarily concerns the Minister of Health, but whether appropriate incentives have been created, also within the framework of the bioethical conventions to which Poland is party, so-called. Incentivize health care professionals to give plasma, which is a medicine, one of the medicines available to help them heal faster? The last point is whether the legislation you are proposing is an appropriate response to issues relating to cultural institutions. We have dealt with quite controversial grants, which were carried out by Minister Gliński and the Ministry of Sport, Culture and National Heritage recently. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is such action towards the affected group, however it may be, as a result of pandemic measures, sufficiently regulated? Were there appropriate consultations with this industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u274	Thank you, sir. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My first question is this: Why couldn't you all adopt all these regulations and programmes in one law, just like you do in other European countries, but you have to constantly improve something, change it, try to figure it out? The fact that Poles don't trust you is obviously not our problem, but I'll tell you why they don't trust you. They don't trust you because you're still lying. Today, Mrs Pamuła from this speaker said that there are no closed industries in Poland, no excluded sectors. Madam President, it is important to remind you that the event, entertainment, tourism, hotels, restaurants are closed, and taxi drivers do not have anything to pay concessions from. The Member has spit in the face of all these people today, saying that everything is great and everything is open. Back to the bill: it involves help for the cinematographic industry, a closed nomen omen too. I'm asking if it wouldn't be better to just open this business. As suggested, for example. Professor Simon, there are supposed to be between 4 million, 6 million and 10 million healthy people who could use this without any sanitary rigour, and for the rest of us, some kind of sanitary regime could be introduced. Since casinos and churches are open, and... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tadeusz Rydzyk according to the health department doesn't break any restrictions by having parties, so maybe you need to open this industry instead of spending money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u276	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u277	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is sloppy, and it hurts people. I will ignore that point 5 of the article. 1 indicates forced work whenever employers wish to do so, e.g. electricians, miners, radiator manufacturers and Castorama employees, if you read this recipe literally. But the biggest disgrace in this law is point 8 of Article. 1, which - and this is indicated in the explanatory memorandum - by one case, when it was impossible to deal with the person who lived on the path of the planned investment, causes uncontrolled evictions to start throughout Poland, although in fact you introduced earlier, arguing that this was indicated in the epidemic, a provision that protected people from being evicted on the pavement. It's just a terrible idea, and I'm asking you to step away from it. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u278	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u279	Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to protest against the formulation that falls from the mouths of the rulers, about helping entrepreneurs. Well, entrepreneurs don't need any help, entrepreneurs need it not to bother them, and then they'll do just fine. Unfortunately, the state has been disturbing them for years with a thicket of bureaucracy, regulation, horrendous taxes, orders, bans, and in recent months it has been disturbing them with extremely chaotic, absurd sharpenings and actual lockdowns. The government should take responsibility for this and compensate businesses, not aid. Start talking fair and square about compensation, not help, don't make beggars out of yourselves, don't make beggars out of business. Because you are not gracious, you are responsible for this situation, as Kisielewski said: it is not a crisis, it is the result, the result of your decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u280	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As Sosnierz and I have said, government actions generally do nothing good, and sometimes even harmful things, but we lose billions, but now it is about human life. Does the government realize that because it saves people with COVID, it kills thousands of other people a day? That's why. I warned you in March, I warned you in April that if hospitals were only for patients with COVID, the mortality of other people would increase in six months. At the moment, people don't die of COVID, and COVID dies of an average number of people, while other diseases die of 1,000. more people than normal. This is what you do, this is what the government does. [[Applause]] If you hadn't done anything, about as many people would have died of COVID, but other diseases would have been killed by 1,000 a day. less people. You've got blood on your hands because you've acted in the best faith because you're stupid. [[Applause]] The left-wing opposition applauds, and she did exactly the same. You guys can't help yourselves either. You have to do something. Berkovicz beats. Berkovicz applauds, sir. He has to. You're the ones with the blood on your hands. Thank you. We'll add that the Left was beating. But who?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u282	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Noblekhta, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't think many people who have spoken have read this project. The claim that the draft revision of the COVID Act does not contain any specific provisions that bring compensation for the negative effects of the pandemic is not true. The sum of 120 million for cinema is written down enumeratively. There is also a provision that for transport undertakings which carry out public road transport, compensation is foreseen for railway undertakings. This has a specific financial impact. I think the Minister will talk about it. The minister didn't know yesterday. He couldn't tell. I think he knows. On the other hand, I am amazed at what my colleague said, saying that this bill (the bell) is forcing people to go to jail. Minister, is there really such a record in this bill? Thank you. Finally, I wanted to make amendments on behalf of the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u284	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition. To this point? Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I've been surprised a few times in this room. I was surprised again today because I have to say the same thing as my fellow Confederate colleagues. Don't talk about any help, because you don't give any help to entrepreneurs. This is at most a fraction of the compensation that you owe to all entrepreneurs for blowing up their businesses that they worked for after 20, 30 years. [[Applause]] For the fact that some of them really don't have now, before Christmas, what to put in the pot. For making these people miserable, and they worked 12, 14, 16 hours in their little businesses. And don't tell me that you're helping in any way, because every month we've been in this room making some bill, one shield, the other one, seven, ten, and all of these are broken thrushes that will always leave someone out. And if you're given good advice about solutions that can cover all entrepreneurs, you don't use them. I will say again: in Poland all sectors fall, no matter what [[♪ The bell ♪]] They have a number, except for the grocery store, the liquor store and the pharmacies. All these industries need to be helped. Fire the people completely from the ZUS by March 2021. This is gonna be the first real help. Change the way you grant PFR subsidies, so it's not returnable. It's non-refundable. It'll be real help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u286	Thank you very much, sir. One final question, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The difficult times of the epidemic we have today are not the times for throwing people out of their homes for any reason, and especially because of some megalomaniac investment by Prime Minister Morawiecki. Therefore, in a number of amendments that we have tabled to this law, one of the key ones is the one that removes the possibility of throwing people out of the house during the epidemic because you want to build a Central Communication Port. The second very important amendment concerns catering. Today it's a completely excluded industry, which makes a small amount of money on delivery food ordered to go. In fact, the profits that generate in this way are a drop in the sea of needs. You guys are gonna charge this industry by forcing it to exchange tax cash until the end of the year. I said, why? If there's practically nothing to record there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's our amendment. Really, Minister, lean on her. We dismiss this obligation by a year, both for the catering industry, which should exchange cash at the end of the year, as well as for cosmetics, hairdressers who will have to do so in the middle of the year. It's really hard for everyone. No investment is needed today for these industries. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u288	Thank you, Member. I ask the Minister - a member of the Council of Ministers of Mr Łukasz Schreiber to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u289	My dear Miss Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! High Izbo! One thing you can be sure of. Every time you discuss draft laws that are related to the pandemic of Coronavirus, the state on the left side of the room is trying to make one of them - one of them is stronger - a filipica. Let others speak of their level. High Izbo! I'll try to refer to those few charges. You can see how interested some of them were. So eagerly speaking as a question, they did not even wait for the answer. But that's also no surprise. The Civic Coalition is present. Great. As far as aid to entrepreneurs is concerned, the majority of this discussion has been focused on this. Ladies and gentlemen, of course you always have great ideas. I mean, you always think you have great ideas. Only that you admit, even here you quietly admitted, that these solutions of the government are good. Of course, you can't say that when you go out on the stand. When you go out on the floor, you cannot say that the government is supposed to be doing nothing, it is said that everything is terrible, and the effect is that today unemployment in Poland is one of the two lowest in the whole European Union. You're the best in the world. Yeah, all over the Union. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. The truth is what none of you will say, of course, that industrial production in the European Union has increased most in Poland. The truth you will not say is that between November 2019 and November 2020 employment has increased in the European Union from among the medium and large countries only in Poland. The truth that we will not hear to you is that the recession in Poland is, of course, worldwide, but in the European Union is the lowest in Poland, sir. The first government that led to the recession. Yeah, well, congratulations on your common sense when you say that. And now for the specifics you've been talking about. Real help, which I'm told you can't see. It is not so obvious that more than 160 billion have already gone to help entrepreneurs, but only you have not noticed it. The truth is that within the financial shield, the 2.0 target, which was mentioned, is prepared over PLN 35 billion - 3 billion for micro-enterprises, 7 billion for the SME sector, 25 billion for large companies. We are waiting for the consent of the European Commission and are ready to begin this assistance immediately. I would like to remind you that in the first round of this aid went to companies over 60 billion, on average the time taken to deal with applications was 2 days. Unfortunately, you also miss the truth, saying, by giving such opinions, that everything is closed, everything falls down. I do not know whether you know that about 200,000 have been registered in CEIDG from January to December of this year. new activities. As for the taxi drivers that were asked about here, of course they were taken into account, but - as someone has said - you do not have time to read the laws, you have to deal with other things. If you'd read these laws, you'd know that the ZUS exemption was prepared for them. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Unfortunately, you were the one who asked these questions. If you read the laws, you'd know that when it comes to laundry, gastronomy and the fitness industry, they're all included in the industry shield signed by the president yesterday. ...there isn't. Of course they are. You just don't know what you're voting for. And this is support, which consists not only in non-refundable several thousand grants, but in the exemption from the Social Security Office, this is support, which consists in helping and covering the parking, benefit fund. So all these mechanisms are being implemented in this case. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the purpose of such speeches? What does it serve to say that [[♪ The bell ♪]] how these laws are unprepared, that something must be changed all the time? Ladies and gentlemen, over the course of this year the situation has changed several times and the government has responded. Is it supposed to be locked up all the time? Is that what you're saying? You're telling me how badly this is done. Then give us good examples. Give examples of countries where everything was well done and which we could imitate. Because they're all in the same situation. It just doesn't work any better than we do in Poland. [[Game in the O.R.]] Thank you very much. So a little more of that national pride, too. I think the rest of the questions, because the other part of the serious questions were about infrastructure, will be answered by Minister Bittel. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u290	I ask Minister Andrzej Bittel to answer the questions. But as the Minister himself pointed out, the bill was signed yesterday, and the problem with helping entrepreneurs is almost a year, it will soon be a year, so it's quite late this help comes. [[Applause]] Bravo, Marshal! You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, four hours in committee and you could say that we still don't understand each other or we don't understand each other very well. The first point I wanted to raise is the issue of aid to the public transport sector and the lack of aid for public transport, as stated here. You probably know that I am convinced that the relief law we refer to in these regulations does not apply to public transport. You know that the local government that conducts urban communications conducts its own relief policy and finances it. So for these two simple and obvious reasons, these principles cannot be added here, and this is obvious to anyone who has an elementary knowledge of the rules in this regard. I would like to point out that we are expanding aid where there are public service contracts, including municipal and district lines - the state has not noticed this, and it is worth noting this - in rail transport. The criteria for this aid are known and described in the Act and I find it difficult to agree that they are missing. These are well described criteria and applied to the rail sector for months now, in the case of bus transport they will apply from the entry into force of the Act, from 1 January. Clear and legible provisions will allow this to be applied correctly in terms of aid. The subsidy in question for reliefs is a total amount of nearly PLN 1 billion, which will go to rail transport and bus transport. So it's worth noticing. She's not in the OSR. There is an OSR in the Act, such a table, where it is said that this money is secured in the budget for 2021, and you probably already know that, because the budget is the subject of the High House. It is particularly painful for me personally, but I think that for anyone who has an elementary sense of responsibility for the word and an elementary knowledge of the law, which are applied in the case of procedures relating to the execution of public-purpose investments, the conduct of linear or cubature investments, but above all linear investments, because of these here we are talking about some change, the taking away of rights to people whose property is supposed to be taken away. Perhaps the current wording of the Article should be known. 15zzu, which says that during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic condition declared due to COVID-19, no implementing titles for emptying the dwelling are implemented. This provision was adopted before the protective period. There is a protective period, people must not be thrown out on the street in the event of a public-purpose investment. They need to be secured. This is the ruling of the Constitutional Court of 2017, after all, everyone in this Chamber knows it, I assume. And these words about shame are simply an expression of the lack of elementary knowledge of how these processes are going on. And in such a situation it is also difficult to talk about it calmly, because any administrative process that comes to that point where a person does not want to leave his premises is a difficult situation. This is usually solved in earlier stages. There aren't many of these cases, so saying there's only one, there's enough too, I'd say, frivolous approach to the subject, saying there's going to be mass evictions, it's just a really incredible thing and you can't say that. I would also like to mention to you the examples that are at stake. You don't have time. I think your marshal will allow it, because it's important. Branch of the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways in Cracow, rejected proposal of a replacement premises, compensation paid in full. Another example, rejected proposal for a replacement place, compensation paid in full. Warsaw (Dzwonek), the owner of the company was offered a refund of the replacement premises, paid an advance of 70% the amount of compensation. It's that kind of thing, not that it's... People have the right, of course, to demand fair compensation, but also to pursue investment processes, there is no question of mass scale. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u292	Thank you very much. Correct, Marshal. Here you are, Mr Remembrance. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u293	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I am speaking to Minister Bittel, who is now heading for the exit. After all, we were very clear about the Central Communication Port. Do you know what's going on in the Central Communication Port? It is known by the ruling majority, the whole opposition, but probably the whole of Poland. There mostly high officials cancel very high salaries every month, and this is happening in CPK. And you're writing into a law where there's supposed to be some kind of incident legislation, addressed only to situations that require immediate action during the epidemic, the CPK, which everyone knows today is just something that's supposed to allow some people to get their money out. That's where it happens, and it's sad, and I don't understand it, because it allows the government to say that it's taking advantage of a situation, a difficult situation... Thank you very much. ...to such wicked actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u294	As the second reading was reported... One word. Then you're welcome, Mr... And can I correct it if the Minister referred directly to my statement? Excuse me, Minister, maybe the Member, and then the Minister, so we can have it in one shot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u295	Minister, the railway component of the CPK will concern Poland as a whole, almost all voivodships, so what are you telling us here that this will not be mass evictions? Really, before you accuse someone of incompetence, don't show yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u296	Thank you very much. There you go, Minister Bittel speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u297	Thank you very much. I knew that, of course, you would refer to the railway component and to the CPK initiative at all, because you do not accept it. I'm the one who can even understand. No, she's misguided. On the other hand, if you are to say that the introduction of this exception will result in that... You can judge that this is an investment carried out one way or another. It's your right. That's what everyone sees, Minister. Everyone has the right to their judgment, yes. You can't close your eyes on facts. But it doesn't have anything to do with it. However, if you... You see, we treat our role in the ministry in this way. If we write recipes, we try to write recipes comprehensively. The state here urges you to write consistent, comprehensive rules. We apply these five special laws. And before it reaches the stage where the expropriation order goes, the execution order for leaving the premises, that's the whole legislative road or the whole decision-making road - everyone knows that. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You know that, too, and that is the answer to your question. The basic question is, then, why do you put it in the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u298	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, in the second reading, amendments were tabled to the proposed amendment, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011 (prints Nos 822 and 837). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee. The Member will connect with us remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report by the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up at Istanbul on 11 May 2011, print No 822. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent the above draft law to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for first reading on 9 December 2020. The Commissions: Foreign Affairs and Justice and Human Rights after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 16 December 2020 bring: The High Sejm is responsible for adopting draft law from print No. 822 without amendments. Commissions, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, Mrs Gill-Friday, present the following minority request: in Article. Point 1 (2) shall be replaced by the following: withdrawal of the objections raised pursuant to Article. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 2 The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011, to its Article. 55 and Article 55 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 58 and delete paragraph 3. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u300	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law amending the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. High Izbo! This project was examined at a joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There has been a discussion, a justification for the changes proposed here presented by the relevant ministers. It is important to stress that the committees have welcomed these proposed changes, reservations or the withdrawal of one objection. I would like to stress, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice, that we fully support the proposed amendments to two reservations and the withdrawal of one objection. In our view, these adjustments point to progress in preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, and the positive effect of these corrections or these changes will be to raise awareness of protection measures and actions taken to eliminate violence against women and violence in the family. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u302	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u303	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Once, in the streets of Polish cities, the famous domestic violence billboards with such a slogan were hung: because the soup was too salty. Finally, take seriously the problem of domestic violence in Poland, so that someone in a few years will not put up similar posters with the faces of just beaten women and children, with a similar slogan: Because in Poland PiS ruled. Anyone who challenges the anti-violence convention today is on the side of those who beat and murder. He's on the side of domestic violence. High Izbo! The current power is now reaching the heights of the Himalayas of hypocrisy. On the one hand, the government modifies the reservations that Poland submitted to the anti-violence convention a few years ago, but on the other hand it takes very concrete steps to denounce the whole convention. First the Minister of Justice makes a specific request, then the Prime Minister refers the convention to the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal. You pretend you're changing the details, and you want to throw the whole anti-violence convention in the trash. And all this happens in a situation where in Poland almost half a thousand women lose their lives every year from the hands of domestic abusers. That's what happens when almost 700,000. Polish women experience various forms of domestic violence each year. High Izbo, but what can we expect from the current power? This fight against the anti-violence convention conducted by the current authority should not be surprising. We have seen for several weeks how Polish women are treated. The current power hates women. It is in the country of PiS that women are forced to give birth to terminally ill children. It is in PiS that women are attacked during peaceful protests by masked perpetrators with telescopic sticks. It is in the PIS that women are attacked for no reason by gas. It is in the State of PiS that a 19-year-old woman of service breaks her arm, and politicians of present power see nothing wrong with it, nothing wrong with it. High Izbo! Today I appeal to the politicians of the camp of power: end the persecution of women, stop this wave of brutal violence experienced by peacefully protesting women on the streets of Polish cities, and finally stop those politicians of the right hand, with Ziobra at the head, who openly demand and strive to denounce the anti-violence convention. I appeal to this government today: stop questioning Poland's place among Western civilizations, undermine Western European standards of protection of citizens' rights. Withdraw the conclusion from the so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal on the Convention and stop the destruction of women's rights in Poland. You have already destroyed the place and respect for our country in the European Union. Do not ruin it completely in the Council of Europe, while still undermining [[♪ The bell ♪]] Anti-violence convention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u304	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u305	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Even the baby knows about it: you're gonna piss mom off, it's gonna be bad. Lower the VAT on the hangers. The protests are taking place because Sasin doesn't organize them. Mephedron has a better composition than the government. No, these aren't political slogans or ads, they're quotes from banners. Yes, also states of voters manifesting on the streets of Polish cities, what they think about the governments of the right and hell women who, on political order from Nowogrodzka, gave us an unconstitutional tribunal. Not only to feminists, not only to us leftovers, but to all of us citizens, including those who voted for the Law and Justice. The end of the calendar year is approaching. This is a good time to sum up, one year after the parliamentary elections, and the first year of the new term. Well, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy decided to change the definition of violence, but not to complement it with other forms - such as the economic one, which would be in line with the Convention - but by deleting it from the definition of "one time." The failed project of violence+, like Kremlinsky, assumed the first beating in the family for not yet violence. The Minister of the Family, when asked about the termination of the Convention, stated that Poland cannot afford to impose any ideological content incompatible with the Constitution. Well, Minister, actually equality between men and women directly from this constitution, it's our constitution. The Deputy Minister of Justice had previously demanded that gender gibberish be denounced, today at the committee meeting he informed about the unchanged position of Solidarna Polska, who would like to denounce the convention, only that it would prevent it from doing so. But she's a plenipotentiary. The equal treatment present at today's committee meeting had no knowledge of this, and when asked about the responses and actions taken in connection with the use of violence against protesters, she felt that this was not her concern. And so we pass the year 2020 in which the ruling right, in the name of a misunderstood tradition, because of fear of the gender devil, runs a struggle against women's rights. The power is violent, first this institutional one, restricting us, women, laws, and in response to a wave of legitimate opposition in the name of the law, it becomes a torturer. At the request of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Your own safety goes to gas, police batons, and the protesters break not only the laws, but also the bones. There will be consequences, the punishment of the guilty, we will hear: 'I'm sorry' or how from a classic violent man will we hear that it's our fault, women's fault, we asked for it ourselves? Is he hitting an officer? Maybe it's not violence. Is it like a husband who can't rape his wife because there is no rape in marriage? So power can't break the law? This is the case with respect to law and justice in the State of Law and Justice of the end of 2020. The state on the right side of the chamber, for everything, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What you've done this year, you're going to pay a political price in the future. Just as the PiS wanted to end with women's rights, so will the rule of law and justice, because a step towards women's rights was one step too far. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u306	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u307	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. The government project concerns the amendment, withdrawal and modification of Poland's reservations to the Istanbul Convention. The amended bill is necessary, because it results from the change of Polish law. The 2011 Council of Europe Convention is intended to protect women from all forms of violence and discrimination. We know how much controversy and ideological discussion we're having. As the Coalition of Poland, we appeal and believe that no extremes should take place here. Violence against women is not ideological, there is no political color. Regardless of nationality, religion, material and social status, women in our country should feel safe, and especially today, in a pandemic age, when the economic crisis and stress increase aggression. It is often directed towards the weaker, women and children. To me, as a Member, there are women with various problems, often also those who experience domestic violence or violence in the working environment. I have an appeal and a question to the government: Is it properly monitoring and preventing violence, is it using the tools it has, or is it not necessary to strengthen state control in this regard? How does the helpline work to help women affected by violence? How does the Blue Card work? How are the funds shared from the Justice Fund? Is this fund really helping people who are victims and experienced crime, or will the funds from the fund continue to be used by the Minister for other purposes, often not related to the fight against violence? Is there sufficient cooperation between the government and local governments and non-governmental organisations in this regard? Which government has taken action in the field of anti-discrimination education in accordance with Article. 6 conventions? Ladies and gentlemen! Any form of prevention of violence against women will be supported by the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club, which is why I recommend this law to the High House (The Bell). Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u308	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, at the meeting of the Joint Committees: the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Justice, we received a bill, but this is not what we expected. The words of the ministers of the Government of Law and Justice pointed to the termination of the Convention, and that was not the case. Why? Is it only rhetorical for you to move around in your internal fights, but when it comes down to it, there's no way you can do anything? The Istanbul Convention should be denounced and not because it has an anti-violence component in it, because all of us agree that whoever beats children or women deserves to be condemned, deserves to be punished, and that in Polish legislation should be implied as much as possible. The point is that the Istanbul Convention was based primarily on ideological assumptions. Firstly, it assumes that femininity and masculinity are merely social constructs that are not related to objective, biological differences between sexes. Secondly, it assumes that these constructs have been imposed on us throughout history as a result of a dialectical gender struggle, unequal relations of power. Therefore, the Istanbul Convention misunderstands violence: not as a result of the pathology of social life - yes, violence is the pathology of social life, which should be punished - but as a structural phenomenon, where men in advance are placed in the position of those evil ones who always beat. It's not right to deal with these things. This is interference with the family, this is interference in how we understand the family. The aim of the Convention is therefore far-reaching social engineering, reaching the basic social structures. Both the text of the Convention itself and the activities of the body appointed to monitor it prove this. It is not possible to apply the Istanbul Convention without ignoring ideological assumptions. Therefore, we as the Confederation have today prepared a draft resolution in which the Polish Parliament calls on the Council of Ministers to initiate a formal procedure for the termination of the Istanbul Convention, because this is the only way to prevent this ideological, leftist-liberal projection of the introduction into Polish legislation of just a shift... Mask. ...relocation of our legislation and recognition of all this... That mask on your nose should be on your nose. ...the whole left-wing gibberish you want to introduce. The mask isn't on the chin, it's on the nose. Can you really not separate your left-liberal gibberish from the anti-violence actions that everyone supports? You support the oppressors. You really can't do this... You want to hit women... ...and that's why you're not really defending women, just trying instead... Mask, mask up. ...put in your left-liberal gibberish. Thank you. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u310	Thank you very much. Now I ask you to speak... Please... Mr President, please take your place and do not disturb me. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday is speaking now. You're welcome. Well, well, well. This gentleman is aggressive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u311	Dear Marshal, [[Game in the O.R.]] What's his name? Member, wait a minute. Excuse me, can I... You said we wanted to hit women. That was a statement. No, that was a question. It was rude and vulgar. Rudeness and profanity. You hear what you want to hear. Is there any chance that you could take the floor? Thank you. Calm your emotions. Calm down... Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday now has a voice. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With women's affairs in Poland, it's like Prime Minister Sasin's election: there are rules, and nobody's really after anyone. Whether Blue Cards or Election Cards - they are somewhere in Poland, but no one has seen them. Reservations to the Conventions notified by Poland in 2015 expire on 1 February. We can't raise any new objections, but we can juggle the existing ones. And that's how the PiS government juggles women's rights right now. However, this project is really about maintaining one of the fundamental reservations. It is a partial exclusion of the application of Article. 55 conventions in relation to Poland. I'll explain it in simple words. The government is blinking away from the public prosecution of the so-called. violations of bodily integrity, e.g. beating, pulling, pushing, punching, slapping, pulling hair, knee-to-floor, acts of daily violence that in Poland must endure, report the victim living under the same roof with the oppressor. And often thereafter, this application withdraws under threat. However, it is the violation of immunity that is one of the most common qualifications for acts against women who are victims of violence. Thus, the government admits that for five years it has done nothing to ensure that this country, not the victim, has been chasing domestic oppressors, sadists. And that's what the convention requires of us. Violation of immunity and prosecution under Article. 217 The Penal Code of Private Indictment is called a minor crime in Poland. In itself, this is a scandal. Today, I made an amendment to the justice committee that ends this hell, and from Minister Romanowski I learned that chasing domestic violence from the office was too much work for the Polish police. You heard me right. Welcome to the country where the public prosecution is chasing an insult of religious feelings, but not of women's boxers, in a country where 600 police officers guard the home of one president, and they are lacking in saving the women who are being tortured, where the Minister of Justice openly admits that the scale of domestic violence exceeds the capabilities of the services and the state. The PiS government hasn't secured women's safety for five years, and today it tells us that it's not going to do it for the next few years. It is a disgrace that victims of domestic violence can still rely only on themselves in Poland. That is why I ask the High House to support the request of minorities, through which this country, and not the victims, will be obliged to end the home hell of women. I also thank the Members of the opposition for supporting this amendment in the Committee on Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u312	Thank you very much, Member. On this list, the list of people presenting positions of parliamentary clubs and circles has been exhausted. I am also closing the list of Members of the Committee for Questions. The time allowed for the question is 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are discussing fundamental human rights, something that we can call - until it sounds strange - a civilizational achievement, something that is obvious, and yet we still have to fight for it. On the other hand, we hear various statements from politicians, mainly the Law and Justice, who undermine the sense of the Istanbul Convention, the Anti-violence Convention. Therefore, I expect today from this speaker a clear declaration by a representative of the government that Poland will never withdraw from the anti-violence convention. I'd like to hear it from this Parliamentary speaker from a government representative. That's one thing. Secondly, Poland has a very serious systemic problem with the fight against violence in the family. It is during the rule of law and justice that the number of domestic violence crimes has increased more than threefold, from 27 000. to 85,000. cases in 2018 What are you gonna do about it? I would like to hear one more strong declaration from the representative of the government. I would like a representative of the Government of the Republic of Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] He cut himself off from the shameful words that came out of the mouth of the representative of this government, Mrs. Beata Szydło, who praised Zakopane for not adopting a local domestic violence programme. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u314	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Istanbul Convention is an extremely important legal act giving women victims of domestic violence the possibility of immediate isolation from the perpetrator. Bite women, abused children don't have to wait months, and sometimes years for a court order so the police can separate the perpetrator. The convention gives them this opportunity. However, it is extremely worrying that such an important piece of legislation is being challenged by a policy which should uphold every law supporting victims of violence and be against the perpetrators. The Minister of Justice should be on the side of the victims. Unfortunately, the procedure for the termination of the Convention has been initiated and the case has also been referred to the Constitutional Court. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to defend women, victims of domestic violence, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's for the convention. If you're against the convention, where are you, I'm asking. Aren't we on the perp's side? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u316	Thank you very much. I now ask Małgorzata Tracz to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u317	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the project, for a further period of 5 years, the application of the reservation to Article will be extended. 55th Istanbul Convention. In this reservation Poland considers that the obligation to initiate proceedings ex officio does not apply to minor offences. Such minor crimes are according to the Criminal Code the transgressions of the violation of bodily integrity, which are prosecuted in Poland from a private accusation. Violation of bodily immunity is nothing more than a punch, a slap, a kick, a jerk, a push, a hold or a pull by the hair. This is nothing but a basic catalogue of physical violence in domestic violence. The Istanbul Convention obliges us to prosecute such crimes ex officio, but this does not work in Poland, because Poland has not changed this situation in the last 5 years, hiding itself from this subject. Hence my question to the Minister of Justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there any change planned to bring Polish law into line with the standards of the Istanbul Convention, or is the government still going to wash its hands against domestic violence? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u318	Thank you very much, Member. I now ask Katarzyna Lubnauer to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u319	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Actually, I would like to address the Members of the PIS, but as you can see, they are not interested in why they are such cowards. They have cowardly taken the fundamental right of women to abortion in a situation of severe foetal injury through the Constitutional Tribunal and, at the moment, again by the same Constitutional Tribunal, they wish to denounce the Istanbul Convention, even though the Constitutional Tribunal does not have the power to examine whether this Convention and its translation are compatible. Be brave, make it clear whether you want to declare the Istanbul Convention or not, do not organize a roller coaster for women. Because at the moment we hear Mrs Maląg, who announces that the Istanbul Convention will be pronounced, then you withdraw from it, then Deputy Minister Romanowski says that it would have to be said. We have a request to the Constitutional Court. Be brave. And in fact, every civilized country should put in its records. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He should introduce public prosecution, a different definition of rape, economic violence, that's all that is at the heart of modern civilization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u320	Thank you very much. I now ask Katarzyna Maria Bakerska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u321	Dear Marshal, Fellow Members and Fellow Members! On July 16, Minister Maląg: we are preparing to terminate the Istanbul Convention. Mr Marcin Horala: if an analysis of the various legal aspects proves that the Istanbul Convention can be said, that will happen. And in November, there was also an announcement from the Justice Department that the Istanbul Convention had been denounced. Therefore, I ask: Can the victims of domestic violence sleep peacefully, or will you once and for all say that you will not declare this convention, and will it not be so that before the next election, when you are competing for votes with the Confederation, you will say this convention? Can NGOs, which have been helping victims of domestic violence for years, count on financial support for their activities by the government, e.g. From the Justice Fund? During the pandemic, the number of cases of domestic violence has increased considerably, while it is virtually impossible to carry out the study. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Access to a psychologist is also very difficult. What are you going to do with this aspect? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u322	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Mirosław Suchon to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u323	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I think the basic question that we have to ask ourselves today is that everyone should answer... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me, sir. Can Members move the discussion out of the room? Thank you. Thank you very much, Marshal. So this is the basic question that we have to ask ourselves today and that everyone should answer is two things. Should the government take care of the safety of victims of violence, should it help these victims, ensure their safety, or should it take care of the well-being of the perpetrators of these crimes? It seems that rational, common sense and real throughout the civilized world is to take care of the victims of violence and to take the most critical approach to those who use violence. We had such a meeting of the Public Finance Committee, during which a government representative insisted that the perpetrators (the Bell) could not be evicted from the apartment where the victims were also present. And it was the representative of the Minister of Justice who defended this state of affairs. We all have doubts as to whether the government really wants to take care of the victims of crime or whether it is about the well-being of the perpetrators. First question, Marshal: Will the government really start caring about the victims of crime? And the second question is, will he leave the convention alone? She guarantees that the state is committed to caring for the victims of crime, not to the well-being of the perpetrators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u324	Thank you. I ask Mr Michael Szczerba to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u325	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are talking about a convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, but it is also symbolic that today, from this speaker, Deputy Minister Maciej Wąsik said about breaking the hand of 19-year-old Alexandra that at this stage there is no reason to believe that police officers have unlawfully used coercive measures. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an outrageous situation. Instead of saying the words that should come from this speaker from the minister supervising the police, in whom he apologizes to the victim, he apologizes for the abuse of police officers, that is what he says. This is symbolic. The second point is that if we are to really fight violence against women, domestic violence, then we also need resources. Over the years, NGOs such as the Centre for Women's Rights have received funding from the Justice Fund. The entire Justice Fund has now been redirected to the self-promotion of Polish Solidarity politicians. Millions come out of this fund (the bell), but not the victims, not the needy. Remember when Andrzej Duda pardoned the paedophile's father. Then there was the question of how this family, how this mother, how this daughter helped the Polish state. Why did the funds from the Justice Fund go to Rydzyk, go to politicians, to the Solidarity Foundation of Poland, and not to the particular family that needed specific help at the time? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u326	Mr Aleksander Mishalski will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u327	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we talk about violence against women in Poland, it is often said on the right hand side that this problem does not actually exist in Poland, because the experience of physical violence affects only 19% women, meanwhile in Denmark or Sweden it is almost 50%. Do you know what makes this difference? It's based on how you count and how you defend women. In Sweden, any case of physical violence against women is prosecuted by law, which automatically increases the detection of crimes. This is what the Convention calls for. Why are you blocking this? Mr Mularczyk! Try to imagine you're a woman, living in a small town, not working, running a house, and financially dependent on your partner. Do you think a woman like you would have volunteered for the police then? I don't think so. I think this toxic relationship is gonna ruin children's psyche, and this spiral's gonna wind up forever. I understand you haven't been very on your way with women lately. You deprive them of their rights, you send policemen with telescopic batons to them, who (the bell) break their hands. Tell me why you don't want to do this little gesture to women. Over 52% The inhabitants of Poland are women, some of them even vote and some of them experience physical violence. Think of them and include this point in the convention. By the way, do you do anything with municipalities that do not have anti-violence conventions so far, like in Zakopane? May I have your answer in writing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u328	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u329	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Women in Poland die in the privacy of their homes. Five hundred women die a year as a result of women's murder or domestic violence. How much exactly, we don't know, because the government doesn't run data, statistics on this case. We need a very strong change in the functioning of the law on the prevention of domestic violence, the amendment of this law, the change in the functioning of the Blue Card. Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, when will this happen? We need to include the definition of economic violence in Polish law. When is this gonna happen? We need to change the definition of rape in Polish law. When is this gonna happen? We need a new national programme against domestic violence - a multi-annual one. You are planning this program only for the next year. Such a programme will not be successfully implemented within a year. Why just for a year? We are still waiting for all municipalities in Poland to have municipal anti- domestic violence programmes. When is this gonna happen? It is your duty to supervise, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want the municipalities to have programs like this. We're still waiting to hear when the violence monitoring team is set up. He was supposed to be here by the end of October. There's still no such band. When will this happen, ladies and gentlemen? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u330	The question will be asked by Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u331	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Madam Minister, who's been connecting with us from the government limousine! The facts are that on July 25, Minister Ziobro made an official request to terminate the anti-violence convention - a convention which contains a number of mechanisms that allow women to be protected more effectively than the Polish law, among others. expand the definition of domestic violence or classify economic violence. What does the government do? The security of women is at stake at such a critical moment as the pandemic, when most of us are in isolation. Only one of the organizations, the Women's Rights Centre, which you have taken away funds for functioning, recorded nearly 50% more telephone calls for an intervention number and about 20% more e-mail applications. Women locked up with house-breakers need real help, real legal tools, and this is what this convention provides for them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Perfidiously you are playing with the safety, health and life of millions of women in Poland. You sell fairy tales about the ideological dimension of this convention. Today we are discussing executive issues. So it allows us to hope that Mr. Ziobra's inhuman ideas ended up in a dumpster. Can you finally give us a guarantee that you will not raise your hands to the anti-violence convention and Polish women? Millions of women are waiting for this answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u332	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! May 13th this year Deputy Minister of Justice Marcin Romanowski wrote about the anti-violence convention, and I quote: we want to say this gender gibberish. In response to my interpellation, which I immediately addressed, the Minister maintained that Solidarna Polska was in favour of the termination of the Convention. On July 16th, the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Maląg stated that Poland is preparing to denounce the anti-violence convention. Then I sent the interpellation again, demanding an explanation. The Minister wrote, quote: the Council of Ministers did not decide to denounce the Istanbul Convention by Poland, leaving, of course, a way to make such a decision in the future and without clearly defining the position of the Polish government. In this connection, I ask the Minister: Are there any actions to lead to the termination of the anti-violence convention by Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please leave and say it boldly here, from this speaker, and end this schizophrenia of the Polish government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u334	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u335	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I can't believe that on the day that over 600 people died because of the epidemic, the government finds time to engage again with women. The Istanbul Convention doesn't suit you from the beginning. It was the representatives of your government who spoke of the convention of shameful things. You're trying to convince everyone that a dispute over a convention is a worldview dispute. But that's not true. Right. The Convention deals with the prevention and fight against violence against women and domestic violence. Remember that once and for all. Women's rights, anti-violence rights are not ideologies, but fundamental human rights. As a result of domestic violence, around 500 women are killed every year in Poland, about 700,000 women. He's beaten and persecuted. Why, then, does the Polish government not comply with the provisions of the Istanbul Convention? Why are you taking the side of the oppressors? Can you from this speaker declare that [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish government will not withdraw from the Istanbul Convention against the declarations of Minister Ziobra? I expect a clear and concrete answer. Stop being cowards. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u336	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u337	Indeed, on July 17, Minister Maląg declared that the government was preparing to terminate the Istanbul Convention, and that this statement was later condemned several times. And now the question is, does this mean that the government has never prepared to denounce this convention and Mrs Maląg has lied - and if she has lied, then what political and criminal responsibility has met her because making false statements on behalf of the government in public is probably something extremely irresponsible - or the government has been preparing itself, but has stopped getting ready, and then why did it again do the armor and give up what he promised? This convention is not real help, contrary to what many have said. It's just a piece of paper. Nobody's left. He did not hold back from violence on account of the Istanbul Convention. It's not like Mrs. Lubnauer seems that women check every morning whether the convention has already been spoken or not and, as it has been said, they will be afraid to leave the house. And with joy I accepted the information about [[♪ The bell ♪]] the idea of checking economic violence and our law, whether it will be, for example, the category of economic beating and economic rape. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u338	The question will now be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition. I'm gonna want an ad vocem at the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u339	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Don't tell anyone what's going on in the house - and bad is the bird that defiles its nest. I think that's the two worst proverbs in Polish. Sadly, it is often in families that the most violence happens, and these proverbs encourage them to hide this evil and to suffer in silence. Family violence is often undocumented. There are no cameras or journalists there, but there is the actual suffering of the victims. Therefore, I am pleased that Poland - at least so far - has not spoken to the Istanbul Convention, whose signature also guarantees that culture or religion is not an excuse for violence in the family. Unfortunately, this government, regardless of this passage, added new words: what happens in the rectory, don't tell or say or say: you are a paedophile in a casket, justice will not get you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It doesn't rhyme. Or is it about time for a completely new proverb: mutual respect and conversation is a Polish domestic tradition? Thank you. [[Applause]] For Christmas in the family, you'll miss the poverty.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u340	Thank you. I ask Mr Arthur Łącki, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And I'm glad the PiS is digging through the Istanbul Convention. Keep up the good work. In October, your president had Mrs. Przyłębska smash the compromise, which may not have been good, but was functioning. And you dragged women into the streets. Now, digging into this, dragging a woman out on the streets again, and I hope it's women who clean up after you in politics and clean you up. What do you even have against women? What's going on? Were you, as children, I don't know, beaten by mothers? Or locked you in a dark room with scary dolls, so rags, and yet you can't shake it? ...watching each other. You know that from the autopsy. People, you really should leave because you are ruining the Polish state and ruining Polish law. I'm not gonna ask you whether you want to leave the Istanbul Convention or not, you guys get out of politics, and we're gonna come after you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We'll sweep up and clean up. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u342	I ask Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the Left, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's stick to the facts. According to official data, police data 75% The victims of violence in the family are women. According to the same data, 90% The perpetrators of violence are men. Violence has sex. Sex matters when we talk about violence in the family. It is not surprising, then, that every announcement about the possible declaration of the Istanbul Convention, every announcement of objections to the anti-violence convention causes terror and terror among women, namely women. The same women you've been attacking incessantly for two months. When Minister Maląg announced the termination of the Convention and the lodging of reservations, I, together with a group of Members and Members of the Left, submitted an interpellation on this matter. Minister Maląg hasn't responded for three months. When she finally replied, of course, she used very general terms, but one thing I would like to quote in particular: If the provisions of the Convention are found to be incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal will have a derogation effect. Here it refers to the request of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who asked for a check (The Bell) on the compatibility of the anti-violence convention with the Polish constitution. You can't help but notice the parallels with what happened on October 22. Do you want to use the back door again, wash your hands, introduce further restrictions on women's rights? I demand a clear declaration as to the government's attitude towards the violence convention. Please answer me, and it's a written answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u344	I ask Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, parliamentary club of the Left, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! When we, women and men, fought a few years ago to ratify the convention, the Platform did not take this ratification very long, I gave President Komorowski a T-shirt with a big inscription: yes to the convention. The president looked at it and said to me, "But why do you give it to me?" I don't hit my wife. The indifference and misunderstanding of the subject - that was then. Today is even worse, because today we are ruled by an extreme right. Taliban. Someone from the Confederation just said that violence comes from pathology. So I have a question: Is blaming women for being raped because they had a short skirt because they drank alcohol because they didn't defend themselves enough or that they were too quietly screaming because such a sentence recently (the bell) fell, so justified, is pathology? Yeah, it's pathology. Because the ruling coalition is violent and pathological. I have a question for Minister Czarnek: How will he fight violence against women in new textbooks that he is already preparing with a new programming basis? By writing an old national Polish proverb: if you don't fight women, does her liver rot? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u346	I now ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u347	Mr. Marshal! Madame Minister Absent! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Lockdown time is particularly difficult for victims of domestic violence. We're locked in our homes and all the frustrations and problems behind these closed doors are just getting bigger. The increase in domestic violence interventions is estimated to be up to 90%. Victims of violence are often left behind these closed doors alone. So on this occasion I wanted to ask: What did the government do, what specific solutions have been put in place for this difficult time of epidemic, when experts, supporters, foundations helping victims of violence have been alarming that the problem is growing? I expect the Prime Minister and the Government of Law and Justice to make a clear declaration that the government will not declare an anti-violence convention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish women are waiting for this declaration. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u348	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The number of domestic violence is increasing, and in recent times - especially this year - this is avalanche growth. The government doesn't see the problem and even ignores it. The church hierarchs are ironic about this. Meanwhile, during the pandemic period, when families are locked in their homes with the oppressors, horrible scenes occur. Women and children suffer from torture and do not receive help. I wanted to ask: What financial resources did the government secure in the state budget for the growing need to help victims of violence? How much money from the Justice Fund, which should serve these purposes, the financing of violence prevention, will be spent on [[♪ The bell ♪]] helping victims? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u350	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Bożena Żalewska, the Coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u351	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ideologizing violence makes no sense. Any violence against any person is simply banditism. However, it is the government that has tools that can counter violence. Many of the questions I would like to ask now have been included in my earlier speech, but I have a question for the Minister: To what extent does the government cooperates with local governments and NGOs enough to combat violence? What did the government do at this difficult time, a time of pandemic, when stress increases violence to take more care of Polish families, about the weaker ones?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u352	Thank you very much. Is Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz in the room? Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will recall the Justice Fund mentioned several times, because in terms of combating family violence, but also saving victims of this violence, both organisational, legal and financial issues are important. Meanwhile, the Justice Fund, which is designed to help victims of crime and their loved ones, spends money, e.g. for projects of the Clean Heart Foundation, which are to support as many women and men as possible to achieve happiness in love, and take action to make every marriage sacramental, and as many girls and boys as possible start sexual life after marriage. It was said here today that violence comes from pathology. Does the Ministry of Justice therefore consider sacramental marriages and not having sex before marriage to be a pathology that should be supported financially? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this the kind of aid that the victims are looking for? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u354	Thank you very much. I would now ask Mrs Catherine Ueberhan, Left, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u355	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! According to the Ombudsman's report, many local government units in Poland did not carry out a local diagnosis of the phenomenon of violence in the family. What about districts, municipalities that have not adopted a programme against violence against women, even though they have a statutory obligation? Does the state administration exercise the statutory supervision of municipalities in this regard? According to what criteria are grants granted to organisations supporting victims of domestic violence? How public funds are distributed, including those from the so-called. The Justice Fund? Is the main criterion: our government, our NGOs? What about the definition of violence? Will Polish law begin to recognize other forms of violence than physical ones? What about the definition of rape? When will it finally be based on the concept of disagreement? What about the National programme against violence in the family? The current programme is about to end and the continuation of the programme for the coming years has not yet been presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u356	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u357	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm temporarily overlooking who has an opinion on the Istanbul Convention. Talking to you about this doesn't make any sense, because your words have no meaning. Four years ago, you announced you were going to tell the convention. In December 2016, Minister of Labour Elżbieta Rafalska said: I am in favour of Poland's declaration of the Istanbul Convention. The Ministry of Justice has confirmed that it is starting work on this issue. Every once in a while, you announced your resignation. The family minister Marlena Maląg also announced a few months ago that she was starting work on this issue. The second term of office is therefore underway. Now you're not making this convention again, you're making some minor adjustments. So I have a hopeful question: Can we count on the same long-standing delay in fulfilling your tax increases announcements? This would benefit many Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u358	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer will now speak as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u359	Mr Sosnierz said that it is not so that women live on the issue of the Istanbul Convention. Let's say numbers. These are official police records, which means these are data on these women, those family members who report violence. 2019: 88 thousand victims of violence, including more than 65 thousand. Women, 10 600 men, over 12,000. children. These are the cases that are reported, and very often women - victims of violence, which are actually often financially dependent on men, for whom there is also pressure of family or priest from the nearest parish, are afraid to report. This country should be prosecuting violence from the state because women are often afraid that the oppressor will come home and get hit again. That's why opinions like you and your colleague are irresponsible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Istanbul Convention is one of the documents that helps the government to make the right decisions. And the fact that this government is so irresponsible that it wants to use the Constitutional Tribunal, as in the case of the abortion law, makes a difference here, only yours and their irresponsibleness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u360	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. I wanted a corrigendum. I now ask Anna Schmidt, who is the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, to speak. Mr. Marshal... There's no ad vocem. And I would very kindly ask you to take your seat. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, my name has been spoken. The honourable Member referred to your statement as a correction. If you were to use the name of the Member in a moment, she would like to refer again, so that we can sit until morning. It's so... I ask the Minister to speak, and I kindly ask the Member to step down and take his seat where the Members should sit. I wish I had the same right to rectify as Mrs. Lubnauer. And I'm telling you once again, I'm asking you very kindly to step out of the podium, because once you've given a show of feral customs, falling into opposition benches and waving your hands at women. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Sit down! Thank you very much. Now, that's... And now I ask the Minister to speak. No, no, no. That's already rude, and all the more so I'm asking for a correction. Minister, you're welcome. You're welcome to the stand, Minister. Okay, I'll meet you at the ethics committee. There you go. ...with false accusations. What does it mean to wave your hands at women? What's all this insolent talk? What kind of demagogue is this? It's not insolent talking, it's just a negative assessment of your attitude towards women. Thank you very much. What does that have to do with gender? This lady's just lying about wanting to beat up women. You're welcome, Minister. Lying has no gender. Same thing Bosak took.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u361	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In the part that concerns the family department and my speech at the morning meeting... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And that's the savagery of customs. Mr President, please sit in your seat and do not provoke Members of the opposition. They're the ones who're provoking me. They're the ones messing with me here. There's a pandemic. There you go, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Thank you very much, Marshal. I will try to answer most of the questions that have been raised here today, also referring to my speech at the joint committee meeting this morning. Don't spread the virus. Take off that duck's beak. There are also strict questions addressed to the applicant, the Ministry of Justice. Minister Romanowski is with us, so I'm guessing he'll answer them. First of all, I would like to refer to what I said this morning and what has already rained many times. I will repeat this once again: neither the Ministry of Family and Social Policy nor the government, as I know it, I hope that it is thorough, it is not conducting any action or proceeding which is aimed at the termination of the Convention. How perfectly... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, let me finish. And the TK application? The request to the Constitutional Tribunal, which has been referred to several times here, and which, as we know, was made by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, is due to the fact, as I also said at the committee's meeting this morning, that every act of law, whether national or international, if it raises any doubts, should be examined for compliance with the basic law, which is the highest law... But this is the government's action to... I would like to ask you not to discuss your point with the Minister speaking. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: ... The Republic of Poland, Member of the Commission. The Prime Minister therefore considered that such a request should be addressed there. We are waiting for the procedure to be launched at the Constitutional Court and this proposal will be examined. That is all I have to say, once again, honourable Members, in terms of the scope of the work on the Istanbul Convention. As far as Mr Snapshot's question on the detection of crimes is concerned, I am convinced that Mr Romanowski will want to speak here. On the other hand, I can only answer from the point of view of the data held by the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. We are talking not about the increase in crime, but rather about the increase in detection of these crimes. The data that were presented in the report on the implementation of the law on violence - a week ago there was a debate on this issue in the Senate - shows that in fact the detection of these crimes has increased, i.e. the number of notifications under the Blue Card. What does that prove? The greater number of victims of violence report this, and we therefore treat it in terms of increasing confidence in the authorities - uniformed services, state policies - which conduct a broad anti-violence policy. As regards the question of one of the Members - here I will refer to the speech of the Member, the representative of the Left Club - that, as I recall, the Member participated in the meeting of the joint committees this morning. If not, then I encourage the representatives of the Left to reconstruct this meeting. It amazes me, frankly speaking, and astonishes me that the representative of the government for equal treatment, which is my humble person, I - supposedly, because here such a statement was made by the Member - does not know what is happening in the matters of the Istanbul Convention. As far as I recall, and my memory does not fail me yet, it was me, together with Minister Wawrzyk and Minister Romanowski, who answered the questions of the parliamentarians who took part in the committee meeting, who answered these questions and motivated me, who explained what is the validity of the request and the reservations which Poland makes in the formula in which they were submitted, so, as you know, two are slightly changed, one is maintained and one is withdrawn. So I encourage you to listen with understanding of the committee's meeting. You will know what is the government's position, what is the legitimacy of submitting these reservations, and what is the position on this matter, or rather knowledge, because this is what the Member's statement referred to, the government's representative for equal treatment. With regard to government policy, because such a question has also been raised concerning the procedure of Blue Cards - here one of the Members referred to (the bell) of the opinion of GREVIO - I would like to remind you that a month or a half a month ago we hosted the GREVIO expert committee, which was very positive... Mr. Marshal, can I finish my speech? Please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Thank you very much. ...the Blue Card procedure, which is given by the representatives of GREVIO, and not only by the European Union as a model example of solutions that have already been implemented, as you know, many years ago. As regards the question - I will be a little bit of the responsibility of Minister Romanowski here, but I would like to refer to this - regarding what the government is doing to secure particularly during the COVID period of the victims of violence, I would remind you that we have recently transposed in the Polish Parliament the law of the Minister of Justice, which instantly and effectively does not involve the judicial procedures referred to in the Istanbul Convention, only the procedure of the rapid response of the police services, in this case the police services, introduced provisions on immediate isolation and exclusion from the household, from the apartment where the victim is present, the perpetrator of this violence. This is therefore a clear example, ladies and gentlemen, of how the government also reacts in the context of the epidemic situation that we have been dealing with for several months on the revision of the violence legislation. About the art. 55, because that's what you were referring to here, and I'm going to ask you a rhetorical question. I already talked about this at the committee meeting, but I will also say that Poland is not the only country... I have mentioned several countries: Switzerland, Northern Macedonia, Finland, Romania, Slovenia. These are the countries which, when ratifying the Convention, have raised objections to the Article. 55 resulting from nothing but the fact that this is the form of law and art. 217 on bodily immunity. I'd like to ask you a rhetorical question, because here it was raised by... Minister, if you don't mind... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Last sentence. ...it's from asking questions in this Chamber that Members are just asking you... [[Applause]] Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Good. ...so how do you feel about asking a rhetorical question... Bravo! ...you will allow me now to pass on the vote waiting for my speech to Minister Romanowski. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Can I finish one sentence, Marshal? Please, one sentence, sir. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Anna Schmidt: Okay, well, thank you for reminding me. I will only say at the end of my speech that I would like to draw the attention of your Members, representatives of the Civic Coalition, that at the time when the Istanbul Convention was ratified, and thus on 24 April 2015, your team was in charge, the government of the Civic Platform and PSL, your team raised reservations, including to Article. 55, resulting from the wording of Article. 217, and the minister then was Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, followed by Mr Boris Budka. Thus, the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, following the current shape of the Article. 217, it's the only thing holding up that reservation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u362	Thank you. I now ask you to speak and answer the questions asked earlier by Mr Marcin Romanowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, who will give this answer in remote mode. [[The statement of the Undersecretary of State is displayed on the screens]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u363	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Continuing the Minister's statement and referring precisely to the article. 217, I would also like to add that it is not true that this provision is used for the qualification of domestic violence phenomena. This is a very general provision, which concerns the whole spectrum of light crimes against the honor and immunity of the flesh, not against life and health, as indicated in chapter 27 rather than chapter 19. It's an art. 157, which is a slight or moderate injury to health, or, of course, an article. 207, i.e. abuse, concerns those types that are used to qualify for domestic violence. All these indicated acts are prohibited by law. Maybe I'll just add that art. 217 stays with them in a minor coincidence, as is apparent from the case law of the Supreme Court, and as regards the article itself. 217, this crime may also be prosecuted from the public office if the prosecutor considers it to be of social interest. It is therefore not true that the rights of persons harmed in any way are being violated here by this very negative phenomenon of domestic violence. As far as statistics are concerned, because there were questions here, but there were also many false, as it seems, information, we do not see - I am talking about the perspective of recent years - any significant increase in this type of crime, as police statistics indicate. As for the number of homicides, I wanted to point out that, for example. Last year there were 524 murders all over Poland. So I don't know where the number came from, that about so many women. is allegedly killed in domestic violence. Moreover, the data of the Fundamental Rights Agency itself, which uses a methodology which also detects a grey zone, which is natural in the case of domestic violence, indicate that the level of crime in Poland, the crime we are talking about, is less than two. - and almost three times more than in some Western European countries, where the standards of the Istanbul Convention are so fiercely implemented. As far as the Justice Fund is concerned, I will note that now, thanks to the multiannual programme, we are spending more than PLN 70 million per year only on direct assistance to victims of crime, psychological, legal and, to some extent, material aid. This is 40 times more than in 2012 during the Civic Platform. That is also the answer to Mr Honourable's question concerning the case of the paedophile. I wanted to point out that this crime took place at the time, so please address this question to someone else. As regards the Istanbul Convention and the issues related to its pronouncement, the Minister gave her consent, an opinion on behalf of the Council of Ministers as a whole. I just have to add that as a coalition government, as a coalitionist, as Solidarna Polska, we have a separate opinion, of course without affecting the formal initiation of proceedings. In our view, the normative convention brings nothing to the standard of protection, because it was either equal or higher at the time of ratification in terms of national solutions, and in our view, which we have repeatedly expressed, maybe I will not repeat it in detail, in the ideological layer it is dangerous, for example. wrongly identifies the causes of violence, just pointing to tradition, sexual roles, and not in pathologies in the form of alcohol, drugs and objectification of the role of a woman, which also has a counterproductive significance. The last thing I'm going to say is that the Minister mentioned this, too, is about the anti-violence law and the so-called law. an immediate police order. This is a good comparison, because according to conventional standards, the victim had to remain with the perpetrator of violence for an average of 142 days, because that was the time for the courts to issue judgments. He couldn't have been any different with the procedure we took. We've changed that, ladies and gentlemen, now it's zero. And that's the answer to that question. There's a victim at the center, a victim, not the perpetrator, [[♪ The bell ♪]] as was the case with regard to the regulations that were adopted under left-wing, liberal governments, including the reduction of criminal penalties, the shortening of the limitation period. Finally, as far as the Istanbul Convention is concerned, many countries have not ratified the Convention for the reasons we are talking about. We are here in good company because these are Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Lithuania and Latvia. Thus, in our view, the standard of protection that we have in the field of national law - the best example of this is the law introducing an immediate police order - is precisely a real tool to combat this phenomenon that we are actually fighting. The first weeks of action of the law on immediate police orders show that victims of violence can actually feel safe because they do not have to stay under the same roof with the perpetrator for 140 days or do not have to run away from home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u364	Thank you very much. Before I ask Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, you will be asked to answer important questions by Minister Anna Schmidt, who has asked for another minute to be completed. I ask you, Minister, for this answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u365	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I also wanted to address one of the questions raised in the Hall about the national anti-violence programme. Indeed, the programme was adopted not in the long term, but for a year. This is due to the fact, as I already mentioned at the meeting of the Joint Committee this morning, that the Ministry of the Family is preparing changes to the Anti-violence Act. We are aware that the concept that has functioned in the law for many years is a narrow term. Polish law so far constitutes a concept of violence in the family, we are aware and aware that violence covers all kinds of violence in the so-called. a household, including in informal relationships, partnerships, and thus not only in the traditional view of the family as a marriage. Hence, the decision to adopt a national programme per year, in order to make a number of changes - not the only but one of the most important proposed changes in the law - and to adapt the programme in relation to the long-term perspective (the Bell) to the new rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u366	Thank you very much. Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, who is present in the Chamber, resigned from his speech, claiming that the questions concerning his segment had not been answered. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which criminal law is applicable belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan (prints Nos 831 and 838). I would very much like to ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report of the two Joint Committee on Justice and Human Rights and of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which concerns the draft law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which criminal law is applicable belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan. It should be stressed that the draft law prefers the principles of legal cooperation between the Republic of Poland and Taiwan, which was examined today, is the result of the earlier activity of the Ministry of Justice, the visit of the former Deputy Minister of Justice in Taiwan and the need to conclude this agreement due to cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and Taiwan. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, after hearing the votes in the discussion, gave a positive opinion on the initiative submitted and proposes that it be adopted by the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u368	Thank you very much for the report. We now proceed to the presentation of club and circle positions. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Daniel Milewski will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u369	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! By presenting the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the government draft law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which criminal law is applicable belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan, I would like to stress that this government project aims to speed up and simplify criminal proceedings in such cases and allows the transfer to Poland of a Polish citizen serving a long-term prison sentence in Taiwan. The Law and Justice Club is positive about the government project. Thanks to this law, which sets out the rules for the functioning of the agreement, it will be easier to communicate in criminal matters between the central authorities of Poland and Taiwan concerned. Thank you kindly, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u370	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Tomasz to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding with a draft law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which the criminal law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies. It was the representatives of the Taiwanese party who asked the Polish government to discuss the signing of this agreement, noting that Poland is being used especially as a place of online fraud, and delays in executing requests for legal assistance currently handled on a reciprocal basis make it difficult to prosecute criminals. This is the fight against crime in cyberspace. The Polish party points out that the scope of the agreement is relatively broad and covers not only cybercrime, as it includes mutual legal assistance, extradition, transfer of convicted persons, the provision of information on the law and the practice of its application, and the provision of information on the prosecution and prevention of criminal offences. The agreement also deals with criminal matters belonging to the jurisdiction of the courts and the prosecutor's office. The concept of investigation used in the Polish text should be interpreted autonomously as any procedure to determine whether or not an offence has been committed, whether it constitutes a criminal offence, who is its perpetrator, what responsibility it should bear. As we can see, this agreement, which is very widely described in the Act, has more than 24 pages, covers important issues concerning legal relations in the context of criminal prosecution. Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support this project. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we are strengthening political relations, legal relations with the Republic of China, because that is what Taiwan is called in official documents, which is not recognised by the People's Republic of China. As you know, China is still demanding Taiwan's return to mainland China, protesting against international relations... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] You turned me off? [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] Excuse me. ...preventing any international diplomatic relationship between Taiwan and any other country, so surely the Chinese side is watching closely to strengthen these relations on the next level. But it must be acknowledged that Taiwan has also concluded such a legal agreement with other countries of the European Union, seeing precisely the need to prosecute criminals. So the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club, as I said before (The Bell), will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u372	Thank you very much, sir, and I apologize at the same time. You're welcome, Marshal. This exclusion by chance was not a review of your opinion on this matter. You don't look like marshal Witek or marshal Terletsky, so I knew it was a coincidence. Thank you very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Exactly. Here you are, Mr Andrzej Szejna, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u373	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The proposed law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between Rzeczpospolita Poland and the territory to which criminal law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies is primarily intended to transpose the instrument on cooperation in criminal matters into the Polish legal order. It is therefore a law which allows the application of the agreement concluded between the Polish Bureau in Taipei and the Taipei Representative Office in Poland on legal cooperation in criminal matters, signed on 17 June 2019. Art. 1 The transposition act indicates that cooperation with Taiwan is carried out on the basis of an agreement, i.e. in the manner and in accordance with the rules set out therein, including the moment of its entry into force. Therefore, with regard to the contested law, it should be borne in mind this agreement, which sets out the principles, among others. mutual legal assistance, extradition, the provision of information on the law and the practice of its application, and the provision of information on prosecution and criminal prevention. With regard to the outstanding agreement, the provisions of the applicable national law will apply, in the case of Poland it will, of course, be a Code of Criminal Procedure. The Taiwanese party, which initiated the signing of the agreement, indicated that the territory of Poland is unfortunately a place used for online fraud. A long period of examination of applications for legal aid makes criminal proceedings more difficult, especially in the area of cybercrime, when the rapid response of law enforcement authorities can lead to the arrest of perpetrators, while delay is likely to result in the prevention of justice. The Left has repeatedly raised in this House the demands to increase the effectiveness of the defence of our cyberspace in the military field, as well as the fight against increasingly frequent cases of crime committed on the Internet. The application of the provisions of the agreement would speed up and simplify the conduct of criminal proceedings in such cases initiated by both the Polish and Taiwanese law enforcement authorities. In addition, by virtue of Article. 5 laying down rules for the transfer of sentenced persons would allow the removal of a Polish citizen, as has already been mentioned, currently serving a sentence of imprisonment in Taiwan's penitentiary. The case concerning the right to execute the sentence of imprisonment imposed on him in Poland has been pending since 2018. The current legal situation - the lack of grounds for applying the cooperation agreement - is clearly not conducive to the effectiveness of the implementation of the proposal. High Izbo! On an international level, the adoption of the transposition law will enable the strengthening of Polish-Taiwan contacts. However, it cannot be forgotten that Taiwan provides for the use of the death penalty in its legal order. The Left Parliamentary Club supports the contested bill because of the decisive simplification and acceleration of criminal proceedings in cases between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which criminal law belonging to the jurisdiction (The Bell) of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies. However, we are thinking about ethical issues regarding the execution of the death penalty. We call for increased international contacts to abolish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u374	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party - Union of European Democrats and Conservatives will be presented by Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a rather curiasal document starting with the title, because it is said that it is a draft law on the principles of cooperation between the Polish Republic and Poland - that everyone understands - and the territory to which criminal law is applied, belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan. This is right-handing for left ear, but it undoubtedly reflects Taiwan's legal status in international law - Taiwan is not considered to be a separate state by most members of the United Nations. At the same time, to make it more fun, if you can put it that way, we have a Polish office in Taipei and Taiwan has an office in Warsaw. The head of this office has the status of ambassador. How do we do it without diplomatic relations, I'm not 100% I'm sure. Maybe he's an ambassador. It is a law that provides for a very broad cooperation within the framework of criminal law, including extradition. That's pretty unusual, I'd say. I was surprised to learn that Poland is a crime center in cyberspace that affects Taiwan. I see we are already very international in this respect. I agree with the Member's statement - we need to step up work on our cybersecurity, not only military, but also civilian, because we obviously have a problem with this. I'd say we're a long way from Estonia. It is unbelievable that we have one Pole who is imprisoned in Taiwan for a long time and we have Taiwanese arrested who, if they are prosecuted and convicted, could serve their sentences in a prison in Taipei. This is a very interesting conclusion. These are very interesting instruments. It is also very interesting that Taiwan has signed such a cooperation agreement in the field of criminal law not only with us and with our allies, e.g. The United States or France, but also the People's Republic of China. It's an event. The Chinese do not consider Taiwan to be a separate country, but they sign international agreements with Taiwan. So complex are the steps of diplomacy. In view of the fact that the agreement allows for very close cooperation in criminal matters between two countries, which is not so obvious, the two joint committees (The Bell) recommended voting in favour of this law. PSL - Polish Coalition - Union of European Democrats and Conservatives will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u376	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will present the position of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u377	I don't have any objections. About the bill itself. I don't think there's anything controversial out there that wouldn't be known for any of these kinds of laws, except for one thing -- beyond hypocrisy. We've made a deal with you, but we've been pretending he's not here for decades. We make some logical twines in the title, so we don't call Taiwan a country, only the territory to which the criminal law is applicable, which is the property of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan. It's actually grabbing your left hand by the right ear - wow. However, since we acknowledge that there is a Taiwanese Minister of Justice and that he controls the situation in some territory, I think we also acknowledge that Taiwan exists and that is the territory that is occupied. So, instead of prostitution logic, Taiwan's sovereignty on the island of Formoza must finally be recognised, the facts must be acknowledged, and the pretensions of one and the other China should be stopped, to each other, to rule over the whole. Recognizing communist China and not recognizing Taiwan is some form of legitimization of the delusions of Chinese Communists regarding power over Formosa. I note that not only does Taiwan exist, it is even more independent than Poland. Taiwan's no one sends directives to implement, Taiwan does not ask anyone if they are allowed to cut a rootworm somewhere in the forest, Taiwan is not humiliated, it is not explained to others from judicial reform in its own country, it is not threatened by procedures to check the rule of law. Taiwan has become rich without money from the European Union, not begging for this money, does not ask what it can spend it on. Taiwan does not tell its citizens that their well-being depends on them signing up and being polite, they will get grants. Taiwan developed much better than Poland without begging, only thanks to work and relatively free market, without any idealization, but - as you can see - that was enough. What is more, Taiwan is developing despite the extreme geopolitical disadvantage, while our cowardly politicians outside the control room say that Poland cannot afford independence because it lies between the east and the west, after all it is completely different from other countries that have no one in the east or in the west. However, while the whole European Union stumbles over its own legs in its inefficient policy to fight the pandemic, Taiwan stopped the epidemic. 742, seven dead, 0.3 dead per million inhabitants. By comparison Poland: 616 dead at the moment. So Taiwan is doing 2053 times better than Poland. Of course, it also has its costs, but in this case this effort was worthwhile. He's had some effect. So instead of looking at the guidelines from Brussels, the capital of the state, which has the highest rate of death per million inhabitants, let's ask Taiwanese experts how this is done. In any case, it is ridiculous that Poland does not recognise Taiwan's independence and expects its own, which it has less. So let us recognize Taiwan's independence before they cease to recognize ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u378	Thank you very much. At this club appearances were completed. Three Members have joined the questions. Is there anyone else willing? You're welcome. If not, I close the list by setting the time to ask a question - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u379	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you about the death penalty, because in this convention, there's nothing in this agreement about it. Question: "Did the government ever talk about it in any way and try to introduce an issue into this agreement, e.g. prohibit the enforcement of such a prohibition on persons who have been made pursuant to Article. 4 extradited in Taiwan for crimes committed by them? Second thing. Is this deal gonna cost you? If so, what is the Polish side? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u380	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Andrzej Shejna, the Left Club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u381	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I was going to ask you a question, but I was a little inspired by Mr Sosnierz. I know he's looking into Taiwan because there's a possible death penalty. There are other social issues that we will, of course, convince Taiwan to withdraw from them. Stay out of this. But I now have for Mr Sosnier, ladies and gentlemen, another message - bad news for Mr Sosnier. We have just had a discussion about the Istanbul Convention, about women's rights. Well, the District Court in Kielce dismissed the proceedings that were brought against the director of my office, the feminist, Małgorzata Marenin, who protested before the Kielce Cathedral in the fight under the slogan: stop pedophilia in the Church during the pandemic, claiming that her actions were motivated by noble motives, Mr. Just as you do not understand the noble motives of the messengers who appeared on behalf of the Left, defending the rights of women, defending them in the face of violence, defending their dignity, respect, so you will not understand, of course, what the court in Kielce has done, defending the right to a noble demonstration against pedophilia in the Church, so you will not understand other issues which are related to human rights, but I will seek to persuade you to do so. I bow to you. What kind of comment is that? It didn't make any sense at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u382	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Thomas Piotr Nowak to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u383	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the question of what similar documents on legal cooperation are like in the area of crime primarily online in that part of Asia. What is the scale of these online crimes? I understand she's growing right now. Do we have the ability to control these online crimes? Does the Polish citizen have a sense of security in this area, or are we exposed to criminal activities that we do not know how to work so far, we cannot do it? Thank you very much. Can I do it now? Corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u384	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Minister Romanowski, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will speak as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u385	Unfortunately, Mr Shejna has already left and... But I'll tell him. That's what you're gonna tell me. I didn't understand any of the facts that Mr. Sheikh put together in this one whole. I realized he was referring to me, but I don't really know why. I understand that this was referring not to the present point at all, but to the previous one. I wanted to ask you, since we're talking about... Because you accused me of not understanding this effort, the noble effort of the messengers who are fighting here for the Istanbul Convention. I wanted to point out that Mrs. Lubnauer came in here and said how many women have been beaten here in the last few months. Somehow the Istanbul Convention didn't help them. This Istanbul Convention therefore does not work. I therefore believe that this is an illusory and unnecessary action. And that's what I talked about in my speech. If someone doesn't understand, I don't think it's easier to explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u386	Thank you very much, sir. I don't understand either. What would you like to correct if you didn't understand Mr. Sheikh's statement? That's the fact that he's picking on me, and you don't know what it is. He put together some facts and... Oh, I see. I would now ask Mr Marcin Romanowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, to answer questions in remote mode. [[The speaker's speech is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u387	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to the answer to the first question, the death penalty is it is, of course, regulated by this provision, which the Member referred to, namely, the provision refers to the application of national law, Polish law accordingly, and our Code of Criminal Procedure in Article. As a negative condition for extradition, point 604 §1 (6) as inadmissible indicates the legitimate concern that a death penalty may be imposed or executed in the requesting State in respect of the issued person. Besides, all this agreement, which is transposed through this law, which we are currently debating, is based on this philosophy, that Polish or Taiwanese law applies accordingly. The second question has been raised, which concerns crime, the scale of this crime. As far as Polish-Taiwan relations are concerned, a certain picture of this... Of course, not all of these proposals concern cybercrime, but it is true that Taiwanese citizens made themselves of Poland the place to commit these crimes precisely because of the lack of regulation of our relations by means of such an agreement. They were hoping that legal cooperation would be very slow. And it was. But going back to that scale, it was the National Public Prosecutor's Office that recorded e.g. in 2016, eight Polish applications, one Taiwanese, in 2017, four Polish, five Taiwanese respectively, in 2018 eight Polish, two Taiwanese, in 2019 one Polish, two Taiwanese respectively. So this is the scale of legal cooperation in criminal law. As regards other relations, other agreements that govern such matters with the Taiwanese party, as Mr Bartoszewski has already mentioned, the People's Republic of China has also concluded such an agreement, as has Germany, France or the United States. And they have a very similar character. On the other hand, when it comes to regulation on the prevention of cybercrime at all, I may not be a specialist here, all the more so than far-eastern regulation, but they are quite similar in nature and state of development, if we can express our regulations, as we know from cooperation, which is precisely the legal one, between our law enforcement authorities. Finally, I would just like to stress that this agreement, this law which transposes this agreement between the Republic of Poland and the territory mentioned in the title of this law, is important because its scope is indeed broad, because it includes legal aid, extradition, transfer of convicted persons, provision of information. In this way, in a comprehensive way, just as the other countries mentioned above, we will have our relations on the application of criminal law within the framework of judicial and prosecution proceedings. This will certainly contribute to the fact that we will expand the legal cooperation base. It is worth noting, of course, that this is not a classic international agreement. I can also add, by the way, that the status of a representative of this territory in Poland is not diplomatic and does not apply to it, for example. Immunity. Indeed, Taiwan has a specific legal status, hence this tool, which had already been used to transpose the double taxation law. Therefore, I would like to express my hope that the introduction of these solutions, the adoption of this as a law will contribute to the fact that our relations with Taiwan's territory, including economic relations, will be able to develop better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u388	Thank you very much, Minister. As the rapporteur of the committee is not in the Chamber, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law on strategic reserves, print No 839. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I don't hear any objections, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the proposal. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government draft law on strategic reserves (prints Nos 829 and 839). I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u389	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, I present the report of the committee on the Government's draft law on strategic reserves, Parliamentary printing No. 839. The 23rd Sejm meeting of yesterday pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. The Commission has examined the bill today. During an in-depth, almost 3-hour committee debate, a number of substantive and legislative amendments were tabled, most of which were included in the draft law on strategic reserves annexed to the report. The Act sets up a Government Strategic Reserve Agency based on an existing Material Reserve Agency to improve crisis resolution, both locally and nationally. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets requests the High Sejm to approve the draft law annexed to the committee's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u390	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion. And I would ask you to present the position of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice of Mr Rafał Bochenk, who will present this position in a remote manner. [[A Member's statement is displayed on videos]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u391	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law on strategic reserves. The past year, the unpredictable situation related to the outbreak of Coronavirus, the extraordinary socio-economic crisis has exposed the disability of many institutions, the conditions under which they function so far, despite the fact that they should work particularly effectively in such difficult and extraordinary situations. This concerns such a crucial for the security of Poles of the institution, which is the Agency of Material Reserves, which will be called the Governmental Agency of Strategic Reserves by virtue of the Act under procedure. In order to deal effectively with the challenges posed by reality, to help Poles, to provide them with real security, the agency, which is an important part of the entire system of critical support of the state, should be an institution that responds efficiently and quickly to emerging crises. This is supported by modified provisions setting out new, broader principles for the operation of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. The modifications are based on experience gained in the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus and the failure of existing legal solutions. Therefore, the adoption of this law is not only expected, but even desirable, because, as Law and Justice, we have always valued the effectiveness and real dimension of the action taken in the administration of the State, unlike many of our political competitors, where PR was involved and the conviction that this would somehow happen. The Act introduces amendments aimed at more effective security of the Republic of Poland and its citizens in the event of risks which may disturb the supply of certain goods and goods on the market and demand for them, it is intended to safeguard the lives and health of citizens. Its aim is to simplify and make procedures more flexible, based on which the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency operates. We know, ladies and gentlemen, the positions of the politicians of the Civic Platform and the Left, who very often, at the committee meeting or during the debate at the plenary session, stressed, raised arguments as if we should not adopt this law at the moment, asked why we are adopting it. There were also calls for us not to change this law. Excuse me, but what are we waiting for? Until the economy is inefficient, until people run out of articles to live with? Suggestions to postpone the entry into force of this law are anti-state, are contrary to the Polish right of state, the interests of the citizens, and in fact they are part of the narrative of those who wish our country as badly as possible. The proposed law primarily regulates issues relating to the creation, maintenance, provision, exchange, replacement and liquidation of strategic reserves, as well as their financing. The scope of tasks carried out by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency for which strategic reserves are set up is also extended to include a catalogue of the assortment necessary to achieve the objectives set out in Article. 3 of this law, which will better respond to a rapidly changing socio-economic and political environment. The new Act ensures better coordination of the activities of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency, which will be subject to the President of the Council of Ministers as a supervisory authority, which is justified and necessary because it is the Prime Minister who is the central coordinator of crisis management, while at the same time being the Chairman of the Government's Crisis Management Team. The Prime Minister will also be the authority responsible for issuing decisions on the provision of reserves. A number of provisions contained in the draft law allow the agency to operate faster and more efficiently, including: by cancelling purchasing procedures or rules for the creation of reserves or for the conclusion of contracts relating to the storage of reserves, this will always be done using transparent, non-discriminatory and competitive conditions for the selection of counterparties. This will work especially in emergency and crisis situations. The Act extends the Agency's tasks to new areas, in particular transport and logistics services, as well as tasks related to the management of real estate owned or owned by the Agency, which will contribute to the operation and efficiency of its activities. The project also regulates the catalogue of persons covered by the obligation to restrict their activities and to make periodic statements on their assets, which will ensure greater transparency of their activities. This will also safeguard the Treasury against possible fraud by agency staff. All actions are and will be transparent and taken in the interests of citizens are and will also be necessary. So, ladies and gentlemen, openly, transparently, efficiently and legally operate institutions under the direction of the Government of Law and Justice, unlike institutions acting under the direction of those who have already ruled in Poland for 8 years and would like to continue to act in stealth, quietly, under the table, occasionally consulting in cemeteries or parking lots. Oh, we remember. High Seym! The bill is not only needed, but, above all, it is expected. The Law and Justice Club welcomes this draft law and recommends its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u392	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Sławomir Neumann to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u393	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the impression that the Law and Justice Club has not read this law and has been entangled in the government's story of the need for a law that gives no new prerogatives except for a few things, and in fact, besides handing this agency over to the Prime Minister. But if you think, gentlemen and ladies of the PiS, that the direct supervision of the Prime Minister will be some kind of magic wand that will improve the operation of this agency, then you are mistaken, because so far the Prime Minister has made political decisions on the purchase of coal by the Material Reserve Agency. It was the Prime Minister who decided that the Treasury companies would buy masks or other personal protective equipment. After all, it was the Prime Minister's decision, there is no need to change the bill. The question is, why do you keep rushing the bill like that all the time? The pace of the work is completely incompatible with the matter of this law and to real needs, because, as I say, most of these records are in other laws and you use them. This bill doesn't give you any extra powers. Do you think that writing down the possibility of buying outside the Public Procurement Act will speed things up or make it easier for you? After all, today such solutions are contained in the COVID laws, after all, throughout the pandemic period you bought quite a lot of different kinds of materials, equipment. It wasn't always effectively bought out, sometimes it wasn't delivered until today, the money was spent and it wasn't settled. I will no longer be angry about renting a plane, which was the largest plane in the world that flew to Poland. He was to bring in the super-equipped equipment purchased by the Prime Minister by the Treasury companies and we know what was the problem of using this equipment and these masks or this protective clothing. It's outside any public procurement law. You were buying respirators from an arms dealer. Until today, these ventilators are gone, the money's gone, the money's gone. If you are really learning from almost a dozen months of pandemic, then you should act exactly the opposite, which is not to remove these procedures and this muzzle of procedures from yourself, but to act exactly the opposite, that is to follow procedures, so that they are clear, legible, purchasing procedures. And it's not like that here. It's as usual in this bill, you say something like this: give us a free hand, we'll spend millions. or billions without any restrictions, we'll buy everything where we like it and where we want it to be. That's wrong thinking. The only change to make such purchases is that the agency will actually now be subject to the President of the Council of Ministers. You can say that Morawiecki's people will buy, not Szumowski's or Sasin's. Well, that's gonna be a big change, actually. Only is it necessary to change the management system of this agency during the pandemic, when this agency should really be useful to the state and help Poles in order to change these orders? You are now working hard to make the third wave of pandemic a surprise for you, because the first wave of pandemic was a surprise, the second wave of pandemic is probably a surprise, because instead of thinking about how to secure Poland, how to secure Poles for the third wave of pandemic, you are now dealing with organizational games, how to change the agency's subsidiaries, so that someone else decides to buy so that someone else decides the authorities of this agency. It's a mess and a mess to an institution that's not famous for some super-organization anyway. So the question is, why are you doing this today at a point where it should actually work much, much better? Isn't it better not to push over who will do and supervise the new agency, you should not tell Poles that this agency already. Did she buy or order 70 million syringes because that's what it's going to take to inoculate Poles with COVID? There are countless press conferences of the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health about how you are super-prepared for vaccination of Poles with a vaccine on COVID, but we have not heard, in fact, to secure these 70 million syringes, because that will be it. Today, the Minister says there's going to be a vaccination point in every municipality. And I ask myself, " If that's the case, is it the 2,500." Have you at least secured the refrigerators or freezers for these vaccines? Has the agency already ordered these refrigerators to deliver them to these municipalities so they can keep these vaccines quiet? I don't think we're hearing about it. We're just hearing about changing the name of the agency to government. And it's so good that it's not national, because it could still be a national material reserves agency - then everything would have worked out for sure. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I think that in this case the bill is unnecessary, unnecessary at the moment and harmful, and there's no point in disturbing these people in such a difficult situation at work. That's why we're filing for rejection. Knowing that you are attached to it and that you will probably reject this proposal, I am making two more amendments, which will at least improve the functioning of this law, include the Public Procurement Act in the act and extend the entry time, i.e. vacathio legis. Please, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u394	Thank you very much, Mr President, for coming forward with the amendments. And now Mr Wiesław Szczepański will speak, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Left Club, I have the honour to present to the High House our position on the draft law on strategic reserves, contained in prints Nos 829 and 839. Today we are debating the bill at an express rate. On Wednesday we received the bill, on Tuesday was the first reading, today is the second reading and adoption of the law. We've had a lot of press conferences lately, groceries, agency sales, that we're ready for COVID, we've got supplies, and then it turns out that the king is naked. I would like to ask: How is the agency prepared, what was the previous speaker talking about, for the mass scale of vaccination? Do we have supplies of syringes, needles, other equipment, but also refrigeration equipment? Why the change in the firefight against the COVID? Shouldn't this wait until the virus is gone? I wonder if this agency is needed in the light of the government's current actions at all. We recall the Prime Minister welcoming the incoming plane, the Treasury companies buying various kinds of equipment or private entrepreneurs. The agency's only changing the name today. Is changing the name gonna be a cure for its bad effect? Is it a lack of confidence in the Minister of State Assets that he is under the supervision of the Prime Minister? Shouldn't reform this entity from the inside out and not change its name? Shouldn't this law simply change in itself today, say, the activities of this institution rather than make an informational change? Although the contested law has an impact on many entities, it is estimated that of almost 100,000. companies, local authorities, the Border Guard, the fire department, were not consulted at all. I presume that such a rapid change may be intended to cover up some of the irregularities that have occurred in this agency. I would like to ask, Minister, how much coal has this agency purchased or actually had in recent years? How much of it did she sell? How many millions did she spend on this, and how many are left in this undeveloped agency? We observe this law, as my colleagues said, also the Public Procurement Act. The Act defines among others. rules on the creation, maintenance, availability, liquidation and financing of strategic reserves, as well as tasks and organisations for the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. But I would also like to ask you about HR issues. Well, I read this bill, and it says that the president of the agency is appointed by the Prime Minister, but the President has an alternate or deputy. This I would like to know how many: two, three, five or, let's say, as many jobs as are needed, because you haven't determined the maximum number of deputies, but there has been a definition of the deputies, so one will be, I don't know, from the fuels, the other will be from the coal, the third will be from the syringes, the fourth will be from something else. I'd like to know how big these deputies are going to be. How much more will the operating costs of this agency increase? And will it really improve its functioning by submitting the agency to the Prime Minister? I just wanted to say that my club is gonna hold off voting on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u396	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the parliamentary club of the Left. Since there are no other representatives of clubs and circles, Minister Michael Dworczyk... And the questions? Excuse me. I'm sorry, too, Minister. Just a minute. If there are no more Members willing, I will close the list by setting the time to ask questions for one minute. Mr Piotr Nowak will be the first question to be asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u397	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the ventilators are at the Material Reserve Agency for the time being. Please tell me if these ventilators are certified and what's the story of those shipments that arrived in the big Antonów and were accepted by the Material Reserve Agency. Minister, you're doing the second row. Prime Minister Morawiecki wants to take over this agency, he'll probably have an appetite for a lot of other agencies. Is this because there's a weakness, some lack of effective management, the management of these ministers? Does the Prime Minister want to take these powers away from them and take them because he has no faith that these ministers will be properly managed? And the third question. There are new types of contracts with service producers, under these contracts will, I understand, be contracted services or products that are not yet performed. Will there be an annual readiness fee? What's it gonna look like? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u398	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u399	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, over the years, the PiS government has used strategic reserves to actually use certain political movements. The measures that should be taken to ensure security were designed to pursue policy. Personally, I don't believe in this bill, I mean. I don't think you're able to change the paradigm you're following, which you can see when you're looking at public finances. It's about propaganda, it's about power and access to your own. And that's the basic problem. This bill you want to cover incapacity, what you've done with the strategic reserves, that is, subjecting them to their current policies. I have a simple question, a test for the truth, Minister. How much money have you spent in the last five years to carry out propaganda projects like this? the purchase of coal or the purchase of ventilators from arms dealers, etc.? [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you come to Parliament, you will confess these sins, then perhaps we will begin to believe what you represent here. And so far, it's pure propaganda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u400	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u401	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Do you think today, in this economic situation, in a pandemic situation, is the right time to implement this law? Is this the right time and time for confusion with the legal acts that concern the reorganisation of the Material Reserve Agency? Don't you think that the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme, to be properly prepared for five years, should be under the control of the Sejm? Shouldn't the Prime Minister of this government report to the Sejm on the implementation of this programme? Today you are talking about the fact that the procedures related to the functioning of the Public Procurement Act are actually coming out of the scope of the act. You have a free hand (the bell), then maybe you should include in this draft law just presenting a report by the Prime Minister on the implementation of the strategic reserve programme, which is to be prepared for 5 years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u402	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Law and Justice, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Currently, through the Material Reserve Agency, the government purchases medical resources and all other health crisis related funds with the current pandemic. Minister, will this bill improve the fight against pandemics, and to what extent? Why will the country's strategic actions in connection with this law be more efficient in general? The current situation is no longer a ground, this is a real test in the fight against the possibilities of the state. I would also like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, to apply for the third reading of the draft law on strategic reserves, in print Nos 829 and 839, without referring to the committee the amendments and proposals tabled for this project, after the service of their Members. Preferably without the Seym. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u404	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How to listen to government relations, how they deal with pandemics, from success to success. And I'm thinking, since you have such great tools and such success, why spoil this bill, why don't we just leave it where it was when it's so good? At the committee meeting, we also learned one interesting thing. Then, when one of her colleagues wanted to make an amendment requiring the security of bank guarantees from counterparties - it would be without a tender, without public procurement, but although with a bank guarantee - we heard that this was not necessary because there are other instruments. This is a de facto lex arms dealer. What's the point of bank guarantees if you can secure yourself, for example? Bulletproof vest? How are you gonna deal with that? Isn't it also that if we introduce these changes at the time of the bill's announcement, it will actually act backwards, because if the court determines the correctness of the decision, it will take into account the current legal situation? I have a question. Are you really ashamed that after the various lexes of others who were, and after these experiences, this time you offer the Polish and Polish lex arms dealer? Yes, this agency should definitely be called a national agency, because in Poland the national agency means that the nation pays and the government rules. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u406	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u407	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Contrary to the declarations you made on the occasion of the election, you bring in coal, you break records in importing coal from abroad. At the same time, the Material Reserve Agency was famous at the beginning of the year when it bought coal for a warehouse in Ostrów Wielkopolski. State companies do not receive coal, imports are record, mines extract coal, which is in debt, so 1 million t you download to Ostrów Wielkopolski. I wanted to ask, how much of this million have you distributed? How much coal is there today? Who's the recipient of this coal? Finally, this proposal, Mr President, as regards not to refer it back to the committee. If the committees are unnecessary, maybe the Sejm won't be needed in a minute either. We have the impression that you already have the Seym... Maybe we should just do it in one reading or by acclamation. How can you submit applications if such important laws are processed so quickly, [[♪ The bell ♪]] So you don't want to send the amendments back to the committee? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u408	Thank you very much. As a final question, Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice will ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u409	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! During the discussion of the bill, we can see very clearly, very clearly, which logic is followed by representatives of the Civic Platform, which unfortunately needs to be called a total opposition. This logic says: the worse it is for Poland, the better it is for the opposition. Unfortunately, the limitless criticism of this bill confirms this. Minister! I would like to ask: How will the Act improve, especially in crisis situations, the access of Poles to the most important materials and goods? It's about a situation like today when we have a pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u410	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. Now I will ask a member of the Council of Ministers of Minister Michał Dworczyk, the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers to refer to questions previously asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would really like to address a few questions. I'm not able to relate to all of them, but we'll send information on, for example, how much coal was purchased. I just don't know. On the other hand, I would like to remind you that the purchase of coal was included in the plan to create strategic reserves and in the PiS government, and in the Platform's governance. And in one, and in the other term, he was bought. I would like to urge you not to give in to the temptation of such purely political wars, because we are talking about a tool, an instrument - using this term, I think of an agency - which is very important from the point of view of the state. How important it is was during the pandemic. We have not prepared this agency to fight the pandemic - neither we as the government of law and justice, nor you - the government of the Civic Platform, nor before the government of the Democratic Left Alliance. For years, the agency has been a neglected institution. It was only a pandemic that made us start to change it violently. In fact, this law is the next stage of the changes that are being made. Were they introduced quickly and sometimes chaoticly? Yeah, they were. The Pandemic just had such dynamics that some changes were made very quickly to adapt the agency to the reality and speed of action. On the other hand, these changes that we are proposing today are the next stage of reorganisation, the reform of this agency. In our view, they are going in the right direction. Why? Maybe it'll be a point of reference for you. Similar changes are taking place in Denmark, Romania and other countries where such agencies are moving under the premier centre. Why? Because the Material Reserve Agency deals with such a wide range of problems and its tasks go across so many different resorts that it is really appropriate to place it at the center of the government. It's a general remark. Ladies and gentlemen, I will refer to specific charges. I will respond to Mr Neumann. The situation is this way. We don't buy refrigerators for every municipality. You accuse us, on the one hand, that we are talking too much about preparing for the vaccination programme, because the Prime Minister or some minister comes out and talks about it. Well, it appears from this statement that we are not talking about this enough all the time, because specific information does not reach the people concerned. And we are talking about this because today, throughout Europe, all governments are trying to talk as much as possible about the vaccination programme, and that is our common task. I'm talking about the whole parliament. The point is to convince citizens that vaccinations are needed, that everyone should be vaccinated, that this preparation process is transparent and well planned, because only if Poles have a sense of security will they want to inoculate themselves, and this is in our common national interest. And now about the fridges. We do not buy them, because it would not make any sense for refrigerators that allow to keep the product at -90°C to stand in POZ in a small rural or rural-urban village. This preparation, when removed from the temperature -70°C - I am talking about the vaccinated company Pfizer - can be stored for 5 days at 2°-8°C, i.e. at the temperature in the refrigerator that practically every POZ is equipped with. Therefore, we organize the distribution of this particular vaccine so that there is no need to insert refrigerators in small municipalities. In large centres, of course, refrigerators are, like in the Material Reserve Agency, where such refrigerators have been purchased. That's one thing. The other thing is... I think the Member representing the Left Club - I'm sorry, because I didn't write it down - said that the agency was being transferred from the Ministry of State Assets. She's not, sir, because she was only there for a while. It is precisely how this agency was treated that also proves where it was, because it was already under the supervision of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Climate and the Ministry of State Assets. Now - I hope - it will be located in the center of this system, and that results from what I said. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My time is running out, so I'm just gonna say the last thing, because there were questions about what was being bought, what the agency was doing. Ladies and gentlemen, recently the agency has spent, thanks to purchases that have been made, among others. Four and a half thousand. respirators, 6,5 thousands. Cardio Monitors, 2.5 million protective suits, 3 million FFP2 and FFP3 masks, over 100 million other masks. Ladies and gentlemen, these provisions that we propose - which exclude purchases Only in a state security situation, because all other purchases made by the agency are normally subject to public procurement rules - we are introducing them so that we do not find ourselves in such a situation as in the COVID, when we had to quickly introduce legislation for the time of the pandemic, while fighting COVID. This is where we want to act ahead. One of your fellow Members has submitted a draft, a request for the Agency to report to the Parliamentary Commission or the Sejm. Okay, maybe that's a good idea. Make such an amendment, and we will think very seriously about it, because it is indeed one of the elements of the functioning of the state on which we should avoid political disputes. If this is to give you confidence in these changes, I think it is worth considering such an amendment. Thank you very much. We'll make an amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u412	Thank you very much, Minister. Corrigendum. Shortly, Mr Sławomir Neumann. Mr President will also want to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u413	Mr. Marshal! Minister! We didn't understand each other. It is clear that vaccination should be encouraged. Every reasonable person will be encouraged to inoculate as many Poles as possible. Whether it's in a national, nationwide program, no matter what it's called. I'm just saying, if it's going to be effective, we have to inoculate millions of Poles. Anyway, you're talking about it, too. You're saying we're actually ready to inoculate everyone. So you have to have 70 million syringes and you have to have enough vaccination points to not vaccinate for 10 years, just quickly. Perhaps it is worth considering your strategy, whether or not to buy these refrigerators, because this is not an expense that will blow up the state budget, that is 2,5 thousand. municipalities. A little more in cities, in large centres, but there must be enough vaccination points. Of course, this vaccine can stand for a few days, but if you think it's such great logistics and we will - I don't know - send it by post from the center where the vaccines are, to a small community, so that it can be vaccinated, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm worried this might not work. So we are talking with full responsibility that you should prepare this program as best as possible, because the vaccine can inhibit the virus. I believe that this will be the case and that we will all show together that we are going to get vaccinated and that this is a program that, regardless of its name, will be an effective remedy for the pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u414	Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski will take the last floor in the discussion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Despite this hot debate, I would like to thank all the Members and the Government's side very warmly for the substantive and thorough discussion at an almost 3-hour committee meeting, where, despite political differences, there was a great deal of interest, very much involvement in the work on the adoption of this law. However, the bill under consideration is very important because in what has been going on so far, i.e. in the fight against COVID-19, it was possible not on the ground, but in the fight to examine the possibilities of the state and the possibilities of the act, which so far existed, i.e. about the Agency for Material Reserves. Therefore, I think that this law, which sets up the Government's Agency for Strategic Reserves, will cause that the actions of the Polish state, both in the current pandemic crisis and all others, which - as life shows - will happen anyway, we will do better. However, once again, I thank you for all your comments and I would like to stress that the opposition amendments were also adopted at the committee meeting. I signed one of these amendments myself with the opposition representative. So what's the substance... Not one. One, not all of them, but a few others were accepted. Greetings. You're welcome to join us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u416	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. A request for a third reading was made in the discussion without reference to the committee. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. This is where we have exhausted the order of our sitting. I'm declaring a time-out. 6:30. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 mins 03 hours 18 min 34]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum. I would like to ask all Members to press any button to confirm their presence at the meeting. You're welcome. The meeting shall be attended by 441 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. I would like to remind you that the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens submitted requests to supplement the agenda with a point: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation prevailing in the power plant in Ostrołęka. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of We are voting on the request for information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the situation prevailing in the Ostrołęka power plant. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 220 for, 230 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Information from the Prime Minister on the state of preparation of medicinal products for the increased incidence of COVID-19 and measures taken to reduce the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus - voting. At the 22nd meeting of the Sejm, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion to reject information will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 215 - for, 233 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the request and therefore accepted the information. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act. The additional committee report shall be in print No 819-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Mark Ast to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u417	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present an additional report to the committee on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act and certain other laws. The Commission has today examined the amendments tabled at second reading. It recommends adopting Amendments 1 and 4, rejecting Amendments 2 and 3. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u418	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 819. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 1. Amendment 4 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 439 - for, 12 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 2. The adoption of this amendment will change the title of the law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 205 - for, 246 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 3. The adoption of this amendment will change the title of the law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 209 - for, 243 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 819, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 267 - for, 1 - against, withered - 184. The Sejm has passed a law on amending the Prison Service Act, the Law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans, and the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. We would like to refer to item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. The additional committee report shall be in print No 812-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u419	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Four amendments were tabled to the draft law on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal real estate stock during the second reading. Today, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Territorial Affairs and Regional Policy have examined these amendments and recommended that the High House reject Amendment 1. She refers to art. 4 laying down the rules for the adoption of a resolution by the competent council of the municipality. It is appropriate to reject this amendment because the definition of a rigid limit of 35% as a minimum of the usable area of premises or buildings transferred to the municipality can eliminate such ways of obtaining land under housing, where the price of land is lower, because this exchange must be equivalent. As far as amendments 2, 3 and 4 are concerned, they should be voted on together and the joint committees recommend that the High House adopt these amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u420	Thank you, Member. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 812. In an additional report, the committees present the amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment to Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 3 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 1. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 1 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 54 for, 395 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 15 applicants propose to add point 2a. Amendments 3 and 4 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2, 3 and 4 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 286 - for, 24 - against, 141 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 812, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 436 - for, no one was against, 16. The Sejm passed a law on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2019 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners together with the position of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the report, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has taken note of the report. I would remind you that the committee requests the adoption of the report in print No 292. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the report in print No 292 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 49 - for, 279 - against, 124 abstained. I state that the Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore took note of the report. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: The Extraordinary Commission's report on the government draft law amending the law - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 796-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u421	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present an additional report by the Extraordinary Commission on amendments to the codifications of the Government draft law amending the Act - Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. During the second reading, nine amendments were tabled, which the committee discussed at today's meeting. The Commission recommends amendments 1 and 3 to 9 to be accepted and amendment 2 rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u422	Thank you, Member. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 796. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In amendments 3 to 8, applicants propose to add new articles in the draft law. Their adoption will change the title of the Act, which is the content of Amendment 1. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. Four projects. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3 to 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 258 - for, 178 - against, 16 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment to the article. 2 point 4 of the draft law, the applicants propose a new wording of the joint article. 21a amended act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 219 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 796, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 316 - for, 132 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Administrative Procedure Act and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the law - Code of Criminal Procedure. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 732. The Commission also presents minority proposals on which we will vote first. Minority requests have been submitted to the Article. 1 draft law amending amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. In the first minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording §1 in Article. 185a of the amended act. This proposal brings together a second minority proposal. We will vote on these proposals together. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 1 and 2 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 163 for, 233 against, 56 abstentions. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the third minority application, applicants shall propose a new wording §1 in Article. 185b of the amended act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 3rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 163 - for, 235 - against, with 54 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 732, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 446 - in favour, no one was against, 6 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law amending the Code of Criminal Procedure Act. We would like to refer to item 15 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the scope of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, drawn up in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print No. 822. The committees also present a proposal from minorities, on which we will vote first. In the minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants shall propose a different wording of point 2 and delete point 3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 198 - for, 236 - against, 18 stopped. I state that the Sejm has rejected the minority's motion. We proceed to the vote on the whole draft law. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 822, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 443 - for, 1 - against, with a hold of 7. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Fight against Violence against Women and Domestic Violence in Istanbul on 11 May 2011. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which criminal law is applicable belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 831. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 831, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 454 - in favour, no one was against, 1 abstention. The Sejm passed a law on the principles of legal cooperation in criminal matters between the Republic of Poland and the territory to which the criminal law belonging to the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice of Taiwan applies. That's where we've exhausted the agenda. 23rd meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition, has the floor. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] We're about to begin making parliamentary statements. Please, Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir. Are you an MP? There isn't. Please, Mrs Monika Wielichowska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u423	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Never in the past 30 years has there been such a politicized government financial hand as in the case of the Government Local Initiative Fund. The fund was not meant to divide, to revive the economy throughout Poland, to counteract the negative effects of COVID, to support local development, to be a national impulse for development, but to become an exclusion for many cities, municipalities and districts. He has become disrespectful to the people of the region, where not a single dollar has arrived, but we all pay the same taxes everywhere. He's become an objective bat for those mayors, ladies and gentlemen who don't want to get involved with the PiS. Public power treated money as political prey, distributed it without the application of rules, criteria and without the possibility of appealing local governments. Hundreds of local governments didn't get a last call or a zloty. Disgraceful! This happened not only in Lower Silesia, Wałbrzych, Kłodzku city, Świdnica town, Dzierżoniów town, Ząbkowice Śląskie, Nowa Ruda town, Lądku-Zdrój, Kudowie-Zdroj, Lewinie Kłodzkim, Szczytnej, Polany-Zdrój, Stronie Śląski district, Kłodzkim, Wałbrzych, Jedlin-Zdrój, Głuszycy, Starych Bogoczowice, Świdnica commune, Dobromierz, Świebodzice, Żarów, Bielawy, Pieszice or Stoszowice in Wałbrzych district, but also hundreds more cities and communes throughout Poland, as well as they did not receive this support. [[Applause]] Disgraceful!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u424	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u425	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I will continue what Mrs Wielichowska said about the situation in Lower Silesia. And so: Bolesławiec - zero, Osiecznica - zero, Warta Bolesławiecka - zero... Disgraceful! ... Paszowice - zero, Wądroże Wielkie - zero, mountain gminas in difficulty, Jelenia Góra - zero, Karpacz - zero, Kowary - zero, Szklarska Poręba - zero... Disgraceful! ... Stara Kamienica - zero, Lubawka - zero, Marciszów - zero, Zgorzelec - zero, rural municipality Zgorzelec - zero, Sulików - zero, Zavidów - zero, Piensk - zero, Leśna - zero, Gryfów Śląski, poorest municipalities - zero, Lubomierz - zero, Lwówek Śląski - zero, commune Pilgrzymka - zero, commune Świerzawa, with the lowest income per capita - zero, Złotoryja - zero, Zagrodno - zero. These aren't all the municipalities that didn't get support, but I mentioned the most important ones. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u426	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u427	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Probably for the first time in the history of the last 30 years without adopting any criteria, only according to the party division, you have done what is part of the lack of solidarity with municipalities that actually need help, whose financial situation has never been good. They are often the highest levels of unemployment that have not been supported. I will name: commune Oborniki Śląskie - zero, commune Prusice - zero, powiat głogowski - zero, commune Strzelin - zero, commune Kondratowice - zero, commune Wiązów - zero, commune Przeworno - zero, commune Szczyna - zero, commune Chojnów - zero, commune Ścinawa - zero, commune Milicz - zero, commune Twardotóra - zero, commune Mięców - zero, commune Miębórz - zero, commune Chocianów, one of the poorest in Dolny Śląsk - zero, municipality Wisznia Mała - zero, commune Żmigród - zero, commune Brzeg Dolny - zero, commune Wińsko, also one of the poorest agricultural communes - zero, commune Wołów - zero, commune Wroclaw and district Wrocław - zero, commune Długołęłęka - zero, commune Kąty Wrocławskie - zero - zero. This is a list that should be a list of your remorse... They have no conscience. ...in relation to the residents who were waiting for help. You'll be cleared for that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u428	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Lenz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u429	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The scandal that is taking place in connection with the allocation of local investment funds is that PiS simply wants to give this money to those who only eat from their hands who bow to them... Disgraceful! ...not to those who can spend money well on the needs of the people. Money doesn't have a political tone. The residents are waiting for pavements, streets, sports facilities, kindergartens. And PiS wants this kindergarten to be established in the commune where the governor supported PiS, and in the commune where the governor supported Rafał Trzaskowski in the last election, there was no kindergarten. What do people care? What's the PiS doing? He divides Poles into better and worse. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship, Presidential cities: Inowroclaw, Toruń, Włocławek - zero funding. Districts such as Bydgoszcz, Chełmiński, Grudziądzki, Lipnowski, Mogileński, Nakielski, Sępoleński, secular, wąbrzeski, Żniński - zero funding for investments. Municipalities in Kujawsko-Pomorskie - in the Aleksandrski district: the municipality of Aleksandrów Kujawski, Ciechocinek, Nieszawa, Kapaniec - zero funding. The districts I want to replace then - please wait a moment, electronics has its rights and this time I'm a little disappointed, but we'll be able to... I hope this is not the action of Minister Schreiber of Kujawsko-Pomorskie, who underestimated his own region and did not give money also in his voivodship. Powiat brodnicki: gmina Bartnicka, gmina Brodnica, gmina Górzno, gmina Jabłonowo Pomorskie, gmina Osiek, gmina Świebnia - zero co-financing. In the powiat Bydgoszcz: gmina Dąbrowa Chełmińska, gmina Dobrcz, gmina Osielsko, gmina Solec Kujawski - zero co-financing. Chełmiński County: municipality of Chełmno, municipality of Chełmno, municipality of Popowo Biskupie, municipality of Stolno, municipality of Unisław - zero funding. Golubsko-dobrzyński County: Ciechocin Municipality, Golub-Dobrzyń Municipality, Golub-Dobrzyń City - zero co-financing. Grudziądz County: Grudziądz rural municipality - zero funding. Municipality of Łasin, municipality of Radzyń Chełmiński, municipality of Rogoźno, municipality of Świecie nad Osa - zero funding. Powiat inowrocławski: gmina Dąbrowa Biskupia, gmina Inowroclaw gmina miejska, Inowroclaw gmina wielska, Janikowo, Rojewo - zero co-financing. Powiat Lipnowski: gmina Bobrów, Kikoł, Lipno, Tłuchowo, Wielgie - zero funding. Mogilno County: Dąbrowa, Mogilno, Shooting - zero funding. In the nakielski district, nothing was received by the municipality of Kcynia. Soviet County: Good, Piotrków Kujawski, Radziejów - zero funding. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Rypiński County: Rogowo, Rypin, Skrwilno, Wąpiełsk - zero funding. Sępolen County: the city of Sępólno, Sośno - zero funding. Secular District: Dragach, New, Axis, Prusz, World - zero funding. Land District of Toruń: Chełmża rural municipality, Lubicz, Obrowo, Wielka Nieszawka - zero funding. Tucholian county: municipality of Cekcyn - zero funding. Powiat wąbrzeski: Dębowa Łąka, Płużnica, Wąbrzeźno city, Wąbrzeźno commune - zero funding. Powiat włocławski: Baruchowo, Chodecz, Fabianki, Kowal urbanska, Kowal rural commune, Lubanie, Lukierniec, Włocławek rural commune - zero funding. Finally, the district of Żniński, in Pałuki: the municipality of Barcin, the municipality of Janowiec Wielkopolski, the municipality of Łabiszyn, the municipality of Rogowo - zero funding. We are outraged as locals and residents of our region, that we have been treated this way. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u430	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u431	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government has promised to help and support local governments to invest in the crisis. The money was distributed not according to criteria or algorithms, but according to the political key. In the Lublin Voivodeship, which is one of the poorest in Poland and throughout the European Union, this assistance, ladies and gentlemen, looks, among others. yes: Biała Podlaska - zero, Drelów - zero, Janów Podlaski - zero, Konstantinów - zero, Międzyrzec Podlaski - zero, Rokotno - zero, Rokotno - zero, Sosnów - zero, Tuczna - zero, Wisznice - zero, Zalesie - zero, Biały Podlaska - zero, Biłgoraj - zero, Commune Biłgoraj - zero, Józefów - zero, Potok Upper - zero, Ternogród - zero, Terespol - zero, Dorohusk - zero, Dubienka - zero, Stone - zero, Dziowiec - zero, Rejowiec - zero, Rejowiec - zero, Mirodze, Horode Hota - zero, Siedliszcze - zero, Wojsławice - zero, Żmudźno - zero, Dołgobyczów - zero, Dołboczów - zło, Dróbórów - złochów - zło, Miłotrz, Hrodło, Horodło, Horodcze And more than 100 municipalities, including Lublin Municipality and Puławy Municipality. It's just a scandal. You share people with the worse and the better. And we will not forget it and the Poles will not forget it. [[Applause]] Disgraceful.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u432	Thank you. Please, Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u433	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The government Local Investment Fund was intended to serve all local governments. That was his basic assumption. By distributing money, PiS admitted it only to his own, because he wanted to punish the self-government of the disobedient. However, he did not punish the local government, but punished the inhabitants of these local governments. 0 PLN in Lublin received among others.: Lublin, gmina Cyców, gmina Łęczna, Milejów, Puchaczów, Spiczyn, Krzywda, Miasto Łuków, gmina Stoczek Łukowski, Wojciejszków, Józefów nad Wisła, Karczmiska, Łaziska, Dębowa Kłoda, Jabłoń, Milanów, Parczew, Podedwór, Siemienie, Sosnowica, Końskowola, Markuszów, gmina Puławy, Czemierzki, Kąkolewnica, Komarówka Podlaska, Radzyń Podlaski, Ulan-Majorat, Wohyń, Nowodwór, Sężyca, Piaski, Rybczewice, Lawniki, Bełżec, Jarczów, Susiec, Tomaszów Lubelski, gmina Tyszówek, Orchówek, Hanna, Hańsk, Stary Brouszulin, town Włożce, Sządów, Szęczów, Szęców, Szębieczów, Sządów, Szmiec, Sządów, Szbębębębębędów, Szędów, Szów, Szów, Szmie, Szębędów, Szędów, Wybębędów, Zabębębębie, Zadów, Zadów, Zabębębie, Szów, Zabie, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zabiebiebiebiebieb, Zabiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebiebie, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam, Zam We promise that none of the self-governments affected by the PiS will be left alone with this harm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u434	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Waldemar Slugocki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u435	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki liked zeros. I think he's collecting a row of zeros. One zero we all know, but why do you love the Prime Minister to zero for Poles and Poles living in Polish villages, towns and towns? We don't know that. Why do you treat Polish local authorities so unfairly, Prime Minister? In lubuskie voivodship: powiat zielonogórski - zero. As far as the municipalities are concerned, out of 82, 35 municipalities, you have given such a gift to your beloved zero. Babimost - zero, Bytom Odrzański - zero, Cybinka - zero, Dąbie - zero, Rain - zero, Gozdnica - zero, Jasień - zero, Kargowa - zero, Kolsko - zero, Kostrzyn nad Odra - zero, Kożuchów - zero, Krosno Odrzańskie - zero, Krzeszyce - zero, Małomice - zero, Maszewo - zero, Municipal commune Nowa Sól - zero, rural status Nowa Sól - zero, Nowogród Bobrzański - zero, Osno Lubuskie - zero, Świednica - zero, Świedzin - zero, Santok - zero, Szczaniec - zero, Słubice - zero, Słubice - also zero, Strzelce Krajńskie - zero, Szprotawa - zero, Swidnica - zero, Świednica - zero, Świełodzin - zero, Torządzin - zero, Torzym - zero, Torzym - zero, Trzebiechów - zło, Trzebębębębębki - zielka - zielka - zło, Trzębębębębębętrz, Zielka - zielka - zielka - zło, Trze, Tróżka - zło, Trze, Trze, Trze, Zielka - zło, Trze, Trze, Trze, Trze, Trzębla - zębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębębęców - z, z, Ziel, Ziel - z, Ziel - z, Ziel - z, Ziel - z, Ziel - z, Ziel - z, Ziel - z, Zło, Ziel -zło , Ziel -zło , Ziel - znie ,Zło ,Z Prime Minister! In Lubuskie communes there are the same Poles as in other places of our beautiful country, but unfortunately you were not polite to accept the substantive criteria on which you would share the same government fund of local initiatives. You have adopted a simple and perhaps only criterion that you are able to understand and understand: the criterion of belonging to a given political party. Of course, you only reward your colleagues in law and justice. For these Lubuskie municipalities, the funds were, for other municipalities, ruled for many years by efficient local leaders, the managers did not find this money. Prime Minister! It's time to stop. Please resign as President of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u436	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u437	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 20. I serve in the Polish parliament, but for the first time I go to the stand in the mode of parliamentary statements. The reason is really important. The local investment fund was intended to help all municipalities in Poland to accelerate their development, to help overcome the crisis, and to prove in practice how the Law and Justice implement the policy of division, division into better and worse sort. In this case, this division concerns municipalities. What is the situation in Łódź voivodship? The municipality of Łódź receives zero grants, the municipality of Drzewica - zero grants, the municipality of Mniszków - zero grants, the municipality of Opoczno - zero grants, the municipality of Poświętne - zero grants, the municipality of Sławno - zero grants, the municipality of Żarnów - zero grants, the municipality of Dobryszyce - zero grants, the municipality of Gidle - zero grants, the municipality of Kamiensk - zero grants, the municipality of Radomsko - zero grants, the municipality of Ciegradziz - zero grants, the municipality of Regnów - zero grants, the municipality of Sadkowice - zero grants, the municipality of Bolimów - zero grants, the municipality of Kowiesy - zero grants, the municipality of Godzianów - zero grants, the municipality of Maków - zero grants, the municipality of Nowy Kawoczyn - zero grants, the municipality of Dręki Slaczecki - zero grants, the municipality of Innowłodz - zero grants, the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the municipality of the They promised, they didn't. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u438	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u439	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There was supposed to be a government fund for local investment, and there is a government fund for PiS activists and by PiS activists organized for public money. Besides, in the context of a serious debate on the budget, it clearly shows how PiS is trying to build the PiS state for our public money. Not long ago Prime Minister Morawiecki said that this investment fund would be money for the most pressing problems. So as we read, how many of these municipalities and cities didn't get, it turns out that the Prime Minister doesn't know at all what the burning problems are and what the public money should go for. Minister Grabarczyk mentioned part of the Łódź voivodship a moment ago, and I will allow myself to list the second part of all these cities and districts which did not receive any zloty according to this division. I will start with the Kutnowski district: Bedlno, Krosniewice, Kutno, Nowe Ostrowy, Oporów, Żychlina, Lanięta, all these cities - zero. District of Grace: Buczek, Judyjowice, Grace - zero. Scandal! The PiS doesn't rule there either, which is why it's zero. Lęczycki County: Daszyna, Grabów, Friday and Łęczyca - zero. Hunting county: Bielawy, Ch¶no, Domaniewice, Kiernosia - zero. Scandal! Pabianów County: Ksawerów, Pabianice - zero. Spider County: Dzioszyna, Rzóśnia - zero. Disgraceful! Poddębicki County: Dalików, Pęczew, Poddębice, Uniejów, Wartkowice and Zadzim - zero. They gave them. Powiat Wieluński: the office of the municipalities of Biała, Konopnica, Skomlin and Wieluń - zero. Scandal! And by the way, not long ago, councillors even gave a decoration to President Duda in Wieluń. They didn't either because the PiS isn't in charge. Powiat wieruszowski: Bolesławiec, Galewice and Wieruszów - zero. Powiat zduńskowolski: commune, town of Szadek, commune of Zapolice, Zduńska Wola - zero. Zgierz, Aleksandrów Łódzki, Główno, Ozorków, Parzeczew and Stryków - equal to zero. I district of Sieradzki: Błaszki, Goszczanów, town Warta and Wróblew - zero. That's why we applied to the Supreme Board of Control. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u440	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition. Who's gonna talk now? Mr Marek Sowa and then Mr Aleksander Mishalski is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u441	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It must be said directly: Mateusz Morawiecki is the face of the biggest political fraud in the history of 30 years of Polish self-government. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. In Małopolska he granted such grants. western Małopolska: the district of Chrzanowski - 0 zł, Chrzanów - zero, Libya - zero, Trzebinia - zero, Babice - zero, the district of Thoughtnicki - zero. Municipalities: Lubień - zero, Raciechowice - zero, Siegraw - zero, Wiśniowa - zero. Oświęcim County - zero, Oświęcim City - zero, Oświęcim Municipality - zero, Chełmek - zero, Kęty - zero, Osiek - zero, Polanka Wielka - zero, Przeciszów - zero. District of Suskie: Sucha Beskidzka - zero, Maków Podhalański - zero, Budzów - zero, Stryszawa - zero, Zembrzyce - zero. Wadowicki County: Andrychów - zero, Brzeźnica - zero, Tomice - zero, Wierz - zero. Podhale i Sądecczyn: gorlicki district - zero, town of Gorlice - zero. Municipalities: Biacz - zero, Gorlice - zero, Lipinki - zero, Moszczecica - zero, Jękowa - zero. Limanów County, town of Limanowa - zero, Yodłownik - zero, Apartment house - zero. Mszana Dolna commune - zero, Bear - zero. New Sądecki County: Muszyna - zero, Chełmiec - zero, Grodek nad Dunajec - zero, Grybów - zero, Korzenna - zero, Elbow - zero, Podegrodzie - zero. Powiat Nowy Targ: town Nowy Targ - zero, powiat Nowytarski - zero. Municipalities: Rabka-Zdrój - zero, rural municipality Nowy Targ - zero, Raba Wyżna - zero. Tatra County: White Dunajec - zero, Bukowina Tatrzańska - zero, Kościelisko - zero. Ladies and gentlemen! Mateusz Morawiecki in Małopolska handed 92 zero cheques (Bingle) Government Local Investment Fund. Małopolska will thank him for this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u442	Thank you, sir. And here you are, Mr Aleksander Mishalski. You are preparing Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u443	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A government that doesn't exist! You've made a program without criteria, without merology, without evaluation of conclusions, the program itself. You tried to fool the locals, but you really fooled the locals - often the locals who voted for you in Małopolska very often. Where the PiS applied for, the PiS rules, 89 applications awarded for 89 applications submitted. Where the others rule, 18 over 112, which is 15%. . And in order not to be literal: the city of Bochnia - zero, Rzezawa - zero, Żegocina - zero, Drwinia - zero, the municipality of Bochnia- zero, Iwkowa - zero, Czchów - zero, the town of Brzesko - zero, Radgoszcz - zero, Bolesław - zero, Dąbrowa Tarnowska - zero, Radowska - zero, Radziomice - zero, Koniusza, Pałnicza, Koszyce, everything in the district Proszowicki - zero, Tarków - zero, Gromnik - zero, Zielonki - zero, Lisa Góra - zero, Skrzyszów, Radłów - zero, Biskupice, Gdów, Wieliczka, Niepołomice - zero, Michałowice - zero, Zabierów - zero, Zieloniki - zero, Ivanowice, Sułoszów - zero, Vawrzeczów - zero, Włochów - zero, Wielkowno - zero, Skołka - zero, Świętki, Śróki, Świątki, Świątki, Świątki. The inhabitants of Małopolska will not forget this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u444	Please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition. You are preparing Mrs Katarzyna Bakerska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u445	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'll admit, I don't recall the time when the last PiS won the election in Warsaw. And PiS doesn't like Warsaw, doesn't like Warsaw, doesn't like Warsaw, doesn't like President Trzaskowski. He doesn't like, it also happens, the inhabitants of Mazowsze, because he also decided to skip them in the Government Local Investment Fund. And so: the municipality of Leoncin got zero, the municipality of Nasielsk - zero, the municipality of Pomiechówek - zero, the municipality of Zakroczym - zero, Nowy Dwór Mazowiecki - zero. Powiat ostręłecki - zero, commune Baranowo - zero, commune Goworowo - zero, commune Kadzidło - zero, commune Lelis - zero, commune Rzekuń - zero, Ostrołęka - zero, commune Andrzejewo - zero, commune Brok - zero, Małkinia Górna - zero, Szulbor Wielkie - also zero, Wąsewo - zero, Celestynów - zero, Karczew - zero, Kołbiel - zero, Osieck - zero, Sobien-Jeziory - zero. Powiat Piaseczyński - zero, gmina Góra Kalwaria - zero, Konstancin-Jeziorna - zero, Lesznowola - zero, gmina Piaseczno - zero, Prażmów - zero, Płock - zero. The whole powiat plocki - zero, commune Bielsk - zero, commune Bodzanów - zero, commune Łąck - zero, commune Nowy Duninów - zero, commune Radzanowo - zero, commune Słubice - zero, commune Słupno - zero, commune Staroźreby - zero, Baboszewo - zero, Dzierznia - zero, Joniec - also zero, commune Naruszewo, commune Nowe Miasto - zero, commune Płońsk - zero, Raśni - zero, Suchocin - zero, commune Załuski - zero, Płońsk - zero. Powiat pruszkowski - zero, gmina Brwinów - zero, Michałowice, Nadarzyn, Piastów, Pruszków - zero. Powiat przasnyski - zero, commune Chorzzele - zero, Czernice Borowe - also zero, Unicorn - zero, Krasne - zero, Przasnysz - zero, Borkowice - zero, Gielniów - zero, Klwów - zero, Monsters - zero, Plowdown - zero, Rusinów - I will surprise you - zero, Wieniawa - zero. Powiat pultuski, gminy Obryte - zero, gminy Pokrzywnica - zero, gminy Zatory - zero, gminy Jastrzębia - zero, gminy Kowala - zero, gminy Pionki - zero, gminy Przytyk - zero and Skaryszew - zero. But it's not over, my friends will continue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u446	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Bakerska. You are preparing Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u447	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mrs Gajewska said, I will continue to calculate those municipalities in Mazowsze that did not receive funds from the local investment fund. This is the case: the municipality of Białobrzegi, the municipality of Promna, the municipality of Radzanów, the district of Ciechanowski, Ciechanów, and despite seven conclusions, they got zero. Gmina Glinojeck, gmina Gołymin-Ośrodek, gmina Ojrzeń, gmina Opinogóra Górna, gmina Sonsk. Garwolin, Paris, Pilawa, Sobolew, Wilga, Łaskarzew. Gostyniński County, Pacin commune, Sanniki commune, Szczawin Kościelny commune. Powiat grodziski, commune of Baranów, commune of Grodzisk Mazowiecki, commune of Jaktorów, Milanówek, Podkowa Lesna. Grójecki County, Chynów commune, Goszczyn commune, Grójec, Jasiec, Mogielnica, Warka. Głowaczów, Gniewoszów, gmina Grabów nad Pilica, gmina Magnuszew, gmina Sciechów. Jabłonna gminy, Niepotę, Serock, Legionowo. Chotcza commune, Lipsko commune, Sienna. Łosice, Olszanka, Platerów, Sarnaki, Stara Kornica commune. Powiat makowski, gmina Czerwonka, gmina Karniewo, gmina Płoniawy-Bramura, gmina Różan, Rzewnie, Szelków. Dębe Wielkie, gmina Jakubów, Kałuszyn, Minsk Mazowiecki, Mrozy, Sienna. The city of Minsk Mazowiecki received zero funds despite the submission of nine applications, ladies and gentlemen. This is really outrageous. Next: Radzanów commune, Strzegowo, Szrensk, Szydłowo, Wisniewo, Mława, Czosnów commune. All the municipalities I mentioned are the municipalities in Mazowsze that got zero resources. And this is an absolute scandal, because, as one prime minister said: this money to those citizens who live there, it just belonged to them, and they got zero. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u448	Thank you, Member. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. Mr Mirosław Suchoń is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u449	Like, ladies and gentlemen, PiS thinks about public money:. This is a schizophrenia from opposition local governments who regularly criticize the government, spit on it and then reach out to the government for money. Ladies and gentlemen, the PiS are very mistaken about public money with their own money. They do not share the money they have earned, but the money that taxpayers living in Poland have paid to the state budget. In Mazowsze, as Ola Gajewska mentioned, money did not get very many municipalities and districts, among others. commune Wierzbica - 0 zł, Pionki - 0 zł, Siedlce - 0 zł, commune Domanice - 0 zł, commune Korczew - 0 zł, commune Kotuń - 0 zł, commune Mokobody - 0 zł, commune Przesmyki - 0 zł, commune Siedlce - 0 zł, commune Suchożebry - 0 zł, commune Wólni - 0 zł, commune Mochowo - 0 zł, commune Rościszewo - 0 zł, commune Zawid - 0 zł, Sierpc - 0 zł, commune Nowa Sucha - 0 zł, Sochaczew - 0 zł, commune Jablonna Lacka - 0 zł, commune Kosów Lacki - 0 zł, commune Sokołów Podlaski - 0 zł, commune Sterdynów - 0 złwód - 0 zł Ladies and gentlemen, five of Poland's largest cities: Warsaw - 1790 thousand. inhabitants, Cracow - 780 thousand. residents, Łódź - 677 thousand. residents, Wrocław - 643 thousand. residents, Poznan - 534 thousand. residents, in total almost 4.5 million inhabitants. All these cities got round 0 zł. 4.5 million inhabitants of Poland were not included at all [[♪ The bell ♪]] when granting money from a local investment fund. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u450	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You are preparing Mrs Joann Frydrych.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u451	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Poles who listen to us today! The local investment fund was supposed to be such a solidarity vehicle. A solidarity vehicle, which during this difficult time of epidemics will allow the economies of our small, larger homelands to mitigate the effects of the epidemic and rebuild our strength. And this was supposed to apply to the whole of Poland. Unfortunately, PiS decided to divide Poles into better and worse ones, those who would receive support, and those who would not receive this support. And he used only a political criterion, no substantive criteria. Unfortunately also in Podbeskidzie, Silesia Cieszyński, Żywiecczyn and Pszczyńska Land in many places it was zero. In all voivodships there are disadvantaged municipalities throughout Poland. in the Opolskie Voivodship, which is absolutely crucial: Opole, the largest city of voivodship, the city of voivodship - 0 zł, powiat Brzeski, Brzeg - zero, Olszanka - zero, Skarbimierz - zero, powiat Głubczycki, Głubczyce - zero, Kietr - zero, Branice - zero, powiat kędzierzyńsko-kozielski, Kędzierzyn-Koźle - zero, Cisek - zero, Poland Cerkiewicz - zero, Renska Wieś - zero, Kluczborski, Kluczbork - zero, Krapkowice - zero, Gogolin - zero, Zdziesznoów - zero, Śródowice - zło, Walce - zero, Świerczów in the gmina - zero, powiat nyski, Raduchołazy, Korfantów - zło, Korfantów - zło, Nieców - zło, Niece - zło, Nielki, Obki - zło, Obki - zielki, Obki - zielki - złomi, Obki - zielki, Obki - zielki - zielki, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi - zmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Ośmi, Oświerki - zmi, Oś, Ośmi, Oś, Ośmi, Ośmi, Oś, Ośmi, Ośmi, Oś, Ośmi, Oś, Oś, Oś, Ośmie, Oś, Oś, Ośmi, Oś, Ośmi, Oś, Ośmi, Oś, Ośmi, Oś, Ośmi, Oś, Oś, Oś, Oś, Oś, Oś, Oś, All Poland needs to hear today that zero is a real government program for Poles and Poles. These municipalities, these people who have been victimized, must hear today how unfair it is to divide these funds and how far away from the solidarity that should guide the government today is the PiS government. Constantly not in view of such an outrageous distribution of funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u452	Thank you, sir. Now Mrs Joanna Frydrych, the Civic Coalition. Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, also the Civic Coalition, is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u453	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Public spending should be transparent, with clear criteria and clear rules. The granting of these measures on a political basis is a clear discrimination against residents of cities and municipalities who have been deprived of these measures. Why? Because their glazeers aren't connected to the PiS. The Government Local Investment Fund is a zero+ programme for independent local governments and its beneficiaries in the Podkarpackie voivodship are: Ustrzyki Dolne - zero, Domaradz - zero, Haczów - zero, Nostrzec - zero, Brzostek - zero, Dębica - zero, Pilzno - zero, Czarna - zero, Żyraków - zero, Jarosław - zero, Pawłosiów - zero... Zero. Scandal! ... Roźwienica - zero, Krosno - zero, Korczyna - zero, Cmolas - zero, Ralowów - zero, Dukla - zero, Iwonicz-Zdrój - zero, Krosno - zero, Korczyna - zero, Wojaszówka - zero, Cisna - zero, Cieszanów - zero, Oleszyce - zero, Grodzisko Dolne - zero, Końcut - zero, Radomył Wielki - zero, Borowa - zero, Czermin - zero, Gawłuszowice - zero, Padew Narodowa - zero, Wadowice Upper - zero, Nisko - zero, Przemyśl - zero, Bircza - zero, Przeworsk - zero, Przeworsk - zero, Kanczuga - zero, Sieniawa - zero, Jawornik Polski - zero, Padoworszyce - zero, Ropczyce - zero, Różów - zero, Różów - zero, Błażowa - zero, Płażów - zero, Przeżów - zero, Próżów - zero, Próżów - zero, Próżów - zero, Próżów - zero, Śróżów - zero, Śróżne - zero, Śróżne - zero, Zróżne - zero, Zero, Zero, Zielów - zero, Zero, Zielów - zero, Zielów - zero, Zero, Zero, Zero, Zielów, Zielów - zero, Zielów - zero, Zielów, Zielów - zło, Ziel, Zielów - ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Zielce - zło, Zielo, Zielce - zło, Zielski - zło, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Zielo, Ziel, Ziel, Zielo, Ziel, Zielo, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Ziel, Thus PiS divides local governments, divides Poles and Poles. But Polish proverbs are very wise and timeless. Let me quote one thing: a jug of water wears until the ear breaks. The absolute power of the PiS will soon be over. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u454	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Tyszkiewicz, the Civic Coalition. Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u455	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's especially painful to make promises that aren't true. The Podlaskie Voivodeship, Eastern Poland, was to be a land of honey and milk under the rule of PiS, and flowed by a great political lie, a great political deception. We took the trouble and counted how many people in Podlasie were deceived by the PiS government and deprived of money for their investment. For $1100,000. inhabitants of this small region 670 thousand. persons, 670 thousand. people were deprived of money from the local investment programme. It was to be a local investment programme, and is a party investment programme, whose only determinant, the only criterion is the PiS card in the pocket of local activists. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as cities, communities, powiats, gminas of the Podlaskie Voivodship are concerned, which have been deprived of resources, the list is really appalling. Let's start with the largest cities, cities on the rights of the county, of which there are three in the region: Białystok - zero, Suwałki - zero. As regards the powiats which requested funds for investments: powiat augustowski - zero, powiat bielski - zero, powiat hajnowski - zero, powiat moniecki - zero, powiat sejneński - zero, powiat siemiatycki - zero, powiat zambrowski - zero. Let's move on to municipalities in individual counties. In the Augustów district: the city of Augustów - zero, the city of Leipzig - zero. In the powiat Białystok: Choroszcz - zero, Michałowo - zero, Suraż - zero, Zabłudów - zero, gmina Dobrzyniewo Duże - zero, gmina Gródek - zero, gmina Juchnowiec Kościelny - zero, gmina Zawady - zero. In the powiat bielski: Bielsk Podlaski - zero, Brańsk - zero, gmina Bielsk Podlaski - zero, gmina Rudka - zero, gmina Wyszki - zero. In the powiat Grajewski: Rajgrod - zero, Ratchczyn - zero. In Hajnów County: Hajnówka - zero, Kleszwód - zero, gmina Czyżew - zero, gmina Dubicze Cerkiewne - zero, gmina Narew - zero, gmina Narewka - also zero. In the rajono savivaldybė of Kolnen: the gmina of Mały Płock - zero, the gmina of Turośl - zero. In the powiat Łomżyński: gmina Łomża - zero, gmina Miastkowo - zero, gmina Piątnica - zero, gmina Zbóbna - zero. In the powiat moniecki: Knyszyn - zero, Mońki - zero, gmina Jasionówka - zero, gmina Krypno - zero zł for investments. In the Sejne district: Sejny - zero, Puńsk commune, lived by the Lithuanian minority and how (Dzwonek) - also zero. In the siemiatycki district: Siemiatycze - zero, Siemiatycze - zero, Siemiatycze - zero, Mielnik - zero, Milejczyce - zero, Nurzec-Stacja - zero. In the sokólski district: Suchowola - zero, famous for the entire Polish municipality of Korycin, where the korzecin cheese is produced - also zero, because PiS does not rule there. In the powiat suwałski: gmina Filipów - zero, gmina Rutka-Tartak - zero, gmina Szypliszki - zero. In the powiat wysokomazowiecki: gmina Klukowo - zero, gmina Kulesze Kościelne - also zero. In the powiat zambrowski: the town of Zambrów - zero, the municipality Rutki - zero. This is the picture of local investments offered by PiS for inhabitants of Podlaskie Voivodship. We'll never forget it, and we'll settle it hard in the Podlasie. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u456	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska. Mr Wojciech Król, the Civic Coalition, is preparing. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u457	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Parliamentarians of the Civic Coalition already in August this year. warns that the criteria for granting funds from the local investment fund are unclear. In this case, we directed, among others. Interpellation. And what did Deputy Minister Robert Nowicki write back? He replied that there was no written justification for refusing to make available the payment of funds, because the preparation of the reply would constitute a significant organisational effort. Scandal! Intellectual. As we look at the government's involvement in public propaganda, I ask or, in principle, appeal: get to work. Get to work, and don't say you don't have time to justify your conclusions. That's one thing. Secondly, I wanted to point out that this isn't some kind of virtual money and virtual investment. This is not taking something fictional somewhere in space, but these are specific investments, these are concrete measures, in specific municipalities, cities and powiats. For example, in the municipality of Potęgowo money will not be for the construction of nursery and thermomodernization of primary school. This is the money received from the municipality Powerfully by the current government. Moreover, a government representative, Piotr Müller, publicly lied. I call on the Minister, your spokesperson, to explain himself - he had time to do propaganda - that he said that the commune of Powerfully received money. Minister, you lied, you lied to the people of Pomerania and Power. There will be no modernisation of the street in Malbork. Newman's. There will be no weapons of land for new investments. There will be no cycle path in the New Court, no road renovation. There will be no reconstruction of the street in Puck. Nowy Świat, the puck culture center, the construction of a new marina or the extension of sewers. In the city of Gdansk there will be no money for a tour of the Lowland Gate, a collisionless passage to Orunia or a flood shaft. In Słupsk there will be no revitalization of the Old Market Square, construction of municipal apartments. Long to mention, but I will mention the municipalities and districts - apart from those I have already mentioned - which will not receive any funds: Kołczygłowa, Lipnica, Tuchomie, powiat bytowski, Brusy, Chojnice, Konarzyny, powiat chojnicki, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Czarne, gminy Cłuchów, Debrzno, Koczała, powiat człuchowski, Pruszcz Gdański, Przywidz, Trąbki Wielkie, Gdynia, Kartuzy, Sulęczyno, powiat karuski, Dziemiany, Karsin, Stara Kiszewa, gminy Kwidzyn, town and municipality Prabuty, Ryjewo, powiat kwidzyński, Lębork, Malbork, Miłoradz, Nowy Staw, powiat malborski, Krynica Morska, Nowy Dwór Gdański, Hel, Jastarnia, Potęgowo, Słupsk, Sopot, Bobowo, powiat Starogardzki, Stary Targ, Sztum, Pelplin, powiat tczewski, Reda, Rumia. For all this, the inhabitants of the municipalities, cities, districts mentioned by me will settle you soon. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u458	Thank you very much. Mr King, Civic Coalition. You are preparing Mrs Mirosław Nykiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u459	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm adding another list of the disgraces of Mateusz Morawiecki. Let me remind you that from this place Beata Szydło said that enough for everyone is enough not to steal. We'll see if it's enough for everyone. Voivodship Śląskie: Chorzów - 0 zł, Sosnowiec - 0 zł, powiat Będziński - 0 zł, powiat Bieruńsko-Lędziński - 0 zł, Będzin - 0 zł, Czeladź - 0 zł, Siewierz - 0 zł, Sławków - 0 zł, Psary - 0 zł. We continue to check: Imielin - 0 zł, Gieraltowice - 0 zł, Plichowice - 0 zł, Pyskowice - 0 zł, Rudziniec - 0 zł, Boron - 0 zł, Ciasna - 0 zł, Herby - 0 zł, Koszęcin, Lublin, Pawonków, Wozniki - 0 zł, Mouse - 0 zł, Poraj - 0 zł, Pilica, Poręba - 0 zł, Włodowice and Żarnowiec - 0 zł. I will add that Chorzów, Imielin and the district of Bieruńsko-Lędziński - the city, commune and district - is the electoral district of Mateusz Morawiecki. He took off from this district to the Sejm and betrayed his constituents. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Scandal!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u460	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition, is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u461	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Silesia is a huge agglomeration of almost 5 million inhabitants. The distribution of money from the Government Local Investment Fund didn't really hurt the presidents, mayors or wojites, but the residents. They will not have better educational facilities, roads, railway connections, better kindergartens, health care facilities. I'm not talking about culture anymore. This party division is a disgrace and a piss suit. In fact, you have divided the money of Poles and Poles according to party respect. Now I'm going to replace these generously gifted towns. Bielsko-Biała - zero, Czechowice-Dziedzice - zero, Żywiec - zero, Cieszyn - zero, Jaworze - zero, Szczyrk - zero, Goczałkowice-Zdrój - zero, Kobier - zero, Miedźna - zero, Pawłowice - zero, Dębowiec - zero, Ustroń - zero, Wisła - zero, Zebrzdzidowice - zero, Lipowa - zero, Łakawica - zero, Milówka - zero, Blindownia - zero, Dąbrowa Zielona - zero, Kłomnica Poland - zero, Kłomnice - zero, Koniecpol - zero, Konopiska - zero, Mstów - zero, Mykanów - zero, Przerzew - zero, Starcza - zero, Kłobuck - zero, Kłopka - zero, Lipie - zero, Lipie - zero, Miedźno - zero, Wielka - zero, Wielka - zero, Wielka. Do you know what the outcome should be for PiS in the upcoming elections in these towns? Zero. [[Applause]] Some Members chant: Zero, zero, zero. Less than zero.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u462	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u463	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We're used to the fact that when the PiS says something is national, it means that the nation pays and the government gives away. The government has become fashionable lately. We have the Government Local Investment Fund, which is neither a fund nor a government fund. So the government is giving away something that's not even his. Although the Prime Minister is responsible for these measures, he is taking them from the COVID-19 counter-fund, and this fund is still managed by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which draws money partly from the state budget, from the issuance of bonds and from European and other foreign funds. So neither the government nor the Prime Minister. You give away not yours, and some you give nothing. Firstly, no clear criteria, and this is the most important error, nor any procedure. This is contrary to the sacred principle of public finances, where disposition must be adequate, transparent and equal for all. I am convinced that these decisions are a violation of the discipline of public finances. This money was not properly distributed also in the Silesian Voivodeship, as already mentioned. That money, for example. he did not get any proposals for about 70 million PLN, including one-name hospital in Raciborz, district raciborski, and in this district raciborski did not get money such as: my family Krzanowice, which had projects for sewage treatment, for flood protection, did not get Pietrowice Wielkie. He didn't get the district of więsławski, who isn't PiS' favorite either, and in the district of więsławski, similarly not loved Marklowice. From the Rybnicki district Jezikowice, as well as Rudnik, which had among others. projects for the provision of disabled facilities to assist them. Prime Minister! I've asked you and your interpellation, and I've asked you to make public information available. Once you have the courage to respond in this manner to all the municipalities, the counties that got zero, why and justify how it should be done, in accordance with the principles of public finances, with respect for your money, because it is the money of Poles, which, as already mentioned, they deserve. But first of all, they have to settle and explain this mode. This isn't your farm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And not your money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u464	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, the Civic Coalition. Mr Jacek Protas is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u465	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! Well, it would seem that the Świętokrzyskie voivodship would be more graciously treated by the Law and Justice, but the reality has become more brutal, because about half of the municipalities of Świętokrzyskie voivodship have simply not received support from the local investment fund. Ladies and gentlemen! In turn, the district of Buski, or municipalities: Busko-Zdrój, Nowy Korczyn, Pacanów, Solec-Zdrój, Stopnica - zero. District of Jedrzejów: Imielno, Małogoszcz, Nagłowice, Oksa, Magistrates, Sobków - zero. Kazimierz County: Czarnocin, Kazimierz Wielka, Chciny - zero. Kielce County: Chciny, Daleszyce, Kielce, Masłów, Miedźiana Góra, Sitkówka, Nowiny, Strawczyn, Zagnańsk, Łagów, Łopuszno - zero. Powiat konecki: Fałków, Gowarczów, Radoszyce, Ruda Maleniecka, Smyków, Stąporków, Słupia - zero. Opatowski County: Abbots, Sadów, Tarłów, Wojciechowice - zero. Ostrowice County: Bożechów, Kunów, Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, Vasniów - zero. Powiat Pińczowski: Kiesie, Michałów, Złota - zero. Sandomierz County: Koprzywnica, Images, Samborc, Sandomierz, Wilczyce - zero. The county of Skarżysko is even my family district, and it is not surprising: the municipality of Bliżyn, Skarżysko-Kamienna, Total - zero. Powiat staszowski: Osiek, Połaniec, Łubnice - zero. Powiat włoszczowski: Krasocin, Moskorzew, Secemin - zero. A total of 55 municipalities - zero. The inhabitants of these municipalities were deprived of equal opportunities, and unfortunately, these funds will not go to the municipalities. It is a pity, because it turns out that the largest centres, even presidential cities such as Kielce, Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski or Skarżysko-Kamienna, have been completely omitted. Unfortunately, as the hand shows, what were the criteria for the distribution of these funds. How embarrassing it is that one of the messengers of Law and Justice, the then voivode, actually speaks directly about the fact that it was her who contributed to the fact that these funds were sent to this community rather than another. So this is a belonging, a criterion is only political, party or territorial. This isn't right. Therefore, I hope that the Law and Justice will come to their senses and take into account that it has harmed the inhabitants of more than half of the Świętokrzyskie voivodship, and that money will come someday. So far, we're half-zero. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u466	Thank you very much, Member. Bravo. Please, Mr Jacek Protas. Mrs Margaret Janyska is preparing herself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki noisyly announced that thanks to the Government Local Investment Fund the division would end. Poland for Poland A and Poland B, but he forgot to add that the division will begin Poland for Poland PiS and all the rest, for a better and worse sort. Let's see what it looks like comparing voivodships. The Podkarpackie region - PLN 452 million from this fund, Warmia and Mazury - PLN 138 million. Similar surface area, similar population, similar level of development. How does it look to you? In the Podkarpackie voivodship 212 PLN per person, in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship 97 PLN per person. In our region, are we the worse kind? In this way 0 zł from the fund received presidential cities: Olsztyn, Elbląg, Elk, powiats: lidzbarski, giżycki, iławski, mrągowski, Olsztyński, nastowski - 0 zł, gmina: Frombork, Płoskinia, Braniewo, Wilczęta, Płośnica, Pasłęk, Gronowo Elbląskie, Milejewo, Rychliki - 0 zł, Prostki, Stare Juchy, Elk, Gołdap, Banie Mazurskie, Giżycko, Ryn, Kruklanki, Miłki and Wydminy - 0 zł, Iława, Kisielice, Susz, Reszel, Orneta, Lubomino, Mikołajki - 0 zł, Sorkwy, Janowiec Kościelny, Janowo, Kozłowo, Nowe, Nowe Miszczy, Wiskudziec - 0 zł, Olecko, Rozny, Rozny, Jonko, Jonkołno, Kołno, Kołno, Kołno, Kołno, Kołno, Śłogłodzań, 0 z Śłodzań, 0 zł, 0 zł, Śłodów, Śłodów, Śłodza, Śl, Śl, 0 zł, 0 zł, Śródętrz, Ś, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, Zł, Zł, Ś, Łołatrzętrzętrzętrz, 0 zł, 0 zł, Ło, Śl, Ło, Ło, Ło, Ło, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Śl, Ś 60 warmińsko-mazurskie local governments received grants of PLN 0 from the Prime Minister. This is the policy of sustainable development, this is the policy of equalising opportunities between regions, powiats and municipalities in the implementation of the PiS. Empty words and lies of the Prime Minister, who has already been convicted many times by the court for lying. For all this, the inhabitants of Warmia-Mazury Voivodeship will bill you and your formation, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u468	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition. Mr Adam Szłapka is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u469	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The local investment fund is financed de facto by all Poles. This is not a fund of voters, PiS officers, and this is unfortunately how he was treated, also in Wielkopolska. Half of the local authorities in Wielkopolska did not receive a zloty for investments. And so the county of the Commonwealth - zero: Walking, Budzyn, Szamocin - zero, Czarnków, Lubasz, Krosz, Trzcianka - zero. Gniezno County: Gniezno, Kiszkowo, Mieleszyn, Niechanowo, Czerniejewo, Kłecko, Trzemeszno, Witkowo - zero, Borek Wielkopolski, Pogorzela - zero, Granowo, Kamienieec, Grodzisk Wielkopolski, Rakoniewice, Wielicho - zero, Jaraczewo, Kotlin, Jarocin, Żerków - zero. Powiat kaliszyn: Blizanów, Ceków-Kolonia, Koźminek, Lisków, Mycielin, Stawiszyn - zero, Bralin, Chodowi, Kościelec, Osiek Mały, Przeczyc - zero. Grodziec, Kramsk, Krzymów, Rzgów, Skulsk, Stare Miasto, Rychwal, Ślesin - zero. The county of intersects - zero: the intersects, the orphans - zero. Powiat Nowotomyski - zero: Lwówek, Nowy Tomyśl, Opalenica, Zbąszyń - zero. Obornicki County - zero: Ryczywoł, Oborniki - zero, Ostrów Wielkopolski, Przygodnice - zero. Powiat Ostrzeszowski - zero: Grabów nad Prosna, Ostrzeszów - zero, Piła - zero, Białośnie, Kaczory, Ujście, Wyrzyn, Wysoka - zero, Okrzycko, Duszniki - zero, Ostrorog, Szamotuły, Wronki - zero, Zanieśl, Środa Wielkopolska - zero. County of Śrem: Dolsk, Duke of Wielkopolska, Śrem - zero, Budzew, Kawęczyn, Przykona, Tuliszków - zero. Wągrowiecki County - zero: Wągrowiec, Lime, Gołańcz, Jkoki - zero. Powiat Wolsztyńskiego - zero: Przemów, Siedlec, Wolsztyn - zero. Powiat wrzesiński - zero: Kołaczkowo, Miłosław, Nekla - zero, Zakrzewo Krajenka, Okonek - zero. And of course, ladies and gentlemen, the capital city of Wielkopolska: Poznań - also zero. It's important to remember. It's not just the Prime Minister and the government. It's important to remember. they are also all members of the PiS and the entire United Right, because they did not follow these towns for a purely political reason: because they do not win there. The voters can't forget about it in the next election. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u470	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. Mr. Arthur Łącki is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u471	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the features that describe countries that have a problem with democracy, the rule of law, institutions, strong institutions is that the border between the ruling party and the state is blocked. And that is exactly what Poland describes under the rule of law and justice. For your cameras, for your hungover, the state is a party, and the party is a country. You do not need power to help citizens to solve the problems of citizens, just to deal with your own interests and to strengthen that power, to destroy institutions and to extract state resources just to pursue party interests. And that's exactly what happened to the local investment fund. You use money that is taxpayers' money, citizens' money just to support your own and punish those who dare not vote for Law and Justice. This is an outrage, this is the destruction of the state, and for that you will all be responsible. And here are the municipalities in Wielkopolska, which you have punished for not being the municipalities of PiS-owski: Poznań - zero, Puszczykowo - zero, Czerwonak - zero, Komorniki - zero, Rokietnica - zero, Tarnowo Podgórne - zero, Buk - zero, Kórnik - zero, Mosina - zero, Murowa Goślina - zero, Stęszew - zero, Czempin - zero, Krzywiń - zero can be replaced and replaced. You are destroying Poland and ordering citizens to participate in normal democratic elections. This is what you will be responsible for as a result of a democratic process, and for all the bad decisions you will simply be accounted for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u472	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left, is preparing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u473	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Divide et impera is probably the only rule that the Deputy Prime Minister for Security Jarosław Kaczyński remembered from his law studies. He started sharing us when he yelled that we were standing where the Zoom was and they were somewhere else. But how did he know that when he slept alone till noon? From month to month, from year to year, the PiS draws this deeper dividing lines. He divides them into those who are responsible for their crimes, and those who do not need to be forgiven, for they have sinned, for who has no temptation. They divide them into those who are hit by gas in their eyes, with a head and a ticket to pay, and those who unpunished women in strikes, break their hands and beat them with batons. He divides entrepreneurs into those who get some help from COVID's holes, on those who had a misfortune to have another REGON, so they get nothing. And now they've started dividing local governments into those that get aid from the government fund just because they voted, as the president wanted, and those who won't get it because they voted badly. In Zachodniopomorskie ukarono: Świnoujście - 0 zł, Barwice - 0 zł, Będzino - 0 zł, Białogard - 0 zł, Biały Bór - 0 zł, Bierzwinek - 0 zł, Biesiekierz - 0 zł, Bolszewice - 0 zł, Borne Sulinowo - 0 zł, Brzeźno - 0 zł, Cedynia, Chociwel, Choszczno, Czaplinek, Człoski, Czbrzewo, Człoski - 0 zł, Darłowo, Dobrzany, Dolico, Drawno, Dziwnów - 0 zł, Golczewice, Grzynowski - 0 zł, Insko - 0 zł, Świł, Świł, Świłodrzów, Nowoł, Połno, Kobylanka, Kołbrzeg, Przecin - 0 zł, Lipany - 0 zł, Zł, Zł, Szmiński - 0 zł, Zł, Zł, Nałowno, 0 zł, 0 zł, Słowowo, 0 złów, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, Nał, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, Śł, Śł, Śł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, Pł, Pł, Śł, 0 zł, 0 zł, Pł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, Pł, 0 zł, Pł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, 0 zł, Pł You divide local governments into those who get funding from our money, do something, build roads, maybe build daycare, and those who have to raise money from school, from all over school, from health, to do anything. We're not authorized to do that. We will explain who and according to what criteria he has divided [[♪ The bell ♪]] This money from the local investment fund, we have our parliamentary audit in the NAP, and tomorrow we will submit a request to the Supreme Audit Chamber for a comprehensive audit. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u474	Thank you very much, sir. Now Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. Mr Waldemar Andzel is preparing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u475	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Today is the 98th anniversary of the murder of President Gabriel Narutowicz. On 16 December 1922, the first President of the Republic was shot by a right-wing fanatic a few days after taking office. This was the result of the campaign against Narutowicz by a nationalist right. The assassination of President Narutowicz was preceded by a chauvinist pursuit. The media and politicians associated with the enddecia, with the National Democracy, accused him of being an atheist, using anti-Semitic rhetoric, calling openly to get rid of him. Today we all see that the policy based on xenophobia and hatred, which led to his death, has returned. Today we are surrounded by a similar atmosphere, we hear the same rhetoric and words about enemies of Poland, about a foreign agent, and young people who are inducted by irresponsible politicians wear sweatshirts with the inscription: Death to enemies of their homeland and call for hanging political opponents on trees. As the language of hatred becomes more tamed, it can sooner or later lead to violence and bloodshed. Two years ago, President Paweł Adamowicz was the victim of this modern campaign of hatred. This is the end of crossing the boundaries of public debate and ruthless sentiment on political opponents, denying them patriotism, Polishness and even humanity. Finally, it is necessary to learn lessons from the death of the first President of free Poland, as well as from the death of President Gdansk, before it is too late. No more hate victims. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Member. Thanks.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u476	Please, Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u477	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to say a few words about the government's local investment fund. I can say that this fund was distributed fairly by Mr. Mateusz Morawiecki's government, as far as I know. This year, because it was the second edition, it was the first edition, in which almost all the municipalities in Poland received funds, large municipalities, such as. Warsaw, they received almost PLN 100 million, but there are many local governments that have received such large funds. For example, I will give the city of Sosnowiec, which also received over PLN 30 million in the first edition of the Government Local Investment Fund this year. So that it is not as it sounds from the total opposition that the funds were badly divided. The funds were as fair as possible divided by the government of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, by the government of Law and Justice. And half of Poland didn't get it. We celebrate the 50th anniversary of the December protests on the Coast bloody suppressed by the communist authorities of the Civic Militia and the military. Today, the Sejm adopted an appropriate resolution on the events there. It all started on 14 December with the yard employees. Lenin in Gdansk, who started the protest. The direct cause of the protests was a significant increase in food and fuel prices. In fact, 50 years ago, however, the end of Gomulak's power was coming. Poles were earning less and more and more. Shipyards set off under the building of the Provincial Committee of PZPR, where street fighting took place and 330 people were detained. Tanks went out on the streets, burned down the building of the PZPR Provincial Committee, and the authorities started shooting protesters. Then strikes began in Gdynia. The members of the strike committee were brutally beaten. The tense situation led to a decision to close the yard. Nevertheless, Deputy Prime Minister Kociołek, later known as the executioner of the Tricity, called on the workers to come to work in a TV talk. Those who carried out the Prime Minister's orders were shot with machine guns, among others. Zbyszek Godlewski, a model of the title hero of Ballada about Janek Wiśniewski. Blood pacification brought 20 deaths, many hundreds were injured, 1,000 were arrested. Hello their memory!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-16-sejm-23-2.u478	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 23rd session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 24th session of the Sejm was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. Thank you, everyone. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 20 min 41]]
