ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u1	Please take your seats. Resume session. Dear Senators, before we proceed, I would like to inform you about the work of the Senate today, and we have agreed in advance in the Senior Convention. In a moment we will proceed with the examination of the ninth paragraph: the second reading of the draft resolution expressing solidarity with the Australian people. The vote on this resolution will take place immediately after consideration of this point. After the ninth paragraph, we will continue to consider the first paragraph: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. An hour's interruption will then be announced for the committee's meeting on the examination of the legislative proposals submitted to the Act from the first point. After the break there will be a vote on this item. Following the vote, as announced earlier, a proposal to complete the agenda by 2 points will be presented: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy, paragraph 10; the second reading of the draft resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation, paragraph 11. Then, after considering requests for addition, the Senate will proceed with further examination of the points: the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases; point 5; the Act establishing the Polish Science Day Point 7; second reading of the resolution, in short, Upper Silesia; second reading of the draft resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation. After considering the draft resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation, a short interruption will be ordered in the deliberations, after which we will join the voting block. The block will begin with a vote on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. The point concerning the selection of senators for the composition of the National Judicial Council will be considered at the end of the voting block, after a short technical break, when we are done voting on the laws. And that's formal information. I would like to add from myself that the senator's expectations and senators' expectations are that, if possible, we should conclude today by 22.00 at the latest. This. I don't need to remind you. It depends on the discipline of both the senators and the marshals, but I believe that this is possible. We therefore proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution expressing solidarity with the Australian people. Welcome to the meeting of the Australian ambassador in Poland, his Excellency Lloyd Brodrick. [[Applause]] Let me remind you that the project was brought in by a group of senators. The project is included in print No 44 and the report is published in print No 44 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Marcin Bosacki, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u2	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Excellency, Ambassador of the Australian Union! It is a great honour to present a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland expressing solidarity with the Australian people in this huge tragedy. We all know that for months in Australia, unfortunately, there has been one of the biggest fires in history, not only Australia, but also the world. At least 28 people have died in it so far. Thousands of houses and more than 10 million hectares of forest and bush burned down. Millions of people are affected by the disaster. It continues at the moment when we are dealing with the greatest drought and record temperatures in Australia's history. During the deliberations of the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, this draft resolution was discussed for a long time. The result of the vote was the following: 15 senators in favour, 1 senator against, 8 senators abstained. In view of the seriousness of the House and the seriousness of the matter, I will refrain from making the arguments of those opposed to this law... A resolution. Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, If the senators want, of course they can repeat these arguments during the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to read the draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland expressing solidarity with the Australian people. The Senate of the Republic of Poland wishes to express solidarity with the Australian people, who have been fighting the cataclysm of fires for months, one of the biggest in history. In recent months, tens of people have been killed in fires in Australia, thousands of homes and more than 10 million hectares of forest and bush have been burned down. Losses to the fauna and flora of the continent are gigantic, some species of plants and animals are threatened with extinction. The Senate of the Republic of Poland sends his compliments to all those fighting fires and providing shelter and assistance to those who suffered in the fires. We appreciate the efforts of firefighters, police and army and thousands of volunteers, many of whom are Australians of Polish origin and Poles living in Australia. The continuing disaster in Australia once again tragically draws the attention of all mankind to the responsibility for the environment and the climate of our common planet. Increasing droughts are a challenge not only for Australia, but also for Europe, including Poland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland supports the statements of assistance made by the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland to the Government of the Australian Union and individual acts of support of citizens of the Republic of Poland for the victims of this disaster. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the authorised representative of the applicants. Let me remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Marcin Bosacki to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. We are voting on a motion for a resolution expressing solidarity with the Australian people. Who among your senators is in favour of the project? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 87 were in favour, no one was. against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution expressing solidarity with the Australian people. I kindly ask Mr. Ambassador of the Australian Union in Poland, his Excellency, Mr. Lloyd Brodrick, to approach the presidential table. I'd like to give you a resolution. Excellence, please join me here. [[Everybody up.]] [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. Are there any more questions for your ombudsman, Mr. Adam Bodnar? Mr. Senator Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u4	Thank you. Because yesterday... I'll wait for your spokesperson to approach the podium. The Senate meeting was interrupted yesterday at the questioning stage. I don't know if those were the last of the questions, but probably one of the last ones. I'd like to ask your spokesperson something. In the information you gave yesterday, the spokesperson informed... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Maybe I'll wait... ...the High House that the First President of the Supreme Court is going to I'd like it to be clarified, because maybe I missed something. To submit a motion for a resolution by the 3 chambers of the Supreme Court. I would like you to develop this topic a little bit, say what this resolution is about, and do you not think that such a resolution should be adopted e.g. the full composition of the Supreme Court or the General Assembly of Supreme Court Judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u5	I'm asking you to answer me, Mr. Spokesman. But I kindly remind you, senator, that we are asking questions about the bill that we're investigating, and that question is side-by-side. Yes, Mr. Marshal, but when you were forming a report on the bill on which we are proceeding, this thread was raised in the final or one of the final speeches. I'd like to ask you to clarify, because I think this has something to do with this bill. Or maybe with some other thing... You're welcome. And if you don't mind me asking for a little...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u6	Dear Marshal, Dear Senators! I would like to say that it is an honor for me to speak as soon as this important historic resolution has been adopted expressing solidarity with the Australian people. It seems to me that it is very important that, in the face of climate change, the Senate of the Republic of Poland took a position on this issue. As to the answer to the question, I have a feeling that's the question. To the President of the Supreme Court Criminal Chamber, who represented the Supreme Court yesterday. I think he should be the one who should be given priority to commenting on the actions taken by you by the first President of the Supreme Court. In this respect, I have the same information as the State, that is, information provided by the media. As I understand it, the request for a resolution by the 3 Joint Chambers of the Supreme Court is the result of the Supreme Court judgments in the three-party assemblies of 5 December 2019 and 15 January 2020. That's how I understand that your first president has made his own autonomous decision to take care of the three joint chambers of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. The question is Senator Ambrosik. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Komorowski, this is not a matter of the law. The answer is clear. This is a question to the representatives of the Supreme Court. Right now, you're asking Senator Ambrosik a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr Ombudsperson, I will return to the topic of yesterday's discussion, which was not completed, namely the appointment of judges to international tribunals. You pleaded, yesterday you called, the words of the dead. Chairman Stanisław Dąbrowski, judge. In 2008, he reported on the work of the Council for the previous year and said something to him that he thinks that one thing that will have to be solved in the future... And this is the point of calling Polish judges to international tribunals. Taking into account the impact of the caselaw of those tribunals I'm not quoting here anymore. The judge notes that the fact that the National Judicial Council protects the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, and has no influence whatsoever on the appointment of judges of international tribunals, places a shadow on the performance of the basic task of the National Judicial Council. The point is whether the current judges who invoke these judgments of the TSUE can actually take these judgments into account in the context of the fact that, in fact, the executive authority appoints the judges of that tribunal. Politicians point to the judges of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and I think we have no doubt about that. Time, Mr. Senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u9	I would point out that this is also a question to the judiciary. You're welcome, Mr. Spokesman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u10	Dear Senator, we spoke yesterday about two international procedures concerning the selection of judges of the European Court of Human Rights and the selection of judges of the Court of Justice of the European Union, and about the fact that procedures which allegedly assume an excessive influence of the executive authority on the appointment of international judges may influence our perception of the role of executive authority. This is about the impact on the appointment of judges at all. This argument was presented by the Government of the Republic of Poland in proceedings before the Court of Justice of the European Union in a case which ended with a judgment of 19 November 2019, the signature of the C-619/18, which, I think, caused our entire debate. In that judgment, the Court of Justice made that clear in paragraphs 119 to 121. In general, I would not like to put forward these arguments because I respect your time. I encourage you to read these points. In principle, the Court points out that procedures are different and that the nature of the appointment is different. For what else is the appointment of an international court, which is the result, one can say, of an agreement between the Member States and this particular role of a panel 255, that is, a panel acting on the basis of Article. 255 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, a panel to verify the competence, the level of independence of judges The Member State's exercise of its obligations under Article is another matter. 19 of the Treaty, i.e. ensuring the right to effective legal protection and fulfilling this basic obligation. This is why the justice system operates in relations with other courts of the Member States. These are I'm gonna say it again. Points 119 to 121 of the judgment of 19 November 2019. That's where the whole argument is. I don't see the need to quote, read the whole thing here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, can I have another one? One quick question. I remind you, Mr. Senator, we need to report for discussion. You will have the opportunity to speak in plenary. Now, a quick question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u12	One brief question to your spokesperson, because maybe your spokesperson will be gone by now, I don't know. I have one question. Yesterday, Mr Ombudsperson, you spoke and informed the House of your negative position on this law and generally the laws reforming the judiciary. I have a question about that. Are you in the light of the article? 16 of the Law on the Ombudsman used his powers and applied to examine the compatibility of that law with the Constitution to the Constitutional Tribunal, as well as to other Reforming Acts? But why?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u13	As far as the current law is concerned, I did not use this option, of course, because I do not have the right to a preventive proposal. The only constitutional authority that has the option is the president. On the other hand, as regards other laws, I have recently had a problem, I would say in general, with the independence of the Constitutional Tribunal. E.g. I therefore try to participate in proceedings before the Senate, where I raise some arguments concerning non-compliance, because I have no guarantee that the application to be submitted to the Constitutional Tribunal will be fully impartial and independent. And the question is...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u14	Out of the way, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Ombudsman, from what you have said at the moment, it appears that you are questioning the constitutional body of the Republic of Poland. You have no legal basis to question him. I think it's unacceptable. The Ombudsman who challenges the Constitutional Tribunal and does not exercise his prerogatives. So you're acting in an irrational and inappropriate way. That's my conclusion. Is it true or not? No, it's a fake. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u16	Excuse me. Mr. Senator, I'm repealing this question because it doesn't concern the issue of the bill at all. Thank you very much. Preemptive censor. Here comes the new one. I'm opening a discussion. Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna ask you one more time. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Mr. Marshal, I asked you a question. Thank you very much, Mr. Spokesman. [[Applause]] Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I'm asking for a vote. I'm asking for a question. Mr. Senator Czerwiński He volunteered, too. Who volunteered? Senator Czerwinski and I have asked questions. Play the recordings. Or we're discussing, Mr. Marshal... You're doing press conferences and you're saying you have to discuss it substantively and thoroughly, and then... Especially since the secretary wasn't there, he wasn't doing his job, and Mr. Marshal may not have noticed. I can confirm those reports were. Quiet, please. I'm opening a discussion. You will have the opportunity to speak in the debate. But the spokesperson has already escaped. He's out. First of all, Mr. Senator, this is not the Sejm, this is the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Don't make me call you into serious behavior. The first one was Marshal Kaminski. I'd like to see a list of speakers, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am convinced that the strong tradition of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the strong tradition of Polish freedom, the strong finally mandate of the majority, the sovereign who stands behind the majority of this House, will defend our republic. This is how today we must define the dispute that has become the subject of our House's deliberations. It is not a legal dispute; it is not even a political dispute, as some would like, is a dispute between the republic and tyranny. Because the feature of the republic is not only a threefold division of power, but also control over power. The opponents of the republic are as old as the republic itself, and always in their actions, wanting to replace the republic with tyranny, avoiding the responsibility of power and avoiding control. 63 years before our era in the Roman Senate, perhaps the most outstanding senator of all time, the Cicero, who discovered the conspiracy of Katylina, the conspiracy against the republic, asked questions to this day sounding through history: "How long, Katylina, will you abuse our patience? How long are you gonna fool us in your madness? To what limits will you boast of your impudence to the ignorant? How much longer will you abuse our patience? How much longer will you boast about your impudence unknown to the ugly? Today millions of citizens of the Republic of Poland, the Brightest Republic, ask representatives of the present power camp. Here we are witnessing a crawling assassination on our republic and the laws that we are investigating today are this crawling assassination on the republic with a strong example. For in almost every action that accompanies the so-called. good change How ridiculous these words sound today This goal is accompanied by fear of truth, fear of control. Whether the matter concerns public media, which today have become a tool for lying, manipulating and defaming, whether it concerns parliamentary procedures, or whether, at last, it concerns a key issue for the freedom of the judicial system, everywhere there, those who today hold power in the Republic of Poland, want to avoid the truth, want to avoid control and want to avoid responsibility. This debate, High Izbo, has been accompanied from the beginning by many false concepts. One of them is the insulting decency of repeating that the European Union is abroad and is a foreign body. I repeat: no, this is our European Union, this is our European Commission and this is our European Parliament. Everyone who did so in 2004 and the overwhelming majority of the leaders of Law and Justice voted in a referendum in favour of the accession treaty, Poland's accession to the European Union, agreed to give part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Poland to the Community authorities. But it's not a foreign power, it's a community body. Thus Poland participated in this kind of paradox of sovereignty, relinquishing certain attributes of sovereignty, while expanding sovereignty. us as states and us as citizens, giving us an influence on the functioning of the bodies of the European Union. If today the majority which is in the Sejm and which has elected a legitimate government is unable to benefit from this sovereign mandate, the influence on the European Union can only blame itself and not anyone abroad. If you cannot defend Polish interests in the European Union, ask yourself why this is happening. I will repeat this because it is worth repeating: the European Union is not a foreign body, it is our community. Today, none of us defending Polish freedom is satisfied that in defence of the interests of Polish citizens, in defence of the interests of Polish freedom, the bodies of the European Union must stand. We'd rather not. And that would not have been the case if you hadn't abused the mandate you were given to rule Poland, which I will repeat, none of us are questioning. And if this mandate which you were given to rule was not abused by you to change the system of the Lightest Republic. And the sovereign did not give his consent, as the majority in this House proves. And that is why I will vote, as overwhelmingly, I hope, most of this House, against these laws. Dear Senators, High Izbo, this debate on the scope of Polish sovereignty is accompanied by a debate taking place behind our eastern border, in which we hear that the President of the Russian Federation, who is otherwise notoriously insulting our homeland, announces changes in the Russian constitution. What are they supposed to strengthen? The sovereignty of Russian law over international agreements. Listen to this ashamed of how similar arguments are used by you. Here and you in the Kremlin. I wouldn't want this great tradition that was once expressed in the saying "must" in Russia and in Poland. As anyone would like, it was now changed so that in Poland it would be like in Russia, because it never, I repeat, never, in our history, brought anything good to Poles. Mr. Marshal, High Senate, the assassination of the freedom of courts, the assassination of judges of the Republic of Poland has been specifically commented on by the Minister of Justice from this stand. He said recently, two days ago, that the State had delegated judges to the National Judicial Council and, at the same time, one of the arguments behind this law is that the judges who protest against this reform are practicing politics. What, then, if not denouncing the intentions of the judges What, then, if not questioning the freedom of the judge, his apoliticality, is the acceptance from the government of a specific political mission in the National Judicial Council, which the Minister of Justice has actually admitted here? Unless you use the argument: this is not about the political mission, this is about the reform of the judicial system. But then, dear Senators, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, the argument that opposing this reform is practicing politics is no longer important. It is not so that those who want to reform You call it reform, and we do not practice politics differently, and those who protest against it practice this policy. This is the logic of tyranny, not the logic of the republic. I will vote for the Republic, against the tyranny, in this very important vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Aleksander Pociej will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to highlight the new quality of the debate that has passed through the Senate on the occasion of the procession of this tenth. If not more, it is the number and possibly the worst revision of the Supreme Court and justice laws at all. Democratic camp, non-governmental organisations such as the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the Batory Foundation, the authorities of European Union law, the Ombudsman, the General Bar Council, the National Council of Legal Counsels, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, judicial organizations and many, many others. Including the OSCE. Including the Venice Commission. They all didn't leave a dry thread on this project. Non-compliance with several articles of the Constitution; conflict with European Union law; conflict with the European Convention on Human Rights; this is highlighted on several occasions Unusual in countries not only of the European Union, but in European countries at all, an attempt to subdue the judicial authority of executive and legislative power... It's just a few of the most important charges. It is not possible here to quote all legal arguments against this amendment which fell. These opinions and statements of invited guests during the 2 days of discussion in the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, in the Legislative Committee and in the Parliamentary Committee on the Defence of the Law, make me proud, because in the collision with the way in which the Seym was tried and in the Senate of the previous term of office, such important political laws show a clear gap in the culture of lawmaking and prove that there are Poles, there are parliamentarians who can conduct the legislative process in a human way, calmly, with dignity and reason. I would just like to quote a few conclusions from the opinions we have received here. From the Supreme Court's opinion: a preamble of all means indicating the objectives to be pursued does not agree to the content of the adopted legal act at all, as de facto in the adopted legal act there is legalisation of obvious violations of law which were previously committed by the legislator, the National Council of the Court of Justice and the President of the Republic of Poland. Based on the opinion of the National Council of Legal Counsels:. Having regard to the comprehensive assessment of the draft law of 12 December 2019 on the amendment of the law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, and in particular taking into account the scale and nature of the infringements of the Polish legal order, revealed in the course of a detailed analysis of the provisions contained in this draft, the National Council of Legal Counsels assesses this draft clearly negative. In the same spirit, the Ombudsman spoke, and in the same spirit is the opinion of Professor Grzeszczak, which we repeatedly referred to during this debate. And what did the authors of this project and the government say? Members of the applicant, as is usually the case with their projects, did not come. None of them stood up to us and tried to defend this terrible project. Is it a shame or not knowing? Or maybe it's not really a parliamentary project. The government in the persons of its vice-ministers and minister has limited itself to denying a clear interpretation of the rules by writing its version of the Constitution, insulting our international obligations and juggling from the context fragments of the laws and systems of other countries, which, moreover, has been very and easily discredited by European experts who attended the Senate meeting of the Parliamentary Defence Team. The government, listening to the arguments, was extremely concerned about this law, operating with semi-truths or simply lying in the face of how this law is to the international order and order of the European Union. Probably the best collision of the deep, multi-layered analysis of all the authorities I was talking about, critics of the contested bill with the embarrassing logic of the government side described in his speech a member of the Association of Judges Let me quote: 'The real pleasure for me as a lawyer, once a scientist, would finally be to present in this House an in-depth legal analysis of the project submitted, and then, after the contention of arguments, to find out or to be convinced. However, the content of the project presented here, and in particular the position of the government representative, presented persistently in the light of the criticisms cited by the legal authorities and institutions, gives me a well-known passage that to speak to someone who does not understand, to try to open the lock with a blade of grass, to cut bread with a branch of basil, to screw a bulb into a bird's nest, to put a disk between two stones. It's futile. And so were these talks: on the one hand, people who knew the complexity of the justice system, on the mutual penetration, on the relationship between national law and international law, who knew our commitments, spoke straight, logically, on the other hand, there were arguments that were not acceptable to this discussion. In fact, if I wanted to make a point on this comparison, on the one hand, and on the other, I could only refer to the cabaret. There is such a wonderful sentence of one of the comics, Mr Wojtek Tremiszewski, who said to his colleague, "You are such a paddling pool of reflection." And what we got from the government is a paddling pool of legal reflection, that's nothing. Mr. Senator, one minute. Of course, not the judges or even the whole system are the most important. Everything we do is for our citizens. And at this point, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Justice what he's done for the past few years for a normal man. I'll say nothing. All procedures are released, people wait longer for justice and it is less sure. After 5 years of power And you're flattered that you're a team that deals with justice for people... This is your fault. The element of what you're doing is not only that you want to own it... but also that you just want to escape responsibility in five wasted years. They're not even wasted because you've led a citizen to be in a much worse place than he was. What are you gonna do? You're gonna turn this into a jury. You want to flip it on those who defend democratic order and our place in Europe. Let me recap: this is not a reform. This isn't the way to meet the citizens. This is not the implementation of our obligations arising from participation in the European Union or in the Council of Europe. This is destruction, the exit from the European legal order, problems for citizens, shame, as well as a threat to the money of Poles, because the last decision of the European Commission... Because we are also forgetting that we are sitting at a time when the European Commission, due to the actions of this government, has done the most powerful work. Thank you very much. And that's the situation after the reforms you've put in place. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u20	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Klich will now speak. I remind you, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have to ask the government and ask the PIS senators what they have done to the Poles so far. And it must be said with an open text: you took the Poles from the Constitutional Tribunal, this is your great achievement, you turned it into a fake which is in the service of the party. Then you took the public television, turned it into a tool of unworthy propaganda. Then you took an independent D.A.'s office, turned it into a tool to protect power, not the citizens. Then you made a landing for the National Judicial Council, converting this authority, which is to guarantee the independence of the judges and the independence of the courts, into a tool that serves to select your judges. Then, under the pretext of reform of the common court, you extended the procedure. The average time of proceedings in Poland during your governments has increased considerably. In most categories, the duration of proceedings was prolonged. Then you tried to take over the Supreme Court. Well, in this case, you didn't make it. But the first term of office of the Supreme Court is about to expire. Now you are intimidating judges and you want to make another jump, you want to take away the right to an independent, independent court and to an objective, impartial trial, which is enshrined in the Polish Constitution. This is another attack on citizens' public rights. This is another constitutional assassination. I could quote 11 articles of the Constitution that you have, through this bill, deliberately and voluntarily violated. 11 articles! But since this is not the first time you violate the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, it is enough just to say it. In this courtroom, the representatives of the Ministry of Justice have said that the bill we are considering today is to control the anarchy. Well, who introduced anarchy in Poland, in the Polish legal system? Who is responsible for the anarchy of Polish law? Government and parliamentarians. The government and parliamentarians of PiS are responsible for the anarchy of Polish law. And how? All you have to do is remind me. It is enough to recall the appointment of judges of doubles, the failure to publish judgments of the Constitutional Court, it is enough to mention the failure to comply with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the judgment of the Supreme Court. These most recent judgments, from November and December last year. This is anarchy of the law. If the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court does not comply with these judgments, if the KRS continues to conduct its proceedings, then the law is anarchised in Poland, then anarchy is introduced. And this bill you want to deepen and legalize this anarchy. That's the intention of this bill, that's what this bill is about. It's not about healing, it's not about controlling chaos. This bill is about further deepening the anarchy. You want to ban the legality of the judges, the courts, and the violation of this ban on the harshest punishments. You want to punish for disciplinary misconduct, which you consider to be, among others. questioning the legality of the appointment of a judge or body of the Republic of Poland. What kind of punishment is that? E.g. transfer of the Judge to another position or surrender of the Judge from office. Therefore, any judge who would dare to examine the legality of the appointment of another judge or body involved in his appointment, the National Court of Justice, must face the most serious consequences. You want to intimidate the judges by law. And that's why we call this law a repressive act. The effect of this amendment And that's what you have to say to yourself with an open text, an open text, without wrapping it around. The aim is to deprive Poles and Poles of the right to an impartial and objective court. It's supposed to be a muzzle on the lips of judges, closing their mouths to judges defending their independence. That's why we call it the muzzle bill. It is intended to be subject to the judicial authority of the final political control and thus return to the worst practices from the times of the Polish People's Republic. It is to be the liquidation of the three divisions of power, which not only Montescius spoke of centuries ago, but also our Pope John Paul II reminded, in one of his encyclicals, as the basis of the social teaching of the Church. Finally, what is extremely disturbing is the opening of the door to Poland's speech from the European Union. Yes, you open a gap, you deliberately open a gap for Poland to be pushed out of the European Union, because, as the Venice Commission rightly writes, what happens to the Polish legal system is the creation of schism, is the creation of schism in a uniform system of European Union law, EU law which, according to the Polish constitution, has priority over national law. By undermining European Union law, you are challenging Poland's place in Europe. Is that what you really want? 'Cause that's definitely not what the Poles want. Poles treat the European Union as their second home, as a place where they want to be. And you want to open this door for Poland's speech from the European Union. And finally, finally, I will say: you really mean that the rulers of power are above the law, not only in this law, but this law is supposed to seal this process, because this law is written not in the interests of Poles, but in the interests of the current rulers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law is an extremely important law and acceptance of it or rejection will significantly affect the fate of Polish and Polish citizens. Law and Justice began a good change in the judiciary in 2015 when it decided to exclude the Constitutional Tribunal from the legal system. That's where it started. And what was applied in the case of the Constitutional Tribunal also applies to the other courts of the Supreme Court, to the universal courts And also to the judges. Now we have a law that, under the motto of fighting anarchy in the judiciary, can lead to the complete collapse of the judicial system, that all judgments of the courts will be questioned, that in the legal trade of the European Union, in which Polish courts and judgments of the Polish courts will function, something unprecedented will happen. In a situation of dispute between Poles and citizens of other countries of the European Union or companies, the principle of recognition of judgments of Polish courts will be able to be examined and questioned at any time. Already, the European arrest warrant, which was automatic, is being examined in terms of legality. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone has already spoken on this bill. The Senate is currently speaking, but yesterday the European Parliament spoke, the Venice Commission said. Previously, judges, serious judges from other countries of the European Union, spoke. The German judge said: it's not like in Germany, which the creators of the bill refer to. The French judge said the same thing: it's not like in France, which the legislators refer to. But you're not listening to this. All legal corporations, organizations or judicial associations, the D.A.'s Association, have expressed themselves negatively. Sejm and senacy experts said that this bill was bad and dangerous. You're deaf to what people in position say, knowing the law. You've been doing what you've been doing since 2015: by ordinary laws, you're changing the constitution, you're changing the constitution. This law, instead of seeking to harmonise the law, to ensure that the judgments of the Polish courts are recognised throughout Europe, leads to a further deepening of the situation that you have created, and now you accuse the judges. The judges are obliged to judge according to law and conscience. You want to change this law so that it's the law... The question is, can you get out of this difficult situation... You want to prevent judges from... Even if you change the law, there will remain a judge's conscience and a judge's independence, which you will not be able to break. The system that you criticize and call communist was created in response to what was happening in the times of communism. This system was created after 1989, and its roots are related to the work of judges and prosecutors belonging to the former Solidarity. When you use the argument that this is a communist system, you say untruthful, deep, untruthful. This offends the judges who fought for the rule of law in the Polish People's Republic and led to the creation of a new system. The judgment of the Court of Justice in Luxembourg states that it is up to the courts and judges to examine whether the composition of the court is properly filled. This is further developed by the December Supreme Court ruling. It indicates exactly what the criteria are in these studies. In response to this you come with a law that tells the judges: you have no right to carry out such analyses and such tests. You're amending the Universal Courts Act, changing the definition of judges. The National Judicial Council falls out of this definition. This is a clear indication of what is going on. It's not the end of change, it's not the end. The Minister of Justice stated that there would be further changes, that he was going to eliminate one of the levels of common courts, appeals or district courts. I understand that it's the so-called. verification of the judges and re-appointed. That's how far you want to go. The Minister of Justice also said: we have won the elections, we have the right to appoint our judges, and if you take over the power, you will have the right to appoint your judges. The judges are neither ours nor yours. If you lead to this state, the fundamental principle of the independence of the judiciary in Poland will be violated. How can the judges be ours or ours? How about theirs? This is destruction and... Mr. Marshal, time is up. This is a statement and a direction that absolutely cannot be accepted. Step by step, you are violating the Treaty Treaty with the European Union, the rule of law in force in the European Union, which we are a member of... You are taking the European Union out of Poland without complying with Community law. You are bringing the European Union out of Poland. That's the way it is right now. The next step will be to get Poland out of the Union. If that's what you want and you're going in that direction, then do a referendum. If the Poles say that we do not want to be in the Union, you will not have to apply EU law. Make a referendum instead of introducing such solutions that hit Poland, but above all on the citizens of Poland, who lose confidence in correct decisions that will not be touched. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Jan Filip Libicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll try briefly... To be honest, I've been a parliamentarians for 15 years, and I just started this fifteenth year, and I sat in the Seym first and then in the Senate, and I want to tell you what those 15 years taught me. Is there a need for reform and a change in the justice system in Poland? Of course, yes. For 15 years, when someone came to me with a court case, 90% Those regrets that were poured out at the time were regrets about the duration of the procedure. Therefore, a reform to speed up proceedings is simply a necessary reform. I'll give you two examples that directly concern me. One example is my father's example, who ran for president of the city of Poznań in 2002. There was a court case between two journalists and my father was summoned as a witness in 2017 to testify to what one gentleman told another in the election campaign. My father didn't remember it very well. One of these gentlemen died, and the case continued. This is the first proof of the length of proceedings. The second proof of the length of proceedings is my case, a small matter, it was a few years ago in court, when between one act of court and the other In a small court, it was exactly a year. I will say this: here are the charges, especially on the part of the Law and Justice, as to what we will be guided by, making a decision and voting on this law. Some say: you will be guided by external opinions, and this is the Venice Commission, and this is the resolution of the European Parliament. These are all very important opinions, but I will be guided above all by something else when I decide in this vote, I will be guided by the opinions of my fellow judges who come to me after years I didn't study law. I didn't study law. And they tell me what their practice is and how they feel about this right that we are discussing here today. And this judge tells me this: I am a member of the Iustitii and when Minister Piebiak, also a member of the Iustitii, became a deputy minister, appeared at the assembly of the members of the Iustitii and presented the draft of the changes in the justice system; we are the draft of the amendment, says this fellow judge of mine. They were enthusiastic. It was a draft of changes that was intended to serve, so to speak, to value those judges downstairs, those judges in the first line, and above all to limit any bureaucratic and administrative obstacles that we have in the justice system. And this colleague says: we took it enthusiastically, but it's been a while, the project has disappeared somewhere, and Minister Piebiak has presented another project, this time a project dealing only with personalities, switching one judge to another, without any changes to speed up proceedings. Example two. He says: we are often accused that there are fewer judges in France and yet the justice system works better, so all this because the judges in Poland are lazy. He says: of course, but the second part of this sentence is not added, that is, that there are 2 or 3 times more referenda in France. He, this judge, says to me: if someone doesn't want to take a policeman's ticket, then the case goes to court and I have to do a certain part of the procedure, the same as in a serious crime, but in France, the problem of whether someone wants to take a ticket or not, whether someone was disturbing the peace in the stairwell or not, is solved by the referee of the court. Then make such a reform so that these referees will be more of a judge, says my colleague. That's not what's going on. So much for substance issues. And now the question, I would say, is more political. I, like Marshal Kaminski, was once a member of the PiS and when I read this bill, I feel like I've read it somewhere before. This document, which I read, is the statute of law and justice. [[Applause]] As we read, what you call the Law on the Correction of Justice, we have the impression that this is a reading of the Statute of Law and Justice. Why is that? This is because this law has a whole bunch of vague wordings, vague wordings about political commitment. It doesn't really describe what this judge's political commitment is or isn't. There are other very vague terms, too. This is the language characteristic of the Statute of Law and Justice. This language in the Statute of Law and Justice has a clear purpose. The point is that with all these vague terms in the Statute, you should finally have the final vote on what is going on in Law and Justice, with the President Jarosław Kaczyński. Exactly the same method you use in the reform of the justice system. The point is that, in fact, in this whole case, whatever would happen in the justice system, at the end, you will have the decisive vote of President Jarosław Kaczyński. To be clear, this method is also transferred to other areas of social and political life, not just to the justice system. And finally, the last two points at the end. The first question is this. I was wondering why after the election. As you say, won by Law and Justice Suddenly, such a law appears. Well, my interpretation is this: Law and Justice thinks that the last elections have lost, Law and Justice thinks that they are weakening, and therefore President Kaczyński considers that it is necessary to make the last effort, throw on the tape, losing strength, but to introduce in Poland this dream model at all costs. And that's why he's doing it, which is why he's doing this last one, and I hope he's making a failed effort to turn justice into his prayer. That's where it comes from. And one last thing. As I hear about the need to eliminate all the judges who were appointed by the Council of State Parties, I answer: yes. How will you settle with Mrs Przyłębska, who was appointed judge in 1987, how will you settle with Commissioner for Agriculture Janusz Wojciechowski, who was appointed judge in the 1970s, how will you settle with Judge Kryże, who closed President Komorowski and was once Vice Minister of Justice with Zbigniew Ziobra, then we will be ready to admit to you that you must remove these communist judicial assets from the judiciary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u26	Thank you very much, senator. Thank you for the perfect fit in the time limit for 10 minutes. This shows that an interesting performance is absolutely possible at this time. Senator Hare, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u27	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The courts must be for the citizen, not the citizen for the courts. Citizens expect the State to organise the work of courts in such a way that they are efficient and fair. The opposition called this law a muzzle bill. This is unpleasant because a muzzle is something that is put on dangerous animals so that they do not harm a human being. This is not a very proper case-making and an unacceptable form of such a law. It is also inappropriate for all judges with hundreds of cases that want judicial reform so that people do not wait years for sentences. It is also inappropriate for judges who, in good faith, participated in the work on judicial laws. Such a term of law and its meaning simply does not belong, especially when it appears in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The independence of courts and the independence of judges is the basis of a democratic state, which is why it is so important to agree at the principle level. They should set out the direction of change. We are convinced that work on the law and reform in the judiciary should continue. Justice is a living organism that makes up people and institutions. As parliamentarians, we are committed to caring for the best functioning of the Polish judiciary, we are obliged to work on changes when we see that something needs to be improved. In this case you can't lock the door and say: I don't like anything, I reject everything. Some laws must be subject to constant adjustments and additions to respond to the challenges of a rapidly changing world to respond to social needs. We want judicial laws to be the foundation on which stable and wise judgments will be issued within a reasonable period of time. This is why the Agreement is working and will work on matters related to judicial reform. We therefore make amendments which take into account not only the principles of the Constitution but also the ratified international agreements both in disciplinary proceedings and in judicial proceedings. In the procedure concerning the obligation for judges to indicate membership of associations, we see the desire to ensure transparency. Our amendments take into account human rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the ratified human rights conventions. They strengthen the guarantees of judicial independence by extending the formation of a judge to two Supreme Court and jury judges in the first instance and to three judges and two jurors in the second. I therefore ask for amendments to the Act. I have tabled amendments, which are grouped in 5 sets, and all of these amendments are 15. I think that they will contribute to some mitigation of the pronunciation of certain provisions, as well as to the favorable group of judges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u28	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll ask Marshal Sewerinski to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u29	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'll start with what we have in common. We have a common conviction that reforms are needed in the justice sector. Probably everyone imagines them in their own way, but it is worth to start with such an optimistic, Community formulation. We, our political formation, our group, the parliamentary club, justify this need for reform as expressed in the law we are talking about, the fact that there are some disturbing processes in the justice sector: questioning the status of a judge; questioning the character of a judicial body which gives the law; questioning the constitutional character of the National Judicial Council, despite a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal, which the Constitutional Tribunal confirms; refusal to act by judges Exemplum: General meetings of courts which did not meet so as not to give an opinion on the candidates for judges; and even refusing to judge on grounds of justification: I will not judge with this judge. It is difficult not to respond to such violations of the rule of law in the justice system. And this law that we are discussing is such a reaction to these very manifestations of a disturbing violation of the rule of law. We hear in the discussion and in the statements of invited guests Yesterday they lasted a long time, some even a very long time After all, it is contrary to European law. And they even tried to convince us here. Some of your senators have done this. European law is the absolute priority before national law. It's obviously a mistake, lawyer-wise. Not a need for great dryness They know it's not. They know that there is no primacy of European law before constitutional law, before our constitution, and they know that the Polish Constitutional Tribunal itself has stated that it is the court of the last word in disputes over whether the Polish law is constitutional or not, and that therefore no European body, even the Court of Justice of the European Union, can challenge the constitutional judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal and the constitutionality of Polish law. It is not that we have a phobia for the European Union. For several years I have been teaching European law and I have been making arguments for membership and against membership for students, even when they have not yet tried to let us into the Union and tell us to keep our mouths shut. It is so that entering the European Union does not mean getting rid of sovereignty, that certain fundamental principles of sovereignty must be preserved, or else we will cease to be a sovereign state. One such fundamental principle is that the Constitutional Tribunal has the last word on constitutionality. If someone were to correct it, it would mean we don't need it. Indeed, those who say that European law has nothing to say about justice in the Member States are wrong. This law contains some wording concerning the justice system. What are the terms? Well, the thing is, we should be in national law enforcement systems... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator! It doesn't matter. I'd like you to listen to me, too, and my friend Senator Comfort. Excuse us. Because maybe I can convince you of something... Yes, sir, Professor. Yes. I accept... What are you talking about? I'll take the line. It was a joke, Mr. Marshal, I think it was acceptable in the Senate. There is talk of ensuring effective legal protection in the field covered by European Union law. No one's questioning that. There's talk of the right to a fair trial. Does anyone question that? Nobody. There's talk of the right to a fair trial. I'm sure no one would want to deny it. And there's talk of judicial independence. Who wouldn't want an independent judge, especially if he's looking into his case? What's the guarantee, ladies and gentlemen? Let's concentrate on that. According to my deep knowledge... I mean, not a very deep, but a deep conviction that the judge is irresistible, that he has immunity and that he has a state of rest when he is retiring, guaranteeing him decent living conditions, that's a guarantee of judicial independence. The rest depends on his conscience and knowledge of the law. And I'm familiar with cases from the communist era, that the judges were free to go, even though we know what that system was like. So what exactly is this about, ladies and gentlemen? It is a political dispute in the sense that when we talk about the system of justice, we are talking about the place, the role of this sector of power, which is the judiciary according to the constitution of our country, we are talking about how this system is to be located, how this system is to be constructed and how it is to function. This is also a political dispute because it is a dispute between the various political visions of this interpretation of the place of the courts in the system, between political parties. This is obviously a political dispute. This is also a political dispute because even judges, not only politicians, express certain political sympathies when they speak in these matters, say they defend their independence, their judicial sovereignty, etc. This is a dispute that we necessarily have to admit, even though quietly, for ourselves, in conscience, there are political sympathies. Yes, the constitution says that judges should be politically inactive, not politically speaking, but they, like every human being, have their political sympathies, and sooner or later they must design, radiate on what they are talking about. It is also about environmental interests. Legal dispute in these matters is actually secondary. You choose legal arguments to defend your political interests. Let's argue our House is a place of political dispute, which we have a vision of justice according to our constitution in our country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue that we are dealing with actually has three aspects: political, legal and, I would call it, EU, but it would be better to say sovereignty. The political aspect is probably the easiest. The opposition, but not here, in the Senate, of course, the opposition towards the government found the subject or the subject itself, let's call it something in which it can show its opinion more or less effectively, show its position with external forces, i.e. not only with its own forces and resources, but also with external means. She found a social group... And here I would like to make it clear that I do not think a group of all judges. Most judges would probably simply like to rule normally, exercise their honorary function on behalf of the Republic of Poland and enjoy satisfaction from it, as well as from others. be aware that their function, their vocation has high social support. But there's also a group of judges called themselves that, so we're going to use that term, it's the most explicit, but it's probably the extraordinary caste, relatively few, but it's loud, every once in a while coming out, yelling, manifesting, well, with the support of the media. And so it is the opposition, on the one hand, using this group, on the other hand favourable media, and on the other hand favourable environments outside, European environments, and on the other hand... This is inefficient, so far it seems inefficient, please note that it did not make Although the protests were much earlier, not only before the procedure for this law was greater influence on elections. In other words, the majority of society either feels that the causes of this protest or this anti-government action are false, based on false premises, and therefore their consequences will be false, unreal, or simply not interested in it, has other problems, more important for the average Polish citizen. But, as I said, it's pretty simple, the environments that are conducive to themselves are coming forward. Why not use it? Only that public, political use of this process has consequences. I'm not saying that it's an impact on the judge's environment, but it's partly also an impact on the judge's environment. ♪ What's next? ♪ But it has more far-reaching consequences. This is an attempt to destabilize the law, it is unfortunately also an attempt to present Poland outside, e.g. in the European Union, in a negative light. It may not reach those who use these methods yet, but after a while we will see the results. It was a political aspect. As I say... In fact, that's enough about it. There is also a legal aspect. The fact is that this phenomenon... or maybe otherwise: problems that are related to this law, but also to what is happening around this law, are complicated, but these are problems related to the legal language, which are very often incomprehensible to illegals, so they only read headlines in tabloids or articles titles, do not read into individual legal acts, and they are rarely quoted. And so on. Recently, during this discussion, I learned that art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Constitution in Poland does not apply. Why is that? Because the wording is used, that EU law is above Polish law. Someone who uses that phrase, ladies and gentlemen, either lies or doesn't know what he's saying. That's what Professor Sewerinski was talking about. Well, I say it in a more explicit way. Why? That's because art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 The Constitution is the highest law of the Republic of Poland. This was confirmed by the Constitutional Tribunal in 2005 and by the Court of Justice, because such a concept is also used in judgment K 18/14. And that's not something you're discussing. If someone uses the concept of law over law, it says, using a conglomerate, because it is also a constitution, and a law, and a regulation, and international agreements. The Polish Constitution is above all other sources of law, i.e. any other source of Polish law applied in Poland must be compatible with the Polish Constitution. This is due to the text of the Constitution, from the text itself, but also from the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, also from those earlier, more than 15 years ago. If anybody says otherwise, they use the rule of law and say that EU law is above Polish law, it says partly untruth, because it is certainly not over the constitution. That means either he's lying and he's aware of it... And this is where we heard it in this room. So he's either aware of it, but he wants things to be different, which means he's deliberately falsifying reality, or he doesn't understand it. Someone has read somewhere, the person has read the wording "Union law" is above Polish law and this is what he uses. I'm not talking to you here, maybe. Although, as I say, I have heard this phrase in this room before 2 or 3 days, well, before 2 days I refer rather to those who will read the protocol or watch us. Someone who tells you in the eye that EU law is above Polish law is either lying or does not understand that I will say this briefly. Sometimes there's bad will, which means bad will prevails over... I'm talking about legal aspects, of course. So sometimes the wrong will in the presentation of the recipe, the rule of law prevails over the ignorance of the law. Because if I keep hearing that the KRS is being filled in a faulty way... And yet there was a ruling by the Constitutional Court, which said that the National Court of Justice at least in terms of filling judges who are members of the National Court of Justice... that the rule that speaks of this is in line with the Constitution. Well, I guess someone's lying, she doesn't get it again, or she's got something else in mind, but she's using the wrong concepts. Now I would like to refer to the 2, well, actually 3 basic allegations relating to this law, which are on your side. First ground of appeal: this law violates the principle of independence and independence of the courts. I am not an expert, but if that were the case and I had the conviction that this was the case, then I would simply, in this case, either ask the President for a preliminary review of this law before signing the bill, because he has the possibility to pass it to the Constitutional Court before signing it, or I would collect the signatures of 30 senators and I would apply to the Constitutional Tribunal myself. Finally, Mr. Marshal himself can come forward with this proposal. The Senate Marshal has the same right as the Ombudsman who has already fled this room. Then why do they say that this law is incompatible with the Constitution if they do not have such a right and can use other laws to determine or overthrow this fact? What's going on here? [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, it's been ten minutes. How fast this time flies. Let me finish this speech later, next time... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u32	Thank you, Senator. The next speaker is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I would like to concentrate on the procession of this law, because in my deep conviction there is an unprecedented situation, and what happened on the occasion of the procession of this law may be used in the future. What do I mean? As regards the sovereignty of the national parliament and the sovereignty of the national authorities of a Member State of the European Union, these are areas which are covered by European Union law. And when in such areas a government or a country wants to adopt some of its own regulations, it follows the so-called procedure. notifications to the European Commission and the European Commission will then determine whether this is compatible with European Union law or not. As far as the organisation of justice is concerned, this is not covered by these regulations. Therefore, there is absolutely no need for a sovereign parliament I will remind you that the Polish Parliament is two-roomed, so both in the Seym and in the Senate Before the end of the legislative process, i.e. before the signature of the President of the Republic of Poland and the publication of the Act... In the course of this legislative process, external factors intervened in this process. This is, in my opinion, a dangerous situation that violates the constitutional sovereignty of the organs of the legislative authority in the Republic of Poland, creating a precedent for the future. In a moment, it will turn out that when we process e.g. The Energy Solutions Act to some extent, the Energy Commissioner will consider that he can request the Polish Parliament to take into account his comments or reject the Act. This is a situation... I am following this High House because we are at a very important moment. The point is whether we are a serious member of the European Union or whether we are losing the competences at this point which guarantee us the sovereignty of the legislative process. Therefore, the decisions in this area, especially your Marshal Grodzki, are extremely negative. I judge them as harmful for a very simple reason: there has been an internationalisation of the legislative process in the sovereign Polish parliament. And the invitation of the Venice Commission not in an official way, as provided for in the Statute of the Venice Commission, and as it also appears directly from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, creates an even more dangerous situation. What does that lead to? This leads to the fact that, if a Senate majority accepts a motion to reject this law, in the case of many citizens today and in the future, such behaviour will be perceived as the surrender of sovereignty to the Republic of Poland. That's how it's gonna be perceived. And from such consequences You should be aware of that. Of course, the European Union has the right to evaluate Polish legislation. Of course there are procedures for that. But these are procedures carried out after the legislative process ended with the signature of the President and the publication of the law or the law in the relevant journal. So this situation is very dangerous, in my opinion. And then there's the second line. On the one hand, We have heard statements of dialogue, debate and, on the other hand, the marshal manipulated the debate today. He waived my legitimate question, addressed to the Ombudsman, about why, if he criticises solutions for judicial reform, does not exercise his powers and does not submit appropriate proposals to the Constitutional Tribunal. It is the only body capable of assessing compliance with the Polish constitution. Mr. Marshal has revoked my question. The spokesperson stood and I am convinced that he was willing to answer that question, but was not allowed to speak. Mr. Marshal Grodzki evidently felt that this was politically detrimental to the narrative that the opposition is leading in the whole matter. I would like to protest such censorship or manipulation of the discussion, because in my opinion, the Ombudsman's statement... And to her I was referring to my questions, so it was substantively justified at this point and at this point in our debate. Well, by repealing that question, Mr. Marshal would not allow the Ombudsman to comment on my plea. And he is very serious, because I have formulated the argument that if you do so to the Ombudsman, it means that he is improperly executing the Ombudsman's office, improperly from a constitutional point of view and the Ombudsman's law. I feel the same way about not letting my colleagues who had clearly volunteered to ask you a question, and they were not allowed to do so. What does all this mean? On the one hand, we are talking about a debate, a discussion, and on the other, it is only a theatre that is supposed to serve in advance the thesis. Before the Senate considered this, many prominent opposition politicians had already formulated the thesis that the bill was to be rejected. Then why are we sitting here for three days? [[Applause]] It was possible to submit this request and simply accept it, thus proceding it. And this is, as you can see clearly, a political and media spectacle. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u34	Thank you very much, Senator. The next senator to speak in the discussion is Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I get the feeling we're in some kind of Kafkov space. The Constitutional Tribunal, the Constitutional Tribunal in which three judges are placed in the places already occupied, the Constitutional Tribunal whose President has been elected without the provisions in force, is referred to by the Constitutional Tribunal to which persons who in no case fulfil the criteria to be met by a member of the Constitutional Tribunal are referred. [[Applause]] Of course, you can formally rely always on the fact that there is a Court, but people see what it looks like, who is in this Court and under what conditions it is there. But let's skip this case right now. The senator, Professor Seweryński, said at the end: let's support each other. I, Senator, hear these words from you every time the Law and Justice brings to the Sejm a bill that pushes from day to day without any consultation, without any opinions or disregarding those opinions it receives. So these are empty words, Mr. Senator. ...Support. Yes, I'm arguing with you, I'm arguing with you here, but it's too late. There in the Seym, there in the Seym... We're not there. But, Senator, you're in Law and Justice, you should, based on your authority, say no, that's not right. You don't say it, and your friends don't say it either. You passively accept what comes from there, and then you resent that something is done, opinions are gathered, one or another, etc. We have a limited field of action, but we are doing what we can and what notabene, Mr Senator, has not been done in the previous term, also in this House. As for the issue that Senator Czerwiński was talking about: the tribunal, check this, the superiority of the law, of this... Ladies and gentlemen, we can do this for a long time. There is no doubt that the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union are being enforced by the Member States, unless there is no doubt about it. Well, the Court of Justice has given a long answer to our judge's question. Paragraph 140 states: the referring court will have to determine. on the basis of all the circumstances in which the members of the National Courts of Justice have been elected and the manner in which that body fulfils its specific function. If the National Court of Justice gives sufficient guarantees of independence. One thing is... I'm already overlooking what the Constitutional Tribunal is like. One thing is that the Constitutional Tribunal has stated whether Parliament's choice is constitutional or not, and another matter is whether this Court meets the criteria that must be met by all courts in the European Union, i.e. whether it guarantees independence. It is for the national court to determine and the national court to comment on the matter. Okay, what do we think? What do we think about the National Judicial Council, how it was chosen, how it was empowered? I'm overlooking the fact that it's against the constitution. Well, you're gonna say yes, because it doesn't say who chooses and all that. I don't want to develop this thread. But look what happened next, how the candidates were selected for this court. We've got candidacy to sign. I'm told, because no one knows that for sure. 25 judges. Or maybe those 25 judges signed off on all the candidates, i.e. Only 25 judges signed off on all the nominations? So they'd be 25 judges, not 10,000. And I don't think you're gonna mind that, however you choose, those 15 judges in the National Judicial Council should represent all the judges. We don't know, we can't find out how many... Do you not understand that the fact itself makes this National Judicial Council completely unbelievable? Let's move on, 'cause maybe we forgot some things. Minister Ziobro developed here yesterday on the platform and talked about the corporateity of judges, etc., about the need to change this and to throw these guys out of this National Judicial Council. Well, let's see how it went. I'll remind you, because they've probably all forgotten, the famous case, when the officials, as well as the judges, some of them have been sniffing at other judges, those who protested, they've been sniffing secretly, secretly on social media. This dialogue was published, so-called. Screen. This name is now known to Emilia, says: "Tomorrow on Twitter, the names of all supporting candidates. If you have a nice argument about the fact that names will repeat themselves, and some of them are from the Ministry of Justice, I'll be grateful. Mr. Mither's answer is... I don't know if it's one or another. Mr Mitera writes: "They are also judges. I'm from all over Poland. Emilia: But why did the same judge support as many as 5, 6 candidates? Mitera: I give trust to responsible and decent people. Emilia: Ok. That's how I'm gonna try. That's tomorrow's defense. Greetings. To continue with this case, because that's what you have to say, it looked like this. Ms Emilia: From what I was told by people closely associated with the Ministry of Justice, this was done in a rather special way. A list was brought to the ministry, and then someone walked around the offices, mostly those occupied by the judges checked, and showed: oh, sign here. And they signed off on it. This is how Emilia reported, whose correspondence revealed the practice of organized stinging and slandering other judges. I could quote more, but I think that's enough... That's enough, ladies and gentlemen. Those judges, not all of them, because some of them got in some other way... But probably most of this 15, and certainly a significant part, are people pointed out by, to put it mildly, executive authority, specifically by the minister. It's hard to say, either Minister Ziobra or Minister Piebiak. Therefore, the allegation that this body is not independent of the executive authority is entirely justified. And that was the original sin of this so-called sin. reform of the courts you are carrying out. I don't know, I don't know, Mr. Senator Seweryński, Mr. Professor, Mr. Senator Pak, which I don't see here, lawyer... We've worked together for many years, and I have a lot of respect for you, for your knowledge and for your culture. Thank you. Also for my friend Pęk, whom I know, through my father, for a long time. Gentlemen, how is it possible that you with your knowledge, with your culture, could vote for this kind of project, could you still tolerate it today? [[Applause]] And don't be surprised that the National Judicial Council in this part of the court, which I stress. 'Cause I'm not talking about the others. It does not represent the judicial environment, it is not an independent body and its decisions must therefore be challenged. It's just a question of how to fix it. Notabene we have made such a proposal today and I propose that we really think about it together. So much for legal issues. But there's the matter of discipline, the Disciplinary Chamber and all that... It is commonly said that judges simply fear all these disciplinary measures and that they will be applied to them when they apply the law. Here I hear: what are we talking about? It's the judges who decide. No problem at all. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at Minister Ziobra's actions for many years, we will see that this is a man who seems to want to be a judge, I think, I think, that he probably wanted to be a judge since he was a kid, but he just didn't work out. He became the Minister of Justice and the Attorney General, and he's doing everything he can to influence his convictions. There are judges who have been disciplined for placing a temporary arrest, and there are judges who have been disciplined for not imposing a provisional arrest. Finally there is Professor Dudek, I must remind you, a doctor from Krakow, who had a misfortune, unfortunately, that he took care of, took care of the sick father of the Minister and the father died. To this day, these doctors are being prosecuted with constantly changing charges... The D.A.'s bringing in more and more new guns, even though they've already been legally acquitted twice... Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Time's up. I'm almost done. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are observing this type of activity, it is not surprising that all these disciplinary measures with very unclear criteria must raise concerns. And the intimidated judges, this is, ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing that could be. I'm gonna let... Just a moment, Mr. Marshal. I would like to quote some wording from one of the meetings we had, made by one of the people who took part in these meetings. This is a message for citizens and I would like to address them right now. Namely, if we have such intimidated judges, would they want their case to be dealt with by such a judge? E.g. You have a driver's license. Anyone can have a collision with a traveling representative of power. You go to the courthouse, and there's a judge on the other side of the room who has some connection to the current power, or maybe the future, whatever. And your innocence pales from one minute to the next, because the judge wonders, maybe it won't pay off. And: you have to arrest someone or not arrest them. Same here: you're going to a civil courthouse in a copper case, for damages. But the judge can't judge too much compensation for you, because it might be considered a gross violation of the law, and discipline is very easy. Come on. Your daughter will travel with a child abroad, but her ex-husband decides to keep the child. And the Polish sentence will be of no use to you, because those courts will not respect it. You're gonna need an expensive drug refund, and you're gonna argue with the Ministry of Health, and she's gonna refuse you that drug. Do you want to go to a judge who will build the favor of political power on this sentence... Mr. Marshal, I'm very sorry, but you've exceeded your time by three minutes. That's it, that's the last sentence. Answer these questions and do not think that this does not apply to you because life can be cruelly unfair. But then it'll be too late, because the independent courts won't be there anymore. And now they are? And remember, whoever silences the judges doesn't really silence the judges and silences the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u36	Thank you very much, Senator. I remind everyone of the time limit: 10 minutes. I'd like to speak to the marshal, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The day before yesterday, the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro, in his speech, finally betrayed the intention of this authority. I'll use the quote: "This is the democratic mechanism." In the framework of the functioning of democratic mechanisms, any environment may report to the judges for whom it is responsible. So we have reported judges who, in our opinion, were willing to cooperate in the reform of the judiciary. End of quote. High Izbo, this is the understanding of democracy and the three divisions of power by the PiS. So this option, which wins the election, chooses the judicial authority that works with the power. But it's not a philosophy of law, it's a primitive philosophy of force. In fact, in such a system there is no need for judicial authority at all, because the Minister of Justice could accuse, judge, give judgments, like once a king, a dictator. What's the point of three divisions of power, some Montescius? In the PIS country, a different rule applies. The principle of uniformity of the state authority with the primacy of the executive authority. Many of us here and some of society know this system, because it was in the previous system that provided one party with political controllability of the state. The judiciary in the system of uniformity of power was situated according to the executive authorities: the Council of State and the Minister of Justice. Those authorities held superior functions vis-à-vis judges whose substantive activities were under the strict supervision of the central minister of justice and in the courts Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the courts, of course nominated by the Minister of Justice. This system allowed for very easy administration of justice by the party. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister Ziobro also has good news for us. Once again, I quote: "The state, if you win democratic elections, you will be able to choose those judges you will find appropriate representatives of the judicial community." Not at all, Minister. That is not what the democratic rule of law is about. Such a state is about the mutual balance of the authorities, and it is therefore so important that the judicial authority is independent of the legislative and executive powers. This is in the interest of a citizen who should be guaranteed the right to a fair trial before an independent, independent, impartial court. These guarantees are found not only in the Constitution, but also in international agreements ratified by Poland. The democratic rule of law does not function in such a way that the majority in Parliament seizes all other authorities, because then our citizen would be vulnerable to politicians and states. It is for the courts to have stability and independence from any authority in order to protect the citizen effectively. Senator Marek Borowski said in 2015 that the PiS party is preparing us for democracy. It is impossible to disagree with this diagnosis, how prophetic. In order to realize the sick vision of the PiS, once again the state's system is changing cleverly by ordinary laws. In the past, Professor Ewa Łętowska compared the constitution to the chains imposed on herself by the nation in case he was insane. It is a very beautiful and comforting metaphor referring to Odysseus, who thus sailed safely through the reefs. Worse, though, when these chains No one wants to break up by force, but he's out of bounds another way. And this is what we are dealing with in Poland after 2015. German political scientist Ernst Fraenkel wrote his book The Dual State 80 years ago. It describes carefully how to extinguish a democratic rule of law and replace it with a completely different political and legal order. What should I do? First, change the approach to the essence of the law It's not about standards, it's about the current prerogatives of power. Secondly, all constitutional and sometimes statutory limitations of the powers of power thus assumed must be gradually abolished. Thirdly, the measures of any judicial review of the exercise of its prerogatives by the authority should be eliminated. Fourthly, the ruling party should have a decisive role in the exercise of power. Fifthly, the purpose of the law in terms of prerogatives of power should be policy. I wonder very seriously where we are. Each of you can answer this question on your own. But such a question will be asked to us by our citizens when courts in other countries will no longer respect the judgments of Polish courts. Entrepreneurs will come to us who will have a fine, but no one will want to enforce it abroad. There will be mothers or fathers who will remain with custody judgments, and a foreign spouse or ex-husband, a citizen of another Union country, will question them effectively. Then they will ask us what we, the representatives, did, how we took care of their interests. They'll also come if they don't stand a chance in a fight with you, even though they're right on their side. Don't tell the public that this bill is meant to serve the good of justice, because it doesn't serve anyone but the PIS. It will not help to shorten judicial proceedings which continue to extend due to the lack of reform of the procedure and the automation of work in the judicial secretariats, due to the unworthy working conditions of judicial officials, due to the lack of staff in the courts. It will not reduce the costs of legal proceedings that have just increased in certain civil matters. Perhaps in this way, by increasing the court fees, the PiS wants to reduce queues in the courts. Because if a Polish citizen can't afford to make his case in court, then the Minister of Justice can have another success. Shortening waiting times because there will be no customers. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I'm an attorney by profession. For more than a quarter of a century, I worked among people, ordinary people, applying the law, helping them solve legal problems, both simple, easy for a lawyer and complicated ones when they had to look for solutions in court. Based on my experience, I can say one thing: it is not the courts that create problems for the citizen, it is the legislator. The Sejm, the Senate for many years created problems by passing laws that were difficult to understand and apply not only to ordinary citizens, but also to counsel, notary, lawyer and court. That's the root cause. Procedures, formalism and such a formation of the justice system that with everything you need to go to court: with registration of the company, with the entry of a notarial act, with a speeding ticket, with a simple dispute. It is the legislator who neglected to create a human-friendly law and makes the state unfit and the citizen is looking for help in court. It is the legislator who creates complex tax laws that cannot be understood. It's the legislator who hasn't passed the reprivatization bill for years. It's the legislator who doesn't lean on the victims of violence in the family who have to live with the perpetrator. It was the legislator who did not lean on solutions that would help resolve certain disputes outside the court. It's the legislator who's still complicates court procedures, and disgruntled citizens turn... where? Well, where their current power is directed: against the courts. The consequences shall be borne by the courts and the judges. They're collecting your money for the state and the power of the legislator. They are the ones who are responsible for the fact that they were unable to solve quickly the problems that the legislator should have solved long ago. And this bill is merely an excuse to introduce, as Minister Ziobro said, his judges. That is why I will, of course, vote against, and I recommend all this to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u38	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In addition to the legislative and executive powers, judicial authority is one of the pillars of the rule of law. It is not possible to talk about democracy and the balance of the authorities which have been reserved in the Constitution for a reason, when politicians gain such a far-reaching influence on the courts. Let us not be deceived by these declarations that the bill is designed to make things right or better. The experience of previous political decisions by the Minister of Justice, even with regard to the seat of the Presidents of the Courts, clearly points to one objective: the closure of the Judges' mouths and the deprivation of constitutional courts' right to independence. In fact, the PiS politicians are creating mechanisms for themselves that will influence not only a particular judge but also the entire judicial authority. By disrupting the balance between the 3rd authorities, legislative, executive and judicial authorities, they will have an unfettered advantage over everyone, not only the politician, but also the citizen. Let me draw your attention to some of the solutions proposed in this law to justify the words that have so far fallen. Firstly, the bill significantly extends the supervision of the Minister of Justice as a judicial policy while limiting the powers and role of the judicial authorities. An example is the content of the article. 9c, according to which, whenever a provision of the law provides for the consultation of a college or general assembly without a deadline, in the event of a failure to deliver an opinion on the date on which the meeting was convened for its adoption, the opinion shall be deemed to be positive. This provision introduces legal fiction in the form of a presumption of the existence of a resolution. Polish law outside the institution of silence in administrative proceedings does not provide for silent consent as a legal standard, and even more does not involve the silence of certain legal effects. At the same time, the authorities of the judiciary are deprived of the right to comment on even candidates for a judge. The current General Assembly of the Judges of Appeal, the General Assembly of the Judges of the District and the meetings of the Judges of the individual Courts propose to replace the General Assembly of the Judges of the Court of Appeal, the District Court and the General Assembly of the Judges of the District Court. This means that a common self-government body bringing together judges of a given appeal and district is being eliminated, replacing them with assemblies of judges of individual appeals, district or district courts. Secondly, the law limits the powers of the judiciary, increases the powers of politicians and executives in the field of control. Here is an example of the content of the article. 37m, where it is proposed in §2 that the President of the Court of Appeal should be entitled to issue a recommendation to amend the division of the action if an irregularity or irrational nature of the division of the activities determined by the President of the District Court is found. If the President of the District Court does not change the division of the proceedings as recommended, the President of the Appeals Court may request the decision of the National Council of the Court of Justice, whose resolution is to be final. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a simple mechanism of pacification for the President of the District Court in the event that for some reason he disobeys the authority. Such disobedience is the subject of a political body, which is the National Judicial Council, whose decision is to be final. This deprives the disobedient President of the District Court of any right to independent decision-making and the administration of the court as President. The political designer does not care that such solutions are contrary to the Code of Civil Procedure and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which require the court to recognise the appeal, the mandatory examination of whether the judgment was given by the judge. The political designer is not concerned that this is contrary to the constitutionally guaranteed right of every citizen to a fair and public hearing without undue delay, by a competent, independent, impartial, independent court. Thirdly, the contested law aims at convaliding, i.e. sanctioning the existing judicial vocations by the politicised National Judicial Council. The Act introduces an unknown legal definition of a court judge, a Supreme Court judge, an administrative court judge and a military court judge. This definition boils down to one conclusion: the judge will be the person appointed to this position by the President of the Republic of Poland. The projector would therefore like the judge to be the one to receive such a privilege. Sometimes it will be a reward for fidelity, and sometimes it will be the fulfillment of a promise for a favor. This will not be the culmination of the career path for the best, it will not be a summary of many years of work, learning, impeccable character. Fourthly, the draft law is a political response to the ruling of the TSUE, which puts the draft law in opposition to European Union law. The purpose of the draft law is to prevent the referring of decisions of the TSUE and, in particular, the judgment of 19 November 2019. 107 §1 or Art. However, 42a §1 is not only an expression of the desire to block the possibility of referring to a specific judgment of the TSUE, but because of their generality, it causes that any decision of an independent judge based on a Union judgment or EU standard It would be the basis of the disciplinary responsibility of the judge. This leads directly to the question of the primacy of European Union law over the national law of a Member State, which arises from Article. Article 91 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the bill makes the National Judicial Council a political facade which has nothing to do with the role defined by the Constitution, in particular as regards upholding the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the courts. Secondly, the draft law aims to introduce a system to block judicial independence and the independence of courts in situations where judges would pose a threat to solutions put in place by politicians in the area of state law. The bill aims to eliminate judges who would act against the political position of executive authority. Given not only the draft law, but also other political actions, even if the national prosecutor's recommendation that prosecutors respond to all cases of questioning the status of judges of the Supreme Court and of the general courts, it should be said that the law creates a mechanism for the prosecutor to report it to the Disciplinary Chamber in such a situation, which repeals the immunity of the judge, allows criminal charges arising from the proposed disciplinary provisions. The bill aims to eliminate the self-government of judges and the right to freedom of expression. Finally, the project aims to disrupt the principle of three divisions of power in Poland. Following John Paul II, I would like to remind you that the purpose of the principle of division of authorities is among others. the protection of human rights by preventing abuse of power by any of its organs. One element of the principle of separation of authorities and the foundations of the democratic structure of the rule of law is the principle of judicial independence. Its implementation has always been sought in democratic systems. Its deletion was an immanent feature of totalitarian and authoritarian systems. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u40	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that the key point of this debate is the need to respond to the view of the governing camp that we are dealing with a reform for the citizen here. Because it is possible for an independent judiciary to reform for the benefit of the citizen. And indeed the judicial systems in Europe, independent systems differ in their quality. Surely the British can say: we have a better judiciary than many countries in southern Europe. But there is no effective justice in the history of the world, good for the citizen and deprived of independence. It just doesn't exist. It does not exist because the key element is to strike a balance between the position and functioning of the executive authority and the voice of the legal world. All justice systems in Europe are based on this balance, even if there is no judicial council. Even if there is no judicial council in Germany or Denmark, real decisions are an expression of cooperation and balance between the two factors. You've gone a completely different way. A good reform means, above all, sharing trust and sharing competences. There is no systemic reform that reduces trust in a total manner, just as you described it well, Senator Libicki. Those who do not trust anyone are unable to reform, are unable to create new standards, are unable to improve the functioning of the judiciary with a good effect for citizens. You can't do politics alone without trusting anyone. It's a system regulation. And instead of reform, we just have a triple take-up, a take-up that doesn't exist in any European country. This is the property of the Constitutional Court, which has been reassigned with a bad effect on our position in the international arena. Because the Constitutional Tribunal in its contemporary political system and relations with European countries is the only institution that can defend the sovereignty of the national order. If this institution does not exist, there is no national legal order radiation instrument within the European Union. This is also the depropriation of the KRS and the reduction of the judiciary, and in fact its practical liquidation. This triple property doesn't exist anywhere. And that's what extraordinary is. Nor does there exist, Minister, in France, in bad faith, you used these arguments. First of all, the evolution of the judicial council in France began with the very strong position of the President and the Minister of Justice and aimed at the subjective participation of the judicial and prosecutor's corporation. Today it's part of the balance. The judges and prosecutors in France shall freely elect their representatives to the Supreme Court Board. Disciplinary proceedings shall take place before the sections of the Judges and Prosecutors of the General Court of the French Republic, not in a specially selected Chamber with a specific orientation and fear of the Minister of Justice. Finally, the Delict cited concerning infringement of the rules of the French Republic does not in any way concern the examination of the status of judges. The principles of the French Republic are democracy, the social responsibility of the Republic and its indivisibility. A judge who would demand, for example, Brittany's independence is accountable to the disciplinary court because it violates the principle of indivisibility of the republic. It is as if we have introduced a delicacy for violating the integrity of the Republic of Poland or the principles of the rule of law. He has nothing to do with the investigation, the judicial review. You've put in place a paralysing system. Because not only is sociology, but ordinary human experience indicates that when we enter an office where everyone is afraid of the boss and nobody is independent, we know that And you don't have to read Gogola That this office will not work well. He can't work well because something that's paralyzed can't work effectively. It just doesn't exist in sociology and the world of institutions. And that's what you're paying for. Then you're welcome to And I'm one of them. In the light of the above, the Commission considers that there is a need for the Commission to take into account the fact that it is not possible for the Commission to take into account the fact that it is not possible for the Commission to take into account the fact that the measures in question are not compatible with the internal market and that it is necessary to assess the compatibility of the There are no independent institutions in the world that work effectively. That's why it's our job to reduce the damage. I hope the Senate will vote against this bill in order to reduce the damage. Then we will take care of how to reduce the bad functioning of this law, and finally, in a few years' time, we will restore an independent and effective judicial system for citizens. It is only a pity that in the meantime there will be great damage, which will simply be a waste of time, a waste of time from the state's point of view, and from the point of view of the citizen and the right of citizens to court. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Lydia Staron, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a Polish independent senator. I've read all the opinions and speeches. I think we all see the absurdity of a situation where any judge can question anything, may undermine the status of a different judge, but also counsel, lawyers, bailiffs. It would be a paralysis of the justice system or even a paralysis of the state. Is that what this was all about? It's not the cost that matters, it's the people. But lawyers see a miracle cure. The doctors are to be judges, i.e. the law must be rejected, and then it should be the same as before. In all these years, the so-called has not been changed. Justice. There are judges on one side, extremely powerful. Most of them are wonderful people, educated, honest, ethically based on a sense of mission. But there are too many of them, too many of whom are hard to call judges. And that's why we need the so-called. The Disciplinary Chamber. We need responsibility. It's on one side. On the other side there are people and often their harm, suffering, injustice. They're not coming to Warsaw for the march. Mr. Parowicz is not coming here, who died a sick poor man, victimized by a judge. Mr. Zbyszek lost his farm in the Olsztyn courthouse for less than PLN 30,000. Because the buyer taking over his property didn't deposit the money. Less than PLN 30,000 for land, house, economic buildings. The judge who supervised the procedure was Paweł Juszczyszyn. His only responsibility was to see if the money had been paid before the real estate was decided. He didn't do it, even though it's an element of execution. The judge also did not correct his actions, even when he was carrying out a plan of division or responding to complaints by Parowicz. He never even apologized for it. He's never been held accountable. Nor will Mr Chruszel come to Warsaw from Nidzica, who lives in poverty today, despite the fact that the bailiff The criminal who sold his assets for invaluable value was convicted. However, the judge who allowed this entrepreneur's estate to be sold illegally, without auction, free of charge, for pennies, went to rest and received a very good salary. Mr. Viktor has filed multiple complaints. He was unsuccessfully asking for help. What's a prosecutor doing today who's already cut back on the bad guy's bailiff? He still works at the D.A.'s office. His case was dealt with five times by a disciplinary court so that there would be a limitation. What about the bailiff's victim and the court? Mr. Victor is living in extreme poverty today. He lost his health, no money for a lawyer, no strength to fight, no means of life. Nor will the victims of usury and judges, such as Mr Ryszard, come to Warsaw, for which the judge issued a payment order, in which an amount of 9% was ordered with usury interest. per day, i.e. 3300% per year. Even for a child, interest in such a great amount is absurd. You don't even need to reach into the constitution to see it. For a loan in the amount of PLN 500, I repeat: 500 zlotys, Mr.Ryszard has already paid over PLN 40 thousand, and the debt continues to rise and is today about PLN 180 thousand. In this case, too, the judge has no responsibility. He's still in court. Nor will a woman come to Warsaw, whom, as the whole of Poland saw, the judge took 50 PLN by distraction. What's that judge doing? He still thinks of others. Nor can Mrs Tatiana and her husband come to Warsaw, who were taken beautifully located in Warmia and Mazury. The court made a mistake in the judgment. He even wanted to correct the error, but the court of second instance found that only the operative part was important. It's nothing to say that there's something completely different out of justification. According to this sentiment, a roof over his head was taken from this marriage and no one was screaming that there was a constitution. Nor will Mrs Basia from Olsztyn, the mother of seven children, thrown from her property apartment on the pavement in the ninth month of pregnancy come to Warsaw. This woman was perfidiously deceived, and her daughter lived in her apartment. After 2 years she sold them, of course at market price, and has already lived in a new apartment built by this cooperative, in the so-called. Judge's building. What about Mrs. Basia and her children? They had a roof over their heads, an apartment that Mrs. Basia paid for in full. I fought for this family for several years, 16 years. And what's the effect? The court sentenced the accountant, but did he suffer a penalty appropriate to the act? The court graciously gave her a year in suspension and ordered her to repair the damage, i.e. the accountant was to pay Mrs Basi a note of 22 thousand PLN, and that was during the year. And this was a 60-metre apartment in the center of Olsztyn. It was a sentence. Where's the justice? And the constitution? That is not all, because in the same process the court acquitted the president of the cooperative, because there was a so-called. It's a statute of limitations. Further, as the court stated, there was too little value of damage to cooperatives, not 200 thousand PLN, and 194 thousand PLN. However, the market value of the land was not taken into account in the determination of the value of the injury, but only the perpetual use charges. And it was about building the so-called. the judge's building, in which apartments at an underpriced price, among others. The cost of the land, the judges, the prosecutor, the president's family, the accountant. And that's not enough. To this President, the court has decided to settle almost PLN 2 million in compensation and compensation for 8 months in prison, or 7.5 thousand a day. On one side, Mrs. Basia and 22,000 zlotys for the roof over her head, and on the other side, millions. Is it because the judge who worked with another judge, known from the president's phone records with the Olsztyn judges, was adjudicated in court? E.g. Here you are... Marcus, you've been showing all kinds of conversations, so I'm gonna show you what kind of conversations they were. The judge from Olsztyn, in a conversation with the president, says: "Tomorrow it will be settled, everything will be fine." It was a judge who was in the criminal department. She's here today, too. She still works there today. So it's... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u44	Senator, I'm sorry. Time's up. It's 11 minutes. I'll write you down one more time. Okay, so maybe I just had the two minutes everyone had... Okay? And then... I didn't have everyone at my place... Then I'll finish... Nobody's got two minutes. Yes, thank you. Good. Then I'll be done in a minute. [[Applause]] I'm signing you up for the next five minutes. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Just two months ago, here in the Senate's plenary hall, each of us took a vow and said: "I solemnly vow to do my duty to the Nation honestly and conscientiously, to safeguard the sovereignty and interests of the State, to do everything for the welfare of the Homeland and the welfare of citizens, to observe the Constitution and other rights of the Republic of Poland. By prosecuting the Law on Courts, we learn that there is EU law above our law, that when we try to regulate the law concerning courts somehow, suddenly we have to go to street protests, suddenly we have to include everything abroad, as the street itself is not enough, suddenly our 20 MEPs vote against Poland... Ladies and gentlemen, what country do we live in? Therefore, I ask that we vote in favour of this bill so that we can have the courage to look our voters in the eye later, who are counting on it. Senator Lydia Staroń had the opportunity to present, at least in part, human problems that the judge would be treated like any other citizen of Poland, that he would have all rights like any Pole, but he would not be a man above others, he would not be above the law and that whoever would come to this judge, regardless of his profession, would be treated with respect and would be able to count on justice. I wish that none of our constituents would come to us one day and say as much as they did to Zagóba: traitor, traitor, three times traitor. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u46	Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u47	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I was wondering if I could take part in this discussion, and I felt that I had this responsibility and as a parliamentarian, and as a former Minister of Justice, a minister who was often in difficult dialogue with the judicial community, in a dialogue that concerned the need for change in the justice system. Citizens also participated in this dialogue, of course, and organisations representing them. When I dated the judges, I didn't date the judges' elites. As Minister of Justice, I visited dozens of courts in Poland, where I met with private judges, with judges in regional courts where most of the citizens' cases were settled, and I talked to them about the need for change in the justice system. In all these discussions, they emphasized one thing, one essential feature of judicial proceedings: adversariality. Contradicative is a dispute, a dispute between two parties, which an independent judge in an independent court has to settle. It must be settled with full conviction that it is not subject to any external pressure and that it is determined on the basis of stable substantive and procedural law. What is the essence of the changes we are dealing with today, the essence of the changes in judicial laws? Is the essence of this law, which has been presented to us, the problem of chronic court proceedings? Is the essence of this law to express the voice of those people who often come to us as parliamentarians, reach out and talk about their feelings of harm, also in those matters which have been decided by the court? She talked about it in front of me, among others. Senator Lydia Staron. No, the essence of these changes is something else. The changes that we are talking about today are not aimed at making the judge independent, resolving citizens' affairs. The changes that we are discussing today are not intended for a judge to be dependent solely on the law or on his sovereign assessment of the facts, but to be dependent on politicians who will be able to exercise disciplinary responsibility for a particular decision on the matter, for deciding the matters that are contrary to their interests. That is why this law has become a repressive law. Unfortunately, it is in vain to search in this law for improvements in procedures, tools for the actual shortening of court time, the introduction of modern IT or organizational solutions facilitating work in Polish courts or the work of Polish judges. There is no action to strengthen the staff court or reduce court fees that are so important from the point of view of the citizen. Therefore, without delaying his speech, and especially bearing in mind all the arguments already presented here in the Senate in recent days, but also taking into account the opinions of independent experts, legal authorities, national institutions, international institutions, I must express my only legitimate view on this matter: that the law in this form should not be adopted by the Polish Senate. Unfortunately, we are still waiting for projects that, from the point of view of the citizen, will really solve their problems and really improve the work of the justice system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u48	Thank you. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I continue my previous thought here: if we want to speak responsibly about the protection of the independence of judges and the independence of courts, the best way to protect is the constitution. And that's where you start. I do not know whether an attempt to introduce such a state that any judge or any court may undermine the status of any other judge will have a good effect on the independence of the judges, or whether such a continuous state of uncertainty will actually help the independence of the court. The next charge you're making against this bill is a violation of the threefold division of power. I ask you, the state in which every representative of the judicial authority, the judge, may call into question an uncontrolled decision, the President's decision to appoint a judge, is the most striking example of how two segments of the judicial and executive authority can be mixed together in this case. The President's order to appoint a judge is indisputable. Yesterday, in my questions to the Supreme Court President, I tried to prove it. There is no appeal for this decision, because with this provision, the President states that someone is a judge. You can, of course, file with the judge's office, but in very specific cases. Even the President himself can't change his mind, cancel, file a judge. It's obvious. The biggest charge is that which state is formulated here is that the original sin is dependent on the wrongly established KRS. I don't want to get into it at all, because the discussion, as far as the KRS is concerned, has already moved here. Please note, however, what a logical error you are making. Well, you're assuming that if it was an old KRS, it wasn't a relationship, and if it's a new KRS, it's a dependency. It says in the Constitution... Good. What does that mean? Well, that's the mistake, because there's either the dependence of the person who's called, the appointing authority, or there's no dependence. There is no partial independence and partial dependence. There's a simple question: is it or not? Is the person appointed Of course, by the President, but indicated by the National Courts of Justice, is he independent? Illegally... Well, the answer is very simple: you can check it out. Because I'm saying she's independent, and there's nothing to check, or she's dependent, and we're checking it out. There should be some tests when judges are more independent, independent, or when they were, under an old KRS or under a new one. I don't think anybody's done that yet. You're saying nothing about this KRS and dependence. But there are facts, a single fact, which testify to the old KRS, that it was not good that the judge's dependence on the old KRS, appointed by the judicial caste, was. Don't you remember that? And this judge, I'm sorry, the President of the Gdansk court, who was ready to stand up and follow orders from the Prime Minister's firm?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u50	What's next? [[Talking in the O.R.]] About the deadline... What's next? Shh. ... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did... Demagogy! Gentlemen of the Senators! Exactly. Mr. Senator, it's time for you to... Yeah, but thanks... Okay, but please recapitulate. Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a constitutional test of independence. The sovereignty of the Republic of Poland belongs to the nation. Tell me: how did the nation influence the composition of the old KRS? Well, how? Can anyone answer me here? Because it was there that the previous generation of judges chose the next generation of judges. From the beginning of creation. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And now it's still... What's it gonna be like in this case? In this case, at least those who choose the KRS will be called back by the nation. Indirectly... Thank you, Senator. Time's up. And last sentence, really last sentence. The EU aspect. Very extensive Of course we won't abuse Mr. Marshal's patience. Very difficult, but unfortunately very far-reaching. In fact, the point is that the TSUE is trying to take over the competences it doesn't have, and here's the real question about sovereignty, very much, as I said... Thank you, Senator. ...difficulty and extensive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u51	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I would like to address, in principle, one point which was raised here, which I also raised yesterday in questions to the President of the Supreme Court, referring to the possibility of removal... maybe I have said wrong, not the removal, but the possibility of questioning the exercise of judicial authority by individual judges: what is the danger if the formations of the courts begin in some scale to determine that there was an unauthorized judge in the composition of the judicial body? Ladies and gentlemen, whether to challenge such a provision in the Act, Article. 42a, which states that it is unacceptable to determine or assess by a general court or another authority the legality of the appointment of a judge or the resulting power to perform judicial tasks... Is that a bad thing? It closes the possibility of questioning and strengthens the sentences given. If on a mass scale, more or less, there is the right of judges to challenge the possibility of ruling, it will cause us to open the Pandora box. The President, yesterday's question, what would happen if another composition of the Supreme Court or another composition of the General Court questioned his judgments, finally replied that he would have excluded himself from the ruling. But what happens when the next court is questioning this court, which will rule on it and determine that that court was wrong? We're going to create a spiral that can't be stopped in any way. Is that what we're talking about? Or are we talking about stabilizing the law? I would like to remind you that the civil procedure can also be referred to as criminal and administrative, assuming that if an unauthorised person is present in the court, this entitles the proceedings to resume, and that the grounds for nullity of the proceedings are that the formation of the court of judgment was contrary to the law or that the judge was involved in the examination of the case excluded from the law. If we allow such application of the law, such interpretation of the law by the formations of the courts, we will lead to destabilization of the state, destabilization of the legal system, and I think that nobody in this Chamber would want to do that. It is therefore unacceptable for the formation of the court ruling to rule on the compatibility of another formation ruling as to whether the judge was properly appointed by the President. This is contrary to the Constitution, such a practice would violate the Polish constitution. Yes, we're talking about judicial independence here. But what is judicial independence? The Constitution says this: the judge is independent in the exercise of his office and is subject only to constitutions and laws. Country here often And the media, too. You are freely assessing the situation, and the judge is not entitled to such any assessment of the situation. He must judge freely, be free to judge in judgment, and thus judge according to his own conviction, but on the basis of the collected, comprehensively considered material. You are ripping from the context of Mr Ziobra's statements and quoting one issue with stubbornness, and you are not talking about the other from the same speech, how Minister Ziobro referred to the words of the former President of the Constitutional Tribunal, Mr Rzepliński. And today's behavior of the spokesman who questioned the effectiveness - Yeah, you could say that. - Mm-hmm. Another constitutional body, the Constitutional Court? ♪ How fast ♪ You can say, practically running out of the room! To say he's escaped, the state says he hasn't escaped, he's gone. The State would most likely like to create an alternative country. This is not possible, the constitution is uniform, an alternative state in the territory of the Republic cannot be. Therefore, while upholding the rule of law, the ability to rule effectively and to ensure that the legal system is uniform, I believe that the provision of the added article. 42a should and must be included in the Polish legal system, because dangerous practice has emerged in this area. And to conclude, I would like to say that Senator Morawska-Staneck also mentioned in her statement of course that... Well, speaking of this bill, we immediately reach to all... to a number of components, laws, also about court fees. The senator said, among other things, such an example, she talked about the payment of PLN 100 000 for a request for justification, which has not yet been, but at the same time she did not say that this fee is counted against the appeal. It's just such a remark, it's just so selective, any interpretation of not the whole recipe, not the whole situation, just one thread of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u53	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Knocks.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am speaking because, as it were, Senator Marek Borowski called me to this speech, who made such a comment that he does not understand why people like me or my esteemed colleague, Marshal Michał Seweryński, can support such laws. I will try calmly, but I will answer the Marshal very critically why this is happening. For reasons absolutely fundamental, for reasons far deeper than any legal opinion. Because even though I'm a lawyer, fortunately, I'm saying this because I'm a senator right now. I'm not a representative of any law firm. No matter how much I'm a lawyer, I'm first of all elected by the nation. There are 120,000 Poles behind me, there is this part of Poles behind me, which in a very categoric way, very fundamental demands for many, many years a very deep reform of the justice system. As a politician, I am in favour of democracy. Senator Borowski has repeatedly used a term in the Senate in previous years. I don't know if he's the author. If so, it's good, if it's not, I'm sorry. He was talking about the Democrat and he was very opposed to it. I object to the court-brother, judge-brother. This is at this point a fundamental issue, a fundamental legal problem, but above all a political and political one. We see that the powers of the most democratic, best legitimized power, which is the legislative power elected in direct elections, are increasingly taken over by the power at European level, which has no direct democratic mandate, for example the European Commission. And more and more, the judicial authority elected politically. I would remind you that the Court of Justice of the European Union, which grows here as the highest and final authority, is in fact a body elected politically. And now there's a question. Should we blindly look at how our democracy from traditional democracy, based on a threefold division of power, on direct elections, on the control of the nation, on the subordinates of the sovereign, transforms into this democracy and the judiciary? After all, no one has any control over the European institutions legally. The European institutions are acting in an increasingly arbitrary way. Then let's get out of this Europe and there will be peace. No, Mr. Senator. Let us decide what shape this Europe is going to be in, what shape it is going to develop in. Look at the accession treaties and where we were when we entered the European Union. At the time, there was no mention of any European country. The Constitution of the European Union has been rejected. Nobody politically... There isn't now either. ...does not agree that the European Union should be a superstate and that it should furniture the lives of the Member States in all possible aspects and, above all, in those aspects where the constitutions and treaties provide that they are the exclusive property of the Member States. Nobody says that. The judiciary is a matter to regulate the constitutions and laws of the national states, while the case law of the European Union, including the case law of tribunals and courts, goes in such a way as to challenge this fundamental principle. And that's not what he's gonna do. As a lawyer, I do not agree that judicial case law falls within the competence of the legislative authority. This is abuse. I did not agree to such a European Union and to such a democracy and did not date my constituents who stood behind me. And out of respect... And mine were dating. That's why you're saying otherwise. And that's why I'm in charge of the Senate. I'm not asking you to represent my views. I represent my views. I am Polish and I have Polish responsibilities This is the basic ratio legis of my actions as a policy. Ladies and gentlemen, these are, contrary to appearances, very important issues, issues of the future and elementary issues, because concerning the sovereignty of the Polish state. I stress this once again: we are also fighting at this moment about the sovereignty of the Polish state. I'm going to go over the details of these laws. I can't agree to what he's been trying to push for many years both legal practice, individual corporations supported by legal doctrine... Because it's not that, as we have a symposium of law professors here, they are objective and independent, as you often say. They're mostly, if not 100%. They are members of these corporations. I don't know a law professor who wouldn't be a former judge or a current judge, a lawyer or a legal council at the same time. So with this independence and this authority, let's not exaggerate. In a way. they are acting here in their own interests and in their own affairs. Therefore, it cannot be that the judicial authority will bring to the parliaments ready solutions, ready laws, and we will blindly tap them, saying, yes, you are outstanding lawyers, we basically have no room for manoeuvre here. And that's what it looks like sometimes. When I hear these manifestos of Professor Motherczak, Professor Chmaj... Well, they're arrogant, they're disrespectful to the free, sovereign legislative power. He doesn't agree to that either. We shape the law, and the basic principle is that no one can shape the law that applies to it. In the same way, judges should probably best know that they cannot be judges in their own case, that from time to time certain well-defined aspects of the functioning of judicial authority must be under public control, under the control of the nation. And under the control of the nation, they can only be in such a way that they are either under the control of the legislative authority or under the control of the executive authority. When you question the finality and I say so, the uniformity of the President's decision regarding who is the judge and who is not the judge... Well, you don't see that this President's decision is in control. And that's what the Constitution was all about, so that the president finally decides who the judge is and who isn't the judge, because that's his exclusive constitutional prerogative. The judges say, no, we must have the right to decide who is the judge and who is not the judge in the interests of the nation. Well, it's demagogy. Moreover, this is contrary to Polish law. And finally, the last line. Any system, whether it's power, or any organization, corporation, if it was shaped in the way that the judiciary was trying to shape itself, sooner or later it would have spathized and corrupted itself. It can't be that there's an exorbitant part of the state that no one can control. And that's how the Polish judiciary actually works. I've talked about this many times. He chooses himself, he gets promoted himself, he rewards himself, he hardly disciplines himself at all. 'Cause those jury spells saying that disciplinary justice is functioning are, to put it mildly, inaccurate. So we have the right. Once again, I would like to stress that. To shape this branch, this area of power, so that it serves the Polish nation, to reflect the mechanism of balancing the authorities, the penetration of the authorities. And we, as Poland, have the right to exercise our sovereignty, which no one in this sphere has taken from us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Lydia Staron. I remind you, Senator, you now have five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u56	Thank you very much. I'll try quickly... Speaking to another judge: Jarku, can I abuse your courtesy... Lower the microphone, I can't hear you. A. Then I'll ask for a fresh start, so to speak. Are you okay? Again. The President's interview with another judge: Jarku, can I abuse your courtesy, specifically your superior, to the Registry Court... The judge said, "Okay." Another part of the judge's and the president's conversation: Jarku, I want to ask you a few questions, because today's lawsuit came, which is this Staroniowa... and they sued the general again, you know. Yeah, and basically the same documents the court wants, like the D.A.'s office, and it's already set a time limit for the case. And the D.A. wants, wants CBI, what I said. To which the judge: The CBŚ will write literally such a letter, that an exceptional coincidence in bringing civil proceedings is precisely the same documents in the criminal proceedings of the CBŚ and we will submit to the court for the hearing to be held on 7 October. Next, in a conversation with the judge, the president informs of the destruction of documents:. But I had these letters of attendance deleted so that no one would be tormented. And that's it, I don't have it. In another interview, the president informs the judge: Mr. Chief gives his apartment. The application came in today, the application says I'm quitting. I'll give it back on October 1st. And I'll have the keys. And I'll give you the keys. But was this a selfless favor? Because in the following part of the conversation it falls: "Jarku, watch. " And the judge assures us: in 2 months they will not take these documents, those whom they spoke about from the court. And the court won't give it to them at all. You know that. And for example, he talks to the D.A. like this: That's what the D.A. says: "I'm hugging you." Everything's fine. I'm controlling it. Hang in there. The thing I'm going to say is that the interview was read by President Zabłocki, who was yesterday, and he said scandal. So what? These people didn't have any responsibility, some even achieved a career promotion. And these people live in attractive apartments built by cooperatives. The people of these conversations, the ones that are on these recordings, are today heads of the cathedrals at the university, and the criminal, and the civilian. That's what it looks like. So these judges are teachers of law students today, if you would put it in the words of Prof. Matczak, doctors. And this disease is severe, and it seems very contagious. It's called impunity. It is not possible to discuss independence and bring it only to independence from the legislative and executive authority, except for the suspension from other persons and interest groups who actually hold a certain authority with money and influences. Does the novel violate the division of power, the independence of judges issuing judgments against the legislative, executive authority? Neither the legislator nor the executive authority shall interfere with the decisions given to the courts. It can't change, and it doesn't seem to change. At the same time, however, cases of lack of independence in certain judges are to be stigmatized. Senator, one more minute. Good. The presence of such persons in the judicial system is incompatible with the principle of the independence of courts and the independence of judges. Independence, independence always applies to the recognition of a particular case. It means the judge's freedom from external pressure, but it's not the same as impunity. It's not the same as impunity. The absence of any responsibility for the judgments given, and the courts should not be just about judgments, but about justice. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u57	You're welcome, Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u58	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, ladies, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I've been listening for hours... Well, not even for hours, because we're debating this bill for a few days. And to be honest, even a certain hysteria is unraveled in connection with this bill. Even if the name of the muzzle law, the slogans: the end of democracy, the assassination of democracy, the rule of law, the independence of the courts... I am not a lawyer by education, I am an economist, but I have some reflections that I would like to share with you, because I am also in favour of the rule of law, in favour of democracy in Poland. However, I do not share all the critical comments that are formulated on this law. First line. It was not as if a certain intention, a certain intention to bring this law forward. This bill is the result, it is the reaction to what is happening in the justice system. Since you say it's a muzzle bill, I say, ladies and gentlemen, aside from a certain inelegance of this phrase, it's a rescue bill. It is a rescue act in the sense that we are saving the justice system from total chaos and from the total degrengolada that threatens us if we do not adopt this law. The point is, ladies and gentlemen, that the more and more curious judgments of the courts undermine the legality of the judges. Let us remember that the current National Court Council has appointed or promoted about 700 judges in Poland. These judges probably spent a few thousand, if not more, judgments of different kinds, different kinds. If we allow today a situation in which every judge of the district court, district court or appeal court can challenge these judgments, then we have legal chaos on a scale that has not been in Poland since the post-war period. It cannot be so, Dear Members, that today judges of different types of courts will question constitutional rights, which are attributed in the Constitution directly to the President of the Republic of Poland with regard to the appointment of courts. We cannot accept that, on a random basis, on the basis of one sentence of the ruling of the TSUE, we should build a whole legal structure that undermines the KRS, which undermines the Disciplinary Chamber or the Supreme Court's public affairs chamber, because we will have some kind of legal chaos. We cannot agree with the fact that in two to three months we will have a problem with the election of the new President of the Supreme Court, because naturally, so to speak, the term of office of President Gersdorf ends. We cannot accept the fact that some of the judges appointed to the Supreme Court are boycotted, inadmissible. This is all happening today in the justice system, and this law is generally trying to control the chaos that threatens us in the justice system. That's the first line. The second question or second point, the second thought is this. We're talking about independence, independence of judges. I, too, am in favour of the independence and independence of judges. There is no reason today... no situation in which any politician of PiS, Member, Senator, Minister, I do not know who, Prime Minister, President, would order the judges to issue any judgments, would affect those decisions. I wouldn't want to be mean, because we're talking about very important, very important things, but on the other hand, on the part of the state, on the part of these overheard tapes, statements, it was there, how some people feel safe, how the courts can't or won't issue specific judgments, even some politicians of the Civic Platform guaranteed that the courts wouldn't give a ruling, a case wouldn't be dealt with within a certain period of time. There has never been such a case that any judge currently ruling, the current authority, is under any pressure. Believe me. If there was one such case, I think this case would be dealt with by the UN Security Council because you'd have made it public by now. There's no such thing. The independence and independence of judges is guaranteed in the Constitution and it is generally the result of this life sentence, so to speak, the role of a judge. And she, ladies and gentlemen, with us, in the Polish justice system, after these experiences of Peerel, communist courts, is kind of unique. When I hear these statements today from the representatives of the various countries that you have invited the marshals to review this bill... How is independence and independence to be discussed by representatives of the justice system of France, where a judge can be a member of a political party? And that's what you like? Well, in general, Senator Zdrojewska, there is no such thing in Poland and it is very good that there is no such thing. No judge is subject to the party path, or to the Chairman of the Schetyna, or to the President of Jarosław Kaczyński. And in France it is. In France, the appointment of political bodies... On the example of Germany, where there is a very strong political factor during the appointment of judges, also under a certain procedure... Of course, today we can discuss various specific solutions, including in this law. But what do you propose? You are proposing that we completely block disciplinary action against judges. And what happens when we block the possibility of a Disciplinary Chamber ruling, and some judge, it can happen, he'll drive drunk, he'll steal something. I'm not saying... There's gonna be an incident, and we're not gonna be able to react in any way. Yes? A Supreme Court judge, Mr. Laskowski, who says, well, some other chamber will be looking into it... On what legal basis? It will be on the basis that the president will walk between chambers and say: this judge can look at this case, this one can't look at it at all, etc.? Maybe the president will make a one-man decision... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. So let us not exaggerate the fact that we are introducing some solutions that are completely contrary to the solutions that exist in the European Union. I wouldn't want to... As one European politician said, when we are in a different law, the omen of the appointment of judges to the KRS... When some German examples were cited, one German politician said: "But you are allowed less, because in your country this political culture, this political democracy is smaller, and even if we have this political factor... Well, that's a completely different level. Poland is not a second category country in the European Union. I believe that our solutions and our political culture and our legal culture are no worse than what is happening in Germany, and I would not want us to be taught this way. And last note, more political. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, you are pursuing this famous principle of street and abroad. Oh, Jesus. Yes, oh, Jesus! It's very sad. The street element didn't work. People really expect... Mr. Senator, 10 minutes. I'm asking for a second vote at the same time. But it's been ten minutes at this point. Yes. Street and abroad. People do not support this, people do not support what is happening in the justice system, and of course they expect change. And we... Mr. Senator, please, it's been 10 minutes. The second vote after all the others, so that... I want to add it to him right away... No, no. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u59	There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, Senator Marek Komorowski, five minutes, second appearance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u60	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are two things I haven't been able to talk about in the last 10 minutes, so let me tell you about it in the last five minutes. The State refers to the opinion of the Venice Commission. But let's think about it. Yesterday, the Ombudsman asked the question directly, and it was also put in the media, and he said yes... He presented a negative opinion to the Venice Commission. Your first President of the Supreme Court has probably also presented a negative opinion of the Venice Commission. The people with whom the Venice Commission met probably also presented a negative opinion, because, as far as I know, there probably were no other meetings. So what was that opinion supposed to be? I'd be careful... I was wondering: if I were a member of the Venice Commission, I would go to some country for two days and give an opinion, what would I be based on? Maybe in the opinions of the president of the Supreme Court, the spokesperson, the other organs... If negative opinions are presented everywhere, it is hard to imagine that the opinion of the Venice Commission is different. In the judiciary, in the legal world, we have Temida, the personification of justice. He has his eyes covered, in one hand holds the sword, in the other weight with two scales on which he weighs evil and good. I'd expect it. Not only in the judiciary itself, but also in the context of these opinions To consider all arguments, not just looking one way at it. If you look one way at it, there's no reliable opinion. And then there's the second line. Yesterday in the media I heard a fragment, not the whole, by Marshal Grodzki. I think it was before the Senate. Who said to the people gathered that he would defend Western civilization. And it made me happy, it made me happy... Maybe in the course of this mandate, I'll be there. Let's hope not. He was on his way back. But what is Western civilization? That's what he said in front of the media, that we will defend Western civilization. Western civilization is Latin civilization. Yes? Let me just remind you that it is based on Greek philosophy, Roman law and Christian ethics, and Christian ethics according to the Old Testament This is the Decalogue, and according to the New Testament it is the commandment of love and 8 blessings. And I hope that such a Western civilization will be defended by Marshal Grodzki. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u61	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there are only two others on the list: Mr Krzysztof Mróz and Mr Marek Borowski. If any of you would like to speak again, please come forward because we will close the list of speakers soon. You're welcome, Senator Krzysztof Frost. Again, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u62	Continuing, Mrs. Marshal, Dear Colleagues, a thought that may not appeal to everyone here, concerning the street and abroad... People need it today. And they're looking forward to it. supplement of the justice system. And it is a pity that no substantive solutions have been presented so far. From your... Mr. Senator, really, believe that these amendments, new laws We've already made a lot of decisions. I think we will continue to reform the justice system, because that is the social expectation. You know, because this is from the polls and the turnout of all these marches and demonstrations that the people of these reforms are expecting. We need to be involved in the reform of justice at a substantive level, not at the level of the total negation of every proposal and every solution we propose. Second thing, the foreign issue. Ladies and gentlemen, what is it? Did you also mention this to Senator Marek Pęk, the Venice Commission? It's a body completely dead, revived by de facto the only thing today in Poland, which arrives and gives an opinion after a 2-day visit. What's our situation today? We have not yet completed the legislative process, the law has not yet entered into force, and it is already trying to block the law from abroad today. If there is a legislative process in France, do French deputies fly to Brussels and complain about the French government, for the majority, to President Macron, that he wants to prepare certain legal solutions? Believe me, you know. I look here at Senator Ujazdowski, who is an outstanding specialist in French law. There is no one there to complain about their country, and it is still in the course of the ongoing legislative process. Of course, within the framework of the legislation, every law is subject to assessment, also to some extent. European Court. Nomen omen, I don't remember if it was Judge Tuley. I can be wrong here, I'm making a reservation. But it was the Court of Justice of the European Union that asked questions concerning one of the Polish courts, which I think you asked Judge Tuley, that this mass of sending and the questions of the TSUE were questioned by the TSUE, because only in exceptional circumstances can you address the Court of Justice of the European Union. And we have already started such hysteria today that we are actually hanging on these international organisations, which is not in any other country of the European Union. No country, no judges so massively apply for these opinions in every case... Not to mention what the opposition is doing, which runs there and only complains about this Poland everywhere. I would invite you to make a substantive contribution to the reform of justice, to present concrete proposals to improve justice, because that is the social expectation, which confirms the outcome of the law and justice elections, for example, we have been given a mandate for the next four years of government. These changes that we make, among others. in the justice system, were evaluated by the sovereign and Poles said: yes, please continue these reforms. I think that you should be involved in this repair mechanism, not support actions which aim at the complete anarchy of justice in Poland. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u63	Thank you, sir. Senator Marek Borowski for 5 minutes and Mr Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. I'm closing the list of participants in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Well, there's been some recent speeches. We're gonna start with the chaos and the fact that it's a bill that's supposed to contain chaos, and what happens if it doesn't come into force, and so on. I don't know if there's gonna be such terrible chaos. We've already had a case with the asessors in our time, who, in my opinion, were flawed and who also gave sentences. The Polish state was able to cope with this. But I'll give you an example, ladies and gentlemen. Let's just say that the government of some country, its parliament, decides to cut pensions by half. Retired people start protesting, going out on the street. Millions of pensioners block the road, you can't move, people can't get to work, etc. The government brings a law to the parliament that sharpens penalties: everyone who blocks will be in prison for 10 years. And now I ask you, would you vote for this bill? I doubt that very much. To say, let the government solve this problem, not force us to further discipline, tighten the law, punish people, etc. And that's the case. You put us in front of such moral gambling, moral gambling is called When you say, 'cause if you don't, it's gonna be chaos. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, there will be no chaos. Secondly, since you wanted to avoid it, after the judgment of the EU Court of Justice and certainly after the Supreme Court judgment of 5 December, you should immediately announce that you will take corrective action. You didn't do it, and you still don't want to do it, and you want us to vote for this bill because it's gonna be chaos. And you will continue your deformity of the justice system and the judicial system. They weren't there at all. Why a deformity? Here I refer in part to the statements of Senator Staron. Senator Staron is an extremely well-deserved justice activist. Then she's absolutely to be given back. And she's got a lot of cases like this. Yeah, but what was going on with her? A lot of people were talking about it. The five years? What were these reforms supposed to be about? It's longer and it's more expensive. That's what it looks like after 4.5 years of action. Nothing has improved in these matters. So, ladies and gentlemen, you've just gotten ahead of yourselves, you've gotten ahead of yourselves. And I'll tell you who drove you. Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro, who didn't put Law and Justice on a mine for the first time. Shall I remind you of the IPN Act, the Supreme Court, from which you had to partially withdraw? Now there's another one that goes short with the European Union, which goes short with the judges, with all the legal environments. You have to come to your senses. Now for the next case. I don't think your Senator Break was there then, like I was. I told you, and maybe it didn't quite get to him. Then, when I was surprised that such people were mentioned here, among others. Senator Pęka was ready to vote in favour of this law, support it, etc. I meant above all the law on the National Judicial Council. I discussed this bill in detail, told how the members of this KRS were selected. We know that for sure today. And so, since they were chosen this way, it's just embarrassing the whole system. And there's nothing here to claim sovereignty, any foreign interference, etc. Let's look in here, in our nest, what it looked like. Finally, Mr. Senator Pop also... Mr. Senator, one more minute. Okay? ...he has raised matters of sovereignty here for a very long time, the judiciary and the fact that everything needs to be changed. Ladies and gentlemen, after all, what is changing is the exchange of one another, there is nothing else here. The question is, are the worse on the better? As we will look at some members who have gone to the Constitutional Court who have gone to the National Judicial Council, I think on the worse. So let's not talk about reform here, let's talk about personal exchange, while doing it for unknown reasons. The only reason that comes along is because the Minister of Justice just wants to influence all of this. And finally, one last thing. It was raised here, among others. by Senator Czerwiński, but not only how the independence of the judge can be questioned. How? Well, you have to look at his sentences, you have to look at him at all, at what he looks like. No, ladies and gentlemen, after all, it is also who called him, that is, in what manner the institution called him, whether this institution was properly empowered, whether this institution provides guarantees of independence, not just that it is already a judge and is certainly independent internally. And last sentence, to Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. Mr. Senator, you're referring to the Western countries, etc. You're saying no one in France is going to the Venice Commission. Well, it's not going because no one out there is so violently breaking their own constitution... Exactly. ...and does not break European values. Unfortunately, Poland has become such a country. These institutions are therefore reacting. And don't treat them as strangers, because these are our institutions, we're members of them. By the way, it's nobody but PiS activists, the politicians of the European Parliament called a few years ago. that Parliament should intervene in the case of allegedly fraudulent elections, and that the Director of Father Rydzyk did not get the frequency. Thank you... So then the European Union was good, now it's bad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much. Bravo. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski 5 minutes. Two minutes... I'm sure if somebody from the P.I.S. were talking, you'd stop. No, five minutes. Mr. Senator, last time I said six minutes, I was 10. But okay. I ask you to remain calm, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u66	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to appeal to this sensitivity, which, as I understand it, is somehow the participation of colleagues from the United Right, or at least the participation of their parts, namely the centroright sensitivity, because she is older than the Law and Justice, she defined the lives of many of you. Yes? And that is the sensitivity that you respected as a common good and had a very high degree of trust. I'm sure that's what happened in the days of AWS. No one could think of building a political system based on common mistrust. Some of you were involved. I also participated, I was a minister during the Solidarity Election Action. There are Senators of the United Right who performed functions in government bodies regardless of the coalition, and respected the rules that have now been completely destroyed. It's worth remembering. Yes? It is worth remembering that we have participated in such public experiences, which are completely contrary to the current policy. Because she's not a center-right. This is simply an extraordinary policy, the rule of which is universal distrust towards all. And it's all gonna fall apart, and it's gonna fall apart after Jarosław Kaczyński loses power. Because there are no new rules, no new legal culture, no people fighting for a new interpretation of the law. There's a bunch of people who'd go for a ruthless promotion in the time of that power. It's all gonna blow up, we're gonna fix the damage after a few years. It is worth considering that this is something extraordinary also from the point of view of your history. I'd sleep. Wiesława Chrzanowski never heard the words of approval for such a policy, and it was the right-wing man and many colleagues who began their activity in And that is also the issue of state patriotism. That's what I'm talking to the senator. Modern states are organised so that without an independent constitutional tribunal, there is no possibility of protecting and promoting the subjectivity of the national legal order in the European Union. There isn't. We had the Constitutional Tribunal respected in the region, the Court, which manifested the axiological consensus, because in autumn 2015 it issued a judgment protecting the conscience clause. And it was completely destroyed. Why are the Germans and the French in a different situation? Because they have strong, independent constitutional tribunals, which in today's world are an essential element of European dialogue and protection of the subjectivity of the legal order. There will be no protection of the subjectivity of the Polish legal order without an independent Constitutional Court. He won't do it alone, Deputy Minister of Justice... Mr. Senator, one more minute. Consider these arguments. Because there is no doubt, the judiciary was burdened with many weaknesses before 2015, but it is impossible to reform the judiciary to the benefit of its citizens, depriving it of its independence. It's just impossible. Take this into account when making final decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u67	Like I said, the list of speakers is closed. Mr. Senator Marek the crack wanted to correct. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u68	Yeah, I'll be right there. Thank you very much, Marshal. I thought the list of speakers was still open, and I wanted to take the floor using five minutes, so I'm not gonna take... But, Senator Ujazdowski, all I can tell you is that... because you said that an independent constitutional tribunal is a condition... as if the standard of the European Union to be able to talk about the fact that the state is democratic... No, no, in the Polish constitutional tradition. ...Aha, the Polish constitutional tradition. But I will also tell you that in European tradition there are many such countries that do not have a constitutional tribunal at all, and there is absolutely no mention that they are not democratic or fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u69	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that the discussion has been closed, which means... But for the record, Senators Józef Zając, Robert Mamytkow, Jerzy Wcisła, Władysław Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion on the protocol. I would also like to inform you that Senator Józef Zając has submitted proposals of a legislative nature in writing. The discussion is closed. And I can see that a government representative wants to respond to the speeches that have been made. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u70	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not address in detail all the key issues that were raised yesterday, both by Mr Zabłocki, Mr Bodnar and your senators during the discussion, because in the case of many speeches it is possible to get the impression that there was false concern from the speakers. False concern for the citizen. Only, in fact, if we look at the details, we will see that this is not a concern for the citizen, but a concern only and only to maintain the influence of judges on the formation of the judiciary, to maintain the influence of judges on how disciplinary courts are shaped, to maintain everything as it was. In fact, even this complex project that was recently mentioned at the press conference is headed to make it the way it was. And this concern for the citizen, about his affairs during these speeches was not seen in the words of President Zabłocki or Mr Bodnar, only in the words of Senator Lydia Staroń, who presented a few, few of the many cases in which she intervened over the years, cases in which people were simply wronged by how the Polish judiciary worked. And now I'm going to go into more detail on why this is a false concern for the citizen. I would like to remind you of what President Zabłocki said: that this is not about the status of judges, but about the durability of judgments; that the KRS is not correct, and therefore the judgments of the judges appointed by it may be questioned. Let me just remind you: what were those issues that were the basis for asking preliminary questions? Did they involve citizens? They were about a certain category of citizens, yes. The judges. The questions referred for a preliminary ruling by the Court of Justice in November were questions about the Disciplinar Chamber. These weren't questions about alimony cases, about payment, about divorce. These were internal, judicial matters. I will tell you more: in my opinion, some of the judges who directed these questions have even taken the citizens hostage. Because what else would you call a situation in which, for example, on one of the threads of the gang of finger-cutting victims are waiting for a sentence and will wait much longer because one of the judges in this case thought that he was afraid that he would be liable in the Disciplinary Chamber for what he was going to give, so he had to ask questions to the Court of Justice. Where's the citizen's business? And where is the citizen's interest in the actions of Judge Juszczyszyn? Do these pages count? No one's asking that. And for example... Let's move on in this direction. What's really going on? It's about the Disciplinar Chamber and the KRS. And what does the Disciplinary Board do? He takes care of the judges. Does he deal with dispute resolution under EU law? No, he only deals with the disciplinary offences of the judges. There's no EU law, there's no gas pipeline dispute. And we see that these pipelines in the Union are different. But... Mr. President Zabłocki presented here that we have an art. 9 constitutions. Your marshal also spoke about this in the course of the discussion. Of course, we forget about the key article. Article 8 and Article 8 89, where they talk about the sources of law, where the constitution is located at the highest. But for the purposes of such a debate, such a demonstration that there are supposedly dangers, changes in the power of concepts, changes in the hierarchy of concepts. And that is what happened during this debate, which has really brought nothing new into the discussion about this law, which has been going on for several weeks now. The important point is that, it has also been said that, as a result of this law, there will be no more judges, but officials carrying out orders. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for us to be clear about what was the legal status before the bill was filed and what the law regulates: the law regulates only one issue in terms of the functioning of judges, the issue of... Of course, there are more of these issues, but the key one, the basic one, is whether the judge can say that another judge is not a judge. This isn't bringing judges into office. It is the taking away of the judges of the law which they usurp themselves, to decide whether the Constitution governs Poland, democracy rules, or whether the district judge governs it. Let me give a very simple example of the absurdity that this logic leads to, which some today accept as a necessity to apply the judgments of the Court of Justice, to defend democracy, to defend the threefold division of power. Let us imagine the situation that we have a judge who is considering the case and says this: "I do not respect this right because the law passed the Sejm, and the validity of the election has been confirmed by the emergency control chamber. And I'm not gonna rule with that judge at all, 'cause the KRS... And the Supreme Court passed a judgment on the legal basis, but the judge chosen by the Supreme Court took part. They're not judges, they're not president, they're not Sejm, they're not government. And he says that to himself. every district judge in Poland. Well, if it's not anarchy, then what is it? And this bill is not a muzzle bill. This bill saves our country from great chaos, destabilization and anarchy. The state in these speeches is trying to indicate that this law allegedly makes judges dependent on the government or on the executive authority. There is nothing in this law: no new powers that would be conferred on the Minister of Justice. Anyway, about the powers of the Minister of Justice and the contradictions on this subject, which fell during this discussion, I'll tell you later. Another lie: this law prohibits judges from asking preliminary questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union. I sometimes feel like some opposition representatives can be talked like a wall. The bill clearly says... Anyway, that recipe that raised doubts at all. We didn't want it to be interpreted like that, that wasn't the intention of it being changed just so that no one would doubt it. He couldn't even try to lift. It is clear that Poland is bound by EU treaties, no one is questioning that. It is clear that if Poland has delegated competence under the accession treaties to EU bodies in specific areas of law, Poland respects these obligations. The fundamental difference between you and me is that you're trying in the name of your particular interest. Because you can't accept losing in elections, you can't accept that Poles want us to reform the judiciary for defence against these reforms to deprive Poland of its sovereignty. This is not an opinion, it is, in fact, a fact, because there is no provision in the Treaties that speaks about the competences of the Union on the judiciary. But Judge Kaminska once said, "I want revenge." Well, according to the constitution, it may be hard to reverse it, but we, the judges, will interpret it to each other. And I think that's what you're doing today. Fearing judges not to be able to ask preliminary questions is another lie that is taking place in connection with this bill. Another thesis that falls: the judges faced a dramatic choice. It's the other way around. It is we, as the legislative authority, who are faced with a dramatic choice, because the situation in which one of the pillars of power clearly refuses to implement the principle of balance and the division of power, tries to put itself above other authorities, this is neither a joyful nor a sympathetic situation. This is a very difficult situation. But responsibility for the state requires that this difficult, undesirable situation be answered. And this law just gives an answer and a guarantee that if specific judges question the order of the state in our country with their actions that harm and harm the parties to the proceedings, as I said earlier... As a legislative authority, we have the right to determine the effect of something like this and to sanction such conduct against the law. That's what the three divisions of the authorities are all about. The legislative authority, in accordance with the Constitution, lays down rules, in a large part of the areas of functioning of the State these rules are implemented in concrete policies by the government, and the court sees whether these rules are implemented correctly and not in itself creating these rules. Another falsehood, which is consistent with this law and what needs to be done with the current situation in the judiciary, is this: after all, there is the content of the judgment of the Court of Justice. I read this sentence very detailed several times. I read it again when someone said that the KRS or the Disciplinar Chamber were being challenged in this judgment. The judgment of the Court of Justice is an abstract judgment, he does not at any point say that the KRS or the Disciplinary Chamber have any flaws. Putting pressure on the legislator to say that allegedly this law contradicts the judgment of the Court of Justice or that Poland does not even apply the judgment of the Court of Justice, is another element of this plan, which Mr Fróz quoted about the street and abroad. Street? We saw what those protests looked like. Even mobilized judges... For 100,000 people who perform legal competitions in Poland, turnout was not thrilling. I respect all the protesters, but let's be honest, but it wasn't a big assembly when we were talking about all the conventions that were organized to question the laws of the Sejm or general government policy. So it's false. Many have discussed the current state of the judiciary, its fitness or changes that have taken place in recent years. I'll stop here for a moment to correct a few elements and give the Senate some information as well. It was said that the examination of cases was prolonged, only that in order to assess whether really real proceedings have extended, we need to take into account the factors on the basis of which we evaluate how judges work. The judicial colleges, which disagree with the fact that the legislator shaped the National Judicial Council in a different way than before, that the judges' elites no longer reproduce in the KRS for subsequent generations, deciding who will be a judge in Poland, who will exercise power, in fact without democratic legitimacy... In my opinion, this system was breaking the constitution because once the power given to judges in the KRS was actually reproduced without further elections. A generation that was born after the adoption of the Polish Constitution, or a generation that did not, like me, have the opportunity to vote on the Polish Constitution, according to this mechanism there is no mandate... Judges who rule, do not have our mandate. New judges who would be elected would not have a democratic mandate, that is the fact. Some colleges ignore the KRS. We have 700 judicial vacancies, that's almost 10%. all the cast in the courts, and at the same time every year, cases arrive in the courts. In short, if it's about 10% less judges and a few percent More cases, then it's obvious that every judge has more work. In some areas subject to these statistics, due to the changes we have made, this time, despite these difficulties, has been reduced. The fact is that we should work consistently to ensure that the proceedings are conducted more efficiently, but the first step to be taken, the easiest step to do, is to direct the judges to work, to these vacancies simply. Yeah, 10%. This is a very important issue. And we see even the media reported it yesterday. That some judges go to Brussels, organize protests, and appear in the media every day. The question may be asked: what happens to matters that are entrusted to them? Well, yesterday it was reported in the media that one of the judges who went to the European Parliament didn't take a leave of absence at work, just left. They shall so inform the media, in accordance with a communication which has been forwarded by the court in which the judge is adjudicated. Many of you say that you need to reduce the cognition of courts so that registers are more efficient. Well, I agree that you can sit down and see if every category of cases should actually be dealt with by the court. But I can already imagine what would happen. After all, the National Court Register is a register kept by the Minister of Justice. I think the senator gave this example of court records here. If the court doesn't make entries, who will make them? Well, since the simplest part... And let me remind you that entries in the National Court Register sometimes settled disputes between partners in large companies, and there are changes in share capital with key investments. Of course, we can talk about how it could be pulled out of court. Sometimes partners question these resolutions. Imagine that, as requested by the Marshal of Justice, the Minister of Justice proposes a bill that matters relating to registers... be placed in the elected office and settled. I'm convinced... I know what the reaction would be. It would be said that the right to court is removed, that the Minister of Justice will dictate how companies are to function in Poland, that he takes under the whip entrepreneurs. You see that the introduction of judicial reform in such an atmosphere De facto, each of our projects is adopted in this way by the opposition, in the atmosphere of a very sharp political dispute, it is very difficult. Nevertheless, we will introduce these reforms. You also talked about violence in the family, at home. Such a bill in the Ministry is prepared. Due to the discount, he did not make it past the legislative path in the previous term. The Ministry of Justice has a project to ensure that the perpetrator of violence is immediately separated from the victims by the police. Procedures. I would like to remind you that at the end of the term of office a very large amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure was adopted. It has been created for many years and has also been prepared in response to the votes of the judges themselves. We have restored the experts, of course, in view of the constitutional reservations that have also been discussed here. And I'm going to get to that, because there was a very interesting question. Senator Borowski was talking about what's been going on in the last five years in the context of the problems of the people that Senator Staron was talking about. Some of the scandals that Senator Staron was talking about were about bailiffs. We all remember what it was like a few years ago, when you couldn't practically open a newspaper and not read an article about the bailiff taking someone's tractor, the baby took a crib, some old person took a refrigerator. Such matters were even on the agenda and were shown by the media. We have undertaken a very difficult and profound reform of the execution system in Poland. You scared it would be the end of the execution. You threatened to let all the bailiffs off the hook. In the meantime, we have a record execution. Data from the first year of implementation of this law: record effectiveness of executions and a much larger number of bailiffs. We opened up this profession and the scandals ended. This is an example of one of the many changes we've made. I also have to refer to a few statements made by Senator Sekuła, who said that... she deeply regretted that if, under exceptional circumstances, in accordance with the procedure which is in the Law on Courts, the President of the Court alters the scope of his duties, changes the department of the judge... He's appealing to the KRS, and this KRS is politicized. Well, it's just a tragedy. I will therefore remind you of what was in force before 2015. This is one of our most important changes in terms of strengthening judicial independence. Before 2015, in a law where you did not see the problem, the President of the Court could arbitraryly move judges between departments. Wasn't that a potential emphasis on judicial independence? If the judge in the criminal justice department properly... You can imagine that the judge deciding on an important criminal case concerning local politics gets this signal: you like criminal cases, you want to get promoted, you have beautiful results, but maybe you should think about it, because I'm actually missing judges in civilian cases. Yes? And I wonder if the possibility of such an action, of saying that if a sentence doesn't come in a few people's favors, the judge will be transferred to the civilian department from prison, where he ruled his entire life and specialized in it, arbitraryly by the president... Did he agree to the independence of the judge? According to the Platform, the European Commission and the Venice Commission, no one was interested in this. We've changed the rules. Today, indeed, a change in the duties of a judge is being tightened up by a very complicated procedure which gives the judge the right to appeal to the National Judicial Council. There's a specific procedure that indicates the circumstances and the rules that work when the president moves someone. This is a guarantee for every judge. It's completely the opposite. You're talking about those rules where we better regulate these appeals that this is a threat. However, before 2015, there was no such legislation at all. There was also the issue of administrative silence, about the fact that if the colleges did not deliver an opinion at the specified time, it was silence and that it was some supposedly rare institution. Well, High Senate, if by Monday evening, to 23.59 The Senate will not consider this law, which the Sejm adopted, and according to the Polish constitution, this law will go to the President. This is the highest form, you can say, of administrative, systemic silence. The bill shall be deemed to have been adopted. So, of course, this is a completely normal institution. And now there have been many times, and at the committee meeting, and during the debate. The issue of exemptions is that judges are supposed to be restricted to the possibility of using the civil and criminal rules, because this court is wrong and judges will not be able to benefit from these rules. Well, that's another complete stupidity. Before December... before the bill was proposed, the rules were in force, the judges were shut down, there were specific reasons, the whole mechanism worked. Here, President Zabłocki was asked whether he knew the ruling which, prior to submitting this draft, would indicate that the judge, based on these regulations, effectively stated that someone, another judge is not a judge, because he is appointed by some KRS which he does not like, or by the Council of State in the Polish People's Republic. Of course, this cannot be discussed here, because you are no longer questioning the Council of the State of the Polish People's Republic as the Civic Coalition. And there's no such thing as judgment. In short, the situation we regulate has never been the subject of judicial case law. We're just ahead of certain behaviors that, as you can see, are trying to carry out. So since the judge has never stated, under these laws, that a particular judge is not a judge, nothing will change. This bill simply says that these exemption laws have a limit, and it lies here, where this law indicates it. In fact, one can say that we are actually removing a loophole in the rules. Since it wasn't strictly regulated, someone might have thought that if it wasn't regulated, I would do it, I would interpret, as Judge Kaminska once said. Well, the legislator says stop. Because it's the legislator who decides what the law is, not the interpretation of the judge. The judge is just executing the bill by interpreting it. Only in this process is the exercise of the law, the application of the law. Here there are still issues concerning at all the mechanism or the possibility for the judge to state that another judge is not a judge, that anyone can overthrow him. I am the only one who reminds you that the Polish constitution simply says that the judge is inextricable. The judgment of the TSUE and of the Supreme Court cannot be deleted. And some people are trying to prove that this is the kind of process we're dealing with here. I disregard the President's exclusive competence to appoint judges. Well, so far, also in case law, all the courts have argued that, of course, the President's appointment closes the case. But today it's already 100 degrees... we're looking, we're figuring it out. This is the present treatment of the law, this is the present treatment of the Polish Constitution. But on paper, those sentences are. This law simply guarantees that what was clear and certain, and until recently undisputed, is to be consistently respected. If that's not the case, and the constitution hasn't changed, that means someone's breaking that constitution. And I don't think it's broken by someone who consistently, according to the doctrines that have been adopted so far, applies these views and judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, rather breaks the constitution, it breaks out of it, without amending the constitution... without changing the laws that would possibly remove the gaps if the case law of the courts was divergent, but in this case it was not divergent. Constitution of the National Judicial Council. Well, here it is in some places we've really got a ride without a hold on. You're so shed tears that now there's no Constitutional Court... Yeah, that's right. ...because he was taken over. And in 2015, in November, was the Constitutional Tribunal or was it not? He was. It was, it was the Court. Thank you for saying that. In good faith. I'm guessing 13 out of 15 members chose PO-PSL. And it was the Court. But how with voices... Change your tone. But if by voices... Well, you said there was a tribunal. Change your tone. Minister, I would ask you very much not to use the arguments ad personam. I didn't call anybody ad personam, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Civic Platform does not dispute that the Constitutional Tribunal was operating in Poland in 2015. I don't question that either. I merely note that even we, as the contemporary opposition, being aware that 13 out of 15 judges at the Court at that time were chosen by PO-PSL or 11, 12, well, generally the overwhelming number of... No one said it wasn't the Court, that it shouldn't be applied... We have a constitution that points to the choice of judges of the Constitutional Tribunal, which makes it so constructed. Well, we all know the history of the leading German policy from the CDU, which recently went to the German Constitutional Court, is about to become its chairman, even straight from the Bundestag. This is the constitutional model shaped in our constitution or in the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Germany that this procedure looks like. And we did not question that because we respected the Polish constitution, and you do not do so for your political use. But, Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And now we have... I beg you to remain calm, Senators. I'm asking you to calm down. [[Talking in the O.R.]] In short... moving from the point of view of whether we have a Constitutional Tribunal or not... We have a constitution that talks about a vocation procedure. In order for a judge to be appointed by the Constitutional Tribunal, he has to win the election. I remember what Mr Niesiołowski said in 2015. As you tried to protect yourselves at the Court because you knew there was a risk of losing the election, what actually happened, Mr Niesiołowski said: win your own elections, you will change. That was your approach. Without using this, I would like to point out that we have procedures in the Constitution and the elections we have won, as Mr Niesiołowski had foreseen, and, in accordance with the Constitution, we first removed your mistakes, and then, in accordance with the procedure, we appointed further judges, in accordance with the expiry of the terms of office of the individual judges. And in the autumn of the previous year I remind you: record result The Poles, despite this four-year fear that there is no rule of law in Poland, somehow felt that we were right, and I accept this vote as binding in this regard. So the sovereign, the Polish nation, gave us the right to elect further judges, in accordance with the procedure stated in the Constitution. So there's the Constitutional Court, point one. And since we have a Constitutional Court, we need to lean on the question of whether the KRS is constitutional. We have a ruling from the Constitutional Court. We know that for 18 years the National Judicial Council has operated in such a way that it itself has determined that the members of the National Judicial Council from among the judges, elected among the judges, will not have a total term of office. It caused the KRS to continue to coopt. And many judges have been questioning this model for years, and the judges have even called on the National Judicial Council at the time to ask the Constitutional Tribunal to investigate these issues. Finally, as a result of another complaint, the Court examined and ruled that the previous National Judicial Council was functioning in a non-constitutional manner, since in 2000 and 2017 those terms were wrongly marked, i.e. the body was wrongly filled. And now, back to your logic, or... Not yours, we're not on you. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to calm down. Not yours. I'm asking you to calm down! Ladies and gentlemen, back to this model of reasoning... Did we, as the camp of the United Right after this ruling, say that Mrs Gersdorf is not a judge? Because she was chosen by this KRS. Did we say that? We did not say this because the Constitutional Tribunal clearly stated the effect of the unconstitutionality of the functioning of the National Judicial Council. And he was the only one who could do it, and he did it. The bill's been amended. And here's another lie that supposedly shortened the term of office of members of the National Judicial Council. Since the non-constitutional terms of office of the members of the National Court of Justice were different, the obligation which the Constitutional Tribunal imposed on the legislator was that the legislature should equalise the terms of office. There is no other way to equalise the term of office than to shorten the term of office for certain people. And to be also close to the facts: the shortening of this term concerned only a few judges, and in some cases it was a reduction of a few months, a few weeks in order to achieve equality. It wasn't like those judges were supposed to be here for a few years, and that's how you put it, but they were running out of term. And the KRS has been chosen, and you're questioning that. Then the Constitutional Tribunal examined whether the Sejm could appoint members of the National Judicial Council. Here it is said that, yes, such a judgment is that the Sejm can choose, but we have such EU values that we must respect the independence of the courts, the independence of the judges. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this standard is the standard of the Polish constitution. It's not an exclusive European standard, it's a standard... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, could I have a moment of silence in the courtroom, please? You're welcome. If we are dealing with a standard which is required by EU law, which is required by the Polish Constitution, the Constitutional Tribunal, assessing the National Judicial Council and assessing that the model for the selection of judges to the National Judicial Council is in line with the Constitution, it therefore considers that such a constructed National Judicial Council can carry out its constitutional obligations, including those. ensuring the independence of the judiciary. At the same time, since this model creates a proper, constitutionally compatible National Judicial Council, it cannot be considered that the National Judicial Council, established in accordance with the Constitution, is breaking the constitution. This is simply illogical, because the Constitutional Tribunal has made an overall assessment of the functioning of the National Judicial Council. Now, let's get to the point... Because we already have a line of reasoning that allows us to answer whether we have in Poland a National Council of Courts, or whether it is established in accordance with the Polish system order. All the steps I have presented to you, there is no doubt that, in accordance with the passed laws, the decisions of the constitutional body, which is the Constitutional Tribunal, we have in Poland the National Council of the Court of Justice. Of course, she's being questioned, but as I said at the beginning, in her own particular interest. Not in the interests of a specific citizen who fears that the decision may not be fair, but in the case of the judges themselves, questions for a preliminary ruling were put. And we have a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, as I stress, does not say in any way whether the Disciplinary Board is properly empowered or whether the National Court Council is properly established. And now we need to consider the relationship between the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal and the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Because let's say, hypothetically, that there could be contradictions in this field, e.g. The contradictions about the very essence of this... Has every court, the referring court to which the Supreme Court was, had the right to appeal as a result of this judgment? Has the Court of Justice taken into account in its ruling the achievements of the Constitutional Tribunal? It could be a big deal. And here comes the caselaw of the Constitutional Tribunal from previous years, from previous term, when Mr Rzepliński, Mrs Łętowska, Mr Safjan were in its composition. Only today these judgments are forgotten by you, they no longer function as the basis for assessing the current state of affairs. One senator quoted the judgment concerning the EU Treaty, this accession, the 2005 judgment, which clearly indicated that, of course, the Constitution remains the overriding law in Poland. But we had further judgments in which, when examining the Treaty of Lisbon, the Polish Constitutional Tribunal, which agreed with the position of the German Constitutional Court, considered that the Constitutional Tribunal was in the area of it is the relationship between our internal order and EU law that preserves the rank of the court of the last word. In another judgment, already concerning not treaties, but secondary law of the European Union, i.e. the one already created by the European Union itself, the Constitutional Tribunal, chaired by Andrzej Rzepliński, stated that even such acts of law can be analysed in accordance with the Polish Constitution. And now let us imagine the situation that your fellow Members of the European Parliament's dream will come true, who asked yesterday to issue a regulation on blocking Poland's EU funds. The Court, presided over by Andrzej Rzepliński, ruled that the Polish Constitutional Tribunal had the right of EU regulation in accordance with the Constitution to verify. The Constitutional Tribunal stood so high in times where you had a greater impact on the creation of laws. Now it's all in the trash. The Constitution for Basketball, the Constitutional Tribunal's judgments for Basketball Because there is a priority to EU law, and this is with a complete disregard for this acquis of doctrine indicating how this hierarchy of sources of law is presented. Let me just remind you that Germany has a similar case before the Court of Justice, but German politicians do not drive, do not ask for a resolution, nobody attaches themselves to the German system of appointing judges in which politicians have a dominant role, and the German Constitutional Court has given a ruling stating that matters of judicial organisation are not the competence of the European Union. If the Court of Justice of the European Union had decided to address this problem, such a judgment would not have had due democratic legitimacy. That's how the Germans respect each other. What about us? The issue of a European arrest warrant was raised in this debate. That's part of the false concern, too. For years we have heard, in fact since the first judicial laws we have heard, that Polish judgments handed down by judges after reforms will not be respected in Europe, that no one will respect these judgments, that they will be pieces of paper. In one of the cases, this narrative that's being spread abroad... We very consistently and with great determination, and repeatedly, must correct these lies about the fact that in Poland even judges are arrested for political views, for opposing power. Even such visions reach our partners in the West and we must consistently straighten it out, say that this is completely absurd. There was a case of court in Ireland, which, listening perhaps to these fears, what came out of the mouth of representatives of the Polish opposition, that in Poland it no longer has a court of independent and independent courts, turned to the Court of Justice, what happens to the Polish judiciary, after all European arrest warrants... You scared exactly the same thing, the stripes with your screams were popping out of the TVs. The Court of Justice delivered a judgment and in that judgment stated that if there were doubts as to whether a particular person might have difficulty accessing a fair trial as a result of the execution of the European arrest warrant, it could be verified and assessed whether there was a problem with being subject to a fair trial. And the Ombudsman said that such a decision violated trust in Poland. I would like to inform you that the TSUE's judgment is at all... Let us, on the one hand, put your propaganda actions and attempts to influence the countries of Western Europe and, on the other hand, the procedural effect in the form of how real it was investigated or even questioned at all. In less than 1% cases concerning the European arrest warrant following a judgment by the Court of Justice of the European Union, the courts of other Member States in general considered it worth asking what was happening in Poland. That was less than 1%. This whole action of yours is so effective. Of course, you will be consistently leading it, so it cannot be predicted that we will not find out about the judgment in Malta in a moment, which states that there is no court in Poland and that the decision on alimony or parental care is not respected. Well, you can expect anything, but we survived the European arrest warrant. We have survived deceiving your propaganda and we see how the trust in the Polish judiciary is undermined after partial changes. Less than 1% applications and, in no case, I would like to stress that Poland has not been refused to issue the European arrest warrant sought in connection with the ruling of the Court of Justice and the alleged difficulties in obtaining a fair trial. And now let's put these facts together with your consistent fearing, with your propaganda, about the fact that alimony sentence or any other sentence that affects citizens is about to be called into question. And I'm getting back to the point. This is a false concern for the citizen, because you only care that judges do not answer to the Disciplinary Chamber, you only care that judges continue to have a key influence on who is a judge in Poland, contrary to democratic legitimacy, which must have every power in Poland. This is false concern because the facts are against this propaganda. It's been going on for five years. Well, let me remind you that 500 judges have already been appointed as a result of the operation of the new National Judicial Council and no one has questioned their judgments, except, of course, those minor cases that are political in nature. It's important. And it also fell in one of the senators' very rational statements. You say so much that the judiciary is politicized, that these judges elected by the new KRS are some kind of... that they have to ask the Minister of Justice almost everything to give a ruling. That's the picture you draw. Well, it's been a full first term. You could say that two years have changed courts, the partial ones we've introduced. Well, it seems to me that if there was such a case that the judge was giving a ruling while consulting anyone at the Ministry of Justice, with any law and justice policy, it would be a huge scandal publicised by the media. You do not have any fact that you could cite as proof that the judges appointed by the new National Court of Justice do not have the quality of judicial independence. This is your projection, this is your idle thinking, this is your trial. undermining democratically elected power. It's just a projection, there's no facts. Here's another thing. "Assessors." I very much thank both the Ombudsman and Senator Mark Borowski for recalling this example, because Mr Bodnar pointed out that we have a way out of this crisis and pointed out the procedure for establishing that specific mechanisms may be incompatible with the Constitution. Exactly. Asessors are the perfect example of how to solve such problems. If there really was a problem with the National Judicial Council I'm hypothetically speaking. It's not the Courts of Justice, it's not a download from the Venice Commission... If there is doubt, the suspicion that the institution of the asessor is acting contrary to the Polish system order, with the Polish constitution, then you can send a question to the Constitutional Tribunal, file a complaint. Several of these forms of the Polish constitution are foreseen. The Court shall rule and, if it sees a genuine non-compliance with the Constitution, it shall indicate the effect, indicate what the judgments are and when the legislator should react. Well, assesons are the perfect example. If there were indeed a problem with the National Judicial Council, if the Constitutional Tribunal had seen this problem, even if it had actually found the unconstitutionality of the National Court of Justice of the European Union to be unconstitutional And we know it didn't happen. Probably, you could presume, he'd take advantage of that assailant ruling. Well, with this argument, you shot yourself in the knee, because there was no such situation as the problem with the assailants that the Constitutional Tribunal gave the ruling, and the judge said: you were not an assailant, there is no judgment. Well, in exceptional cases, if it was considered that this had had an impact on independence, a specific judgment could have been called into question. This is exactly the same situation. It was a shot in the knee showing that not facts, not legal arguments matter on your side, but a petty policy to scare Poles. Mr Bodnar's next statement also outlined some problems and, you might say, showed how the judges themselves treat the Constitution. Jury associations are a bit like trade unions, as spokesperson Bodnar said. I remind you that the Polish constitution prohibits judges from joining in the union formula, so it seems a bit like Mr Bodnar is accusing judges that they are trying to celebrate the constitution by establishing judicial associations. And somehow I don't see you outraged by such a case or some kind of statement, which should be done with this case. Meanwhile, our bill completely respects the fact that the judges are in their associations. I respect you. They may be in the association "Iustitia" or "Themis" they may be in the hunting union, they may be in the unions... in the fans' associations or in any other association. But so there's no doubt about their impartiality. After all, the constitutional principle of the right to review the case by an impartial court has repeatedly been invoked. This increase in this guarantee is made by making a public statement as to whether the judge is acting publicly in these areas. And that's where we're going to raise those standards again. And now I'm getting to the conclusion. High Senate, the law passed by the Sejm stabilizes the Polish legal system, protects it from anarchy, protects the legal system against the possibility of undermining any judgment that has been passed for the last 30 years. Since one judge today says that he does not like the new KRS and someone is not a judge, the judge of the new KRS can say that the judge of the unconstitutional KRS, from 2000 to 2018, does not like it either, or that the judge appointed by the Council of State of the PRL is not a judge who guarantees, in accordance with the TSEU test, his independence. Well, we never know if it's like Mr. Lech Wałęsa. Someone won't find out he's got his file in the closet. We don't know that, but hypothetically, this could happen. It is the logic that some judges present and present the current majority of the Senate, but in general the opposition in the Polish parliament. That's what you think. This is dangerous thinking for the Polish state. Therefore, for the stability of the legal system in Poland to be preserved, the adoption of this law is necessary. An attempt to give Polish sovereignty to the outside is a trick for bringing anarchy. It's also very dangerous. This is a very dangerous precedent that can be used against Poland in the future. Namely, since part of the Polish political elite, part of the Polish legal elite claims that, in addition to the powers conferred on the European Union, the Court of Justice can impose certain elements, like other European countries, when they do not have such standards in their legislation, it creates a dangerous precedent that in a few years' time Even when perhaps the state, if it is the will of Poles, you will take over the power In other cases, this can also be used. It is really very dangerous that you are playing with Polish sovereignty, contrary to the Constitution. The Polish Constitution clearly states... the Constitutional Tribunal's case law... I purposely recall the names of the judges who are authorities to you, so that you understand that the Polish pro-state attitude requires respect for this acquis, not exploitation of it because you can't accept defeat in elections and have decided to defend... Mr. Neumann said on the videos: we defend our own like independence. And that's what it looks like now. It's kind of like that in this case. This is a desperate call from the Venice Commission to help in the matter of really how judges are appointed is already another step, not so much in giving away Polish sovereignty, because here it concerns the European Union, but in revealing such a neocolonial mentality. Why? Well, if the Senate Marshal were interested in what view the Venice Commission had on the appointment of judges prior to her invitation, which, in my opinion, was completely unlawful. It would find out that in 2007 the Venice Commission issued a general opinion. In this general opinion, the Venice Commission stated that there are countries in Europe of new democracy and old democracy, and in the countries of old democracy it is acceptable that a political factor should have a decisive impact on the appointment of judges, but it is unacceptable for the states to be called. These models have been used by young democracy. What else is a permit for the Venice Commission to speak on this matter, as not admitting that Poland could be a second-class country? So we as a country of the European Union, which under the Treaties should be treated equally Because this is the basic principle of functioning in the European Union, that all Member States are equal to - de facto we want to listen to an opinion which, in principle, places one country above and the other one below. One can say even more harshly: putting one country as one within the same structure... We are in the European Union and have an obligation to respect each other in such a way that the rights of all members of this community are equal. Accepting to accept that we have... In Germany, politicians are calling judges and it is correct, and it is a beautiful, thriving democracy, and there is a balance between the authorities and in Poland even the choice for the body, where the majority are judges, where judges are elected, is already a violation of the rule of law. This is, you can say, a legal apartheid, because just as people have been sorted out, their rights have been defined, what can and cannot be done by others, so here it is even the same with regard to the nation. One nation may be more and the other nation may be less within the same structure. This is unacceptable. And that is why I am surprised that we have allowed such a situation, that there is another stage of pressure on the Polish case, purely systemic and internal. The discussion that has been going on over the last few days has only proved that it is necessary to adopt this law. You are not interested in ending the crisis in the Polish judiciary, the crisis which results from the fact that some judges, contrary to the Polish system of order, question the status of other judges. You are interested in keeping this crisis going on and on. This discussion has shown that the adoption of this law is necessary, and it is an urgent adoption of this law. If this law comes into force, I guarantee it to you. We will consistently change the Polish judiciary. The point is that the situations that Senator Staron described shouldn't happen. Many years before us and many important laws, but, I hope, considered internally in Poland, without trying to attract Poland as a second-class country, a country which is slowly less. And I'm sure after we've passed this bill, we'll finish. It's been a long time since we've been The reform of the judiciary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the adjournment. I'm declaring a recess until 3:00 p.m.... We're still on the news. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u72	High Izbo, present the announcement. The meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Commission on the examination of the applications submitted at the third Senate meeting to the Act amending the Law on the Law on the System of General Courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws, Senate Print No. 30, will take place on 17 January, today, 15 minutes after the announcement of the break in room No. 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u73	I'm declaring a recess. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 03 to 15 minutes 01]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. The meeting of the Legislative Committee and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions took place at the time of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 30 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report from the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commissions at its meeting on 17 January 2020 considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 15, 16 and 17 January 2020 on the Law amending the Law I present to the High Senate the following position. The following applications were submitted: one application . to reject the law in its entirety; second application For the adoption of the law without amendment; and the third motion by Senator Zając For amendments to the Act. The joint committees shall vote by 18 votes to 12... the Commission shall present its position to the High Senate to accept the proposal set out in point I, i.e. the motion to reject the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u75	Thank you very much, Marshal. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Mark Pęk, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u76	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Senators of Law and Justice maintain the proposal for a law without amendment. This law is expected, socially necessary, within the competence of the Polish Parliament, which, in accordance with the European Treaties, has the right to regulate the issue of the Polish justice system. We have the right to a Polish judicial model. Poles are waiting for this reform. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u77	Does Senator Józef Zając still want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u78	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Presenting the amendments prepared by the group of Gowin, which were mostly technical, but also somehow smoothing out in some places the proposal of this law... I very much regret that they were rejected on the occasion of a large vote. But I hope we have the opportunity to continue working on the contents of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment. Voting on the amendments tabled will be carried out if previous requests are rejected. We are voting on the proposal of the Legislative Commission and of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I state that 99 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 48 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] In view of the result of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy and considering it as point 10; the second reading of the draft resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation and consider it as the eleventh point. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases. The text of the Act is contained in print No 28 and the report of the Commission In print No 28 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] If the senator had waited a moment for the room to reorganize... I ask that those of you who plan to leave the room do so as quickly as possible. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, I have the honour to present a report on the work on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases The purpose of this Act is to improve the activities carried out in the context of the eradication and prevention of infectious animal diseases, with particular regard to African swine fever and the reduction of feral pigs In view of the key role of these animals as a reservoir and vector for African swine fever. The amendment to the Forest Act gives the possibility to allocate funds for the implementation of fences restricting the migration of animals from forest areas. The bill abolishes the need to obtain building permits... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like your attention, please. Thank you very much. The Act abolishes the need to obtain permits for the construction of disinfectants. The law shall give the right to fire the animal's health without prejudice to the rules on safety in hunting referred to in Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Law of Hunting Law. It gives tenants or managers of hunting circuits the opportunity to apply for support by the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Department and State Veterinary Inspection. It gives the possibility, in conjunction with the aforementioned, to protect against the introduction of third parties to the area where hunting takes place. It offers the possibility to search for dead pieces, observe bioinsurance during hunting and during the development of the game. It introduces a record of punishment for intentional obstruction and prevention of hunting; it is a fine or prison sentence for up to 1 year. Gives the possibility to use sanitary weapons equipped with a bang silencer. By using such weapons, wild boars are reduced more effectively, and at night, this shooting is less burdensome for the inhabitants. It gives the possibility to order road managers to close public roads to pass in road lanes, build fences or technical security. The Act introduces penalties for obstruction of sanitary discharge and penalties for a manager who does not follow the instructions of a veterinarian or voivode. It introduces tools to implement the sanitary fire ordered by the voivode under the authority of the Minister of Interior with the assistance of the Police, the Border Guard, the State Fire Department and soldiers with the powers of hunting, including the sanitary fire. The sources of funding are, in principle, the budgetary resources of the Voivodeships and State Forests. Each case of a virus in a new place makes it necessary to create restriction zones. The introduction of the virus from the environment to pig farming makes it necessary to kill the entire herd. Such an action to eliminate the occurrence of a virus in a given area costs about PLN 5 million. I'll add that article. Article 42 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 10b introduces an authorisation for the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development to lay down bio-insurance rules during hunting or sanitation and during the management of the game. It introduces a warrant for washing and disinfection of shoes after leaving the fishery, inactivating the virus on equipment and clothing, eviscating wild boars only on foil, decontaminated the place of evisceration with a biocidal agent. The law is compatible with EU law. It facilitates the reduction of wild boars, implementing the Polish state's right, and leads to the implementation of solutions modelled on our Western neighbours, Germans and French, who are already fighting preventively today, lead to intense wild boars being shot away. And so far they haven't had African fever. This law is expected by the environment of Polish farmers, hunters and breeders. It is prepared in such a way as to help farmers, help farmers, Polish economy and Polish consumers. From this point on, I appeal to the High House that we all, above political divisions, should join in the fight against this disease, with this virus, because this is what farmers, farmers, expect from us, is what Poles expect from us. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, the joint committees which met at their meeting on 9 January 2020, request the adoption of a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u81	Thank you very much, senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur for minorities of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Rotnicka, to present the proposals of the minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u82	I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, for a moment of hesitation, but I've spoken to one more applicant. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present a motion from the minority. By the way, I'd like to present a few more of my additional amendments. I'll tell you why. The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment was held in such a way that the social side and invited guests were prevented from expressing themselves fully. And the bill presented is a law that inspires a very deep debate in the community. Because on the one hand we understand that farmers have a problem with African swine fever and want to take care of their farms, their property and possible future income, but on the other hand there is a lobby, well, let's even call it that hunters, who as the only effective way to eliminate the ASF see only gunshots and nothing more. On the other hand, it is to be allowed and protected by any form of firing, because there is no clear distinction between sanitary firing and hunting of other types in the bill. The discussion we had with the social side after the rejection... i.e. After the adoption of the law without amendments, because such a proposal was made at the beginning, almost before the discussion, caused that we now have a different look at this law. We invited scientific authorities in the veterinary field, mammal biology, the National Council for Nature Conservation, the Polish Society of Ethics, in the field of zoology, so that we were explained exactly what the ASF is. Well, if you'd like to hear this, I'll give you some news from experts. Originally, the African swine fever virus was characteristic of breeding animals. And it's not the wild that move the ASF to breeding, it's the virus that slipped out and moved far into the field, into nature. Second observation and second argument. The wild boar, the living one, is not the primary source of transmission of the ASF virus, but it is the man who, through the infected blood, by trampling on the carcass, by not performing and following the bioinsurance rules of this virus, moves to his bypass. Another argument. The carrier of the ASF virus, the wild boar, has not much territorial coverage of feeding, action. That's why the main carrier of the virus is human. Because from Eastern Poland, who moved the virus? The wild boar carried this virus to the land of Lubuskie, or perhaps the hunter who hunted, did not protect himself in the right way and on his clothing, footwear, etc. Did he move the virus? And perhaps the cars that were on their way to the disposal of those dead boars didn't have adequate bio-insurance, and that's what caused the virus to move there? So, ladies and gentlemen, this is one thing. The second thing is social organizations demanding equal treatment of hunters who, of course, do their jobs, let's say, work their jobs, but also sometimes carry out their hobbies, because we have different types of hunting: collective, individual, commercial, all you know about it, and people who want to come freely in the woods. And there is a dissonance in the conduct of both. So in the law that we apply, we must clearly safeguard the interests of one and the interests of another. The amendments made by the minority are aimed at making clear the distinction between sanitary firing and other types of hunting... Alternatively, those who interfere with this sanitary discharge could be punished, but those who do not do so in the case of other types of hunting have as good access to the forest as any other. And that's why there's an amendment that says that the person Read: Hunter or someone else Who does some hunting in the woods had a certificate of what she was doing here, so that whoever she turns to shouldn't walk in the woods would have the opportunity to see such an authorisation for a given kind of hunting. Of course, there are also comments that say that a well placed bioinsurance should be the responsibility of the state. And it's not just compensation for a farmer who's lost his herd. I think these pigs are put to sleep and then they're burned, I don't know exactly. But it is also a matter of smaller farms that should apply this bio-insurance. And finally, there's this purely human look. In our society, of course, there are people who are indifferent to the animal, because it is treated as a thing, as a train force, as a source of food. Well, there's just different looks. And there are those who have the fate of animals and what animals feel lies in their hearts. So you can't ignore the view of more vulnerable people. However, in understanding all the sharpenings, we must, as parliamentarians, choose a golden measure. These problems, ladies and gentlemen, there's a lot in this bill. There is another one that concerns the formation of roads, these transitions ecologically for animals. The record is that the road manager is responsible for these investments. And who's the road manager? The county, the commune... Voivodship. ...voivodship It depends. These are the additional costs that the government will charge if that's the case. And nowhere does it say that this is done for reimbursement of the costs that the municipality or district will incur. So that we can't accept certain records. Other records can be liberalized. In any case, my position, as, say, a representative of this minority group... my amendments aim to civilize this law. We're not definitely against this bill. We realize we have to do something about this virus, and there's no vaccine on this virus. This virus, as scientists say, can survive in hosts for a few years. This is a kind of pandemic. So we can't get rid of this virus so soon. So first of all bioinsurance, bioinsurance and bioinsurance. There are records in this bill that release in the case of the construction of these neces, such disinfectants, so name them... That's building law. There is also a change when it comes to firing with the possibility of using silencers. We're against the use of silencers, too. It's a story that we won't wake anyone up at night, we won't scare the wild, but in fact then we can let poachers into the woods with such a silent weapon. So we're against it. Maybe there'll be other questions like that, so I can answer them here or at the committee meeting. Because these amendments will be made to the Senate bureau. So, to close... As I understand it, the senator's making amends, right? That's what I'm saying. Minorities? And our own, so we don't have to speak again. And, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, here's what I'm going to say. The subject of this law, the subject of hunting, firing, ASF disease is as wide as the river. And we're standing on two different sides. We'd like to be on one shore, which means we have to go from one shore to another in some way. But in such a way as not to drown. So I ask you to think about it, to look at these amendments and, if possible, to accept them. Because then that bill would be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The draft law was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Was there a question? I'm sorry, I... No, no. I just want to come forward for the discussion. Yes, please sign up for the discussion. Secretary of State, Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Simon Giżyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u84	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I very much thank both the rapporteur and the senator, who has just presented minority proposals, because both points of view very clearly reflect these main themes of the discussion held at the Senate committee meeting at the committee meetings which I witnessed and attended. And in today's reality, when the discussion of this law is going through the media, we all participate in it a little or very much. Today, too, and perhaps above all, there is a very good opportunity to not so much summarize this discussion as to refer to these most important themes. Of course, where necessary, in the mode of correcting, explaining, but in very good contact, both in these negative and positive threads, with the matter of cases. That is why my thanks were very sincere and addressed equally to both countries. I'm going to start with a correction for a myth that has gone completely unnecessary, a fiction created, which can be very easy to prove by referring to the draft law that we are currently debating. This is the alleged cost of local governments, which has just been described here as the cost of road fences. Well, there's nothing like that in the bill, because this record doesn't apply to roads, it just goes under highways in selected places where grid partitions are created. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not up to any local authorities to decide whether they will be interested in this at all, because it is a huge area. At this moment we are almost finishing such a large rectangle, which is a rectangle on one side on the level from the German border to Poznań and below, from the German border to Wrocław, i.e. A2 and A4, cut through express roads, namely S3 and S5, west of Wrocław and Poznań and east of Wrocław and Poznan. And this is a rectangle... After all, we know, we all have imagination and we know the map of Poland, so we know what huge sizes this rectangle is. So, ladies and gentlemen, not local governments. Well, how could they haunt it, how could they be invited to such a task, to conquer, even these transitions, local governments, municipalities, districts? After all, it's impossible, it would be absurd if we came up with something like this. This will only be done by the national Directorates and the Ministry of Infrastructure, and will put the necessary resources on it. Let's forget about local governments that would do some uncalled road fences in the law at all. They won't even have those crossings in service, because only the state can do it, only the ministry. It's been done so far. As I said, we will be finishing this rectangle in two to three weeks, but under the conditions of the previous law, when the Minister, the Prime Minister, could have ordered it and it was done. And it is. Now it is already included in the law, and this is a task that we can treat as a task which will be carried out by law, as own duties, in this sense understood, in correspondence with the voivode, and I will speak about it in a moment. And I think it's a once and for all thing, which I'm asking you to do, explained. If we're talking about real costs, I want to say it again. I'll give you some examples. That no costs will be charged because they cannot burden the self-government. If we're talking about other costs, I'm going to say that all those costs that we're going to bear, for example. Veterinaries are also completely obvious and fully attributed to state expenditure. I will also talk about this in such a short résumé regarding this positive reference to the law, but in order to satisfy your curiosity as soon as possible about this cost thread, I will say that such costs as food costs, accommodation costs, ammunition will be borne by the voivode, each of the 16 voivodeships and at the same time 16 chiefs of crisis staff in their voivodships, namely the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Of course, the costs are also borne by the Ministry of National Defence, because the soldiers who will participate in these sanitary hunts will be posted to carry out their duties. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few more words about this topic, which also In spite of the motivation, of course, aside from other conditions and references, it contains a lot of positive references from my point of view. I would also like to say with satisfaction about some of them, with clear emphasis, because they are also a reflection of the great success of the government, the Polish state, the Polish society, which is just validating in awareness and in some implementation of the reduction of the population of feral pigs. Here I am thinking about the great success of Poland, which we jointly achieved on October 3, 4. R. in Prague. At a delegation meeting It was an agricultural summit, so it was the whole Visegrad Group plus the ministerial representation of Romania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, and also the ministerial, very high representation of the current Presidency in the European Union, the Finnish Presidency... I shorten: this meeting was organized on the initiative of Poland, with a Polish draft final position on the reduction of the population of boars agreed laborably with the host, i.e. with Minister Fialka, whom I invited to Częstochowa and there at an official meeting, also widely published, we agreed on a draft of this position, and then we presented it together in Prague. He was expressed with great sincerity and with great positive tension and complete argument adopted as an official position, recommended by the European Union, recommended by the European Commission. It was a recommendation, in my opinion, of a congenial nature, because we have also received absolute confirmations of our position, which are entirely in line with the position of the European Commission and the European Union, EFSA on this subject. And I want to tear down the peace. The European Union opts for a triad: bioinsurance first, then the search for dead boars, and finally the reduction... Ladies and gentlemen, I declare, on behalf of the Polish Government and, if I may say so, the truth about the position of the European Commission and the European Union: it is exactly the opposite. The Triad looks quite the opposite. I mean. reduction of wild boar population, then finding all dead boars and finally We attach great importance to this, which I can prove and talk about for a long time. Bioinsurance. And the bioinsurance records are also in this bill. Very heavy and very incriminating hunters and hunters who will not follow the rules of bioinsurance and stay in the forest. Please check it out. The check is very easy here, because I'm just talking about facts. Repeatedly repeated, repeatedly recorded. After all, it was a year ago, ladies and gentlemen, when we tried in other legal conditions, also allowing it, to do sanitary hunting, big hunting, and all the troubles that we are going to talk about here, which you were talking about, which was an expression of concern for animals, came out. We were attacked by a letter of a thousand, by organized large pieces of public opinion, environmentalists and other environments very reluctant to the Polish state, because this is what the game is about here... So what happened? How did we silence the moods and the chase? Did we do it? Government? No. We didn't have the strength. And now we're referring to the same arguments I just did. Ladies and gentlemen, after two days, the matter was quieted down, the ecologists calmed down, the scholars who signed under this letter publicly signed because they received a terrible blow in the form of EFSA's position, the highest scientific authority in the field of infectious diseases. The same was true of political positions which immediately fell in the form of grave, serious statements and arguments of the most important bodies of the European Union and the Commission, and in this respect there was silence. Well, the silence has been interrupted because now this bill has come into session. But look what's going on here. The scientists who, of course, are speaking on this issue at the moment, then withdrew to pre-emptive positions. Well, there's the name of the scholar... Well, I'm talking very constructively here, so it's gonna be nameless, but this allusion is obviously about Not just this one person, but a series of others. Well, first of all, this professor's thesis is that there's nothing to talk about, because wild boars are infected, and this whole population... It should be forgotten at all, because they infect themselves and exhale themselves. Well, it didn't happen because it couldn't have happened. Smarter professors in Poland and other parts of the world knew that this was a bad assumption. Then the same professor said... Because he saw that they didn't exhale, but the disease mutated and it happened that these wild, seemingly healthy, walk and infect - Can they infect you? Other animals, other wild animals. Well, if that's the case, he's the one who started to promote the thesis: let's learn to live with the ASF. And we are all aware of the fact that we are partakers of public life They must have heard that password a thousand times. And now the last rescue that we've just seen today is that we need this triad or triad theory to violate and reverse, and then somehow out there, we're gonna look out for ourselves and we're gonna have at least a minimum chance of organizing any kind of resistance to this bill. And the same professor at the moment is a hot proponent of this and he says, well, there's a vector, so you have to shoot, but the most important thing is bioinsurance, then there's the question of finding boars, and finally there's a reduction. It's just that this professor and everyone who supports his thesis more or less consciously needs to know that the vector vector is a vector, but the most important thing in terms of operationality is the concept here. In fact, what it means is the reservoir. The vector is something secondary, it's the point of the reservoir. You can also... Ladies and gentlemen, and it will already be such a direct transition to a certain practice, because all this de facto law speaks only about practice, of course in relation to the Polish state right, the Polish national interest. But all this indicates, also our positive example... Because we went from 109 new fires to 49 fires last year. The fire, as you know, is of course ASF in the herd of pigs. First of all, we've had a great success. 60%. That means bio-insurance works. This is our absolute priority task, carried out successfully, but all 48 focal points have been unambiguously confirmed. One direction: forest, environment, wild, i.e. vector and reserve at the same time, with emphasis on the reserve. There is nothing left here but a reminder, at the end, of absolutely positive examples. Our bill refers to the success of the Czechs in eliminating ASF cases in wild boars in their territory. They fenced the area and took it down rapidly, quickly. We did it in the case of Lubuskie voivodship, where probably in the first two decades ASF appeared under very strange circumstances. We talked about it, the case is known, and I'm not gonna say it in detail anymore. We applied the Czech option, and we applied it immediately. A fence was created within 3 days, the services entered and under the control of the European Union was correlated with the activities of veterinary services, including hunters, very wide, effective and excellently conducted action. I repeat: in a correlation with Union inspectors, that is, according to the latest studies on effectiveness, humanitarianism, the restrictions and permits needed. This trial is on completion. In these urgent conditions, when the virus was, in quotes, transferred by 300.360 km, we successfully applied the Czech model. The Commission's position and the wisdom of the German and French governments have been confirmed by the most important reduction on the basis of prevention. They behaved just as wisely as the Czechs. The Czechs were already in harm's way. They acted brilliantly, in their own way, not particularly looking at any permits. They just treated it as a technical problem. They fired at the right time, when it happened, and they didn't have ASF. We didn't shoot six years ago when it was the same as in the Czech Republic. We didn't shoot. There were political decisions not to shoot. And we've got it so far. The Germans and the French, as you can see, read Jan Kochanowski. They've done it before the damage, and they're still calm. Preventionally, over a million wild boar populations have been reduced in each of these countries. We want to transfer all these positive experiences to the Polish soil, use all the suggestions of the countries that have won with the ASF, the Czech Republic, Belgium, Germany and France. We want to do it at home and give it a strong, decisive legal basis. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of these completely descriptive messages concerning the very construction of the bill. In this law, the voivodeships who will carry out both models, if necessary, will play a key role in their activities as chiefs of crisis staff. They will have the opportunity to ask the Minister for National Defence to delegate a specific contingent of troops and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration to delegate a complementary contingent of Police, State Fire and Border Guards in a situation requiring immediate response. We immediately come across the next trace of such completely forceful accusations, already completely absurd, such as soldiers, police officers in gala uniforms, with the latest automatic weapon of the 17th generation, and they will shoot. Officers will enter, but in uniforms adapted to the circumstances. It will only be those officers who have permission for hunting weapons who are practicing hunters, and it will be the best. They will be carefully selected, from different angles, as experts of specific forests, specific areas. The point is to do it all as quickly and as best as possible. With great pedantria, this law has been passed on the basis of the laws of logic. I think that, from the critical point of view and from the point of view of its success in practice, it is safe. Of course, I serve you with my presence while you ask questions. There are a lot of specific provisions that concern such a feasibility study, so that this law is fully applicable in practice. We think we've seen the most important things ahead of us. It's a question of hunting safety, because it has to be safe... It can't be that somebody's gonna lie in front of the hunters' barrels, or he's gonna be out there laughing in the face and in the face, and he's not gonna take any responsibility for it. This responsibility will be because the person who does so threatens his or her life, his or her health, also threatens the lives of third parties and, which is also very important, but in the second place, actively opposes the implementation of a fundamental task for Poland, for our country, for our nation, a priority task in terms of the Polish reason of the state. That's just the way it is. We do not define this differently than the Czechs, the Belgians, the Germans and the French, perhaps the most Germans and the French, because the Czechs did it preventively and after a few weeks they were calm, and so far they are vigilant, because they are doing their job, exactly in the spirit of the likeness of this country. I introduced it. From this spirit comes our bill. For the sake of your country, for your national interest, for your German and French right state just Germany and the French... We follow this way precisely and precisely, precisely and precisely, and with their great support, which you also know very well, because this is the motive which has been present in Polish press for several good days, in Polish media. So the safety of hunting is ensured here by a certain Penalization, which, as I have pointed out just now, is less severe than the Penalization envisaged for hunters who do not respect the principles of bioinsurance. But it's necessary. It is necessary to hunt in the context of sanitary hunting. Weapons equipment... What about recreational? Please? Recreational. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u85	Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but... You interrupted me. Minister... Excuse me, Mr. Senator, the time to ask questions will be in a moment when the Minister is gracious to finish his statement. I'm just finishing up. No, no, I'm not rushing you, I'm just paying attention to the senators to ask questions in the time they're destined for. Please, Minister, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u86	You interrupted me, and I had the last five words to say. I'm gonna say this sentence. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. It's the way it's supposed to be. Silencers are used during hunting as part of sanitary firing and it is written in the law literally. This is for our sake and for your happiness, fortunately for all of us, for the nation, for society, because this is the good that I think will also be adopted in this House precisely because of the motivation to do something necessary at this stage to take care of society, countries for their own interests. The charge of obstructing the hunt... In my opinion, this does not even concern, as far as penalisation is concerned, how it is formulated, only in fact it concerns hindering hunting at the level of this completely false agitation, equipped with false, lying, imprecise, not having anything to do with the bill of charges. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak in such a respectable group. In my feeling I said what is most important and fundamental, I said it all in the best faith, because only the best faith in what we will do together with the law is convinced that it will serve Poland very well in a preventive sense for the coming decades, and that it will prove its effectiveness in the coming months. It is about the effectiveness of the withdrawal of ASF, so to speak, on the shelf, somewhere where there is no trouble, where ASF is not active and where there is no danger, where it does not move within Poland, while at the same time what Germany, the French, the Czechs, the Belgians are doing, there is still at the highest level maintained prevention Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Currently, five senators have signed up. I just want to let you know that today, at the Seniors' Convention, we discussed strict compliance with the Rules of Procedure of our House. And let me repeat, the questions are supposed to last 1 minute and concern the bill we're considering. Each of the senators will have time to speak later in the discussion. Please, Mr. Józef Zając will be the first to ask a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u88	Mr. Marshal! Minister! About a year and a half ago, I attended a district hunting meeting with a colleague sitting next to me and a minister. There we heard some of the proposals you have made here. And I have to say, one of my questions I want to repeat is: does the Minister really think that organizing a criminal company equipped with some kind of special weapon with silencers will give a result? Silencers are unnecessary for hunting to me, and I'm an old hunter. In my experience, there's one thing. It won't, it won't. Mr. Senator, please follow the time... Yes. ...that's 1 minute, and ask a question. And the second question is, what does the vector mean in your statement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u89	I ask you, Minister, to answer the senator's questions. If you don't mind the mic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u90	Mr. Senator, of course, this is a very colorful term for criminal accompaniment, including with such a very modest attribute as a silencer. This is so well-established in this bill that we have sought the opinion of the opposite, the experts, who have expressed themselves publicly against the claims which the senator has put here. We took advantage of their rational, in our understanding, hints. The mufflers, of course, are used to... in hunting conditions, the sounds of gunshots scare the game, and the mufflers prevent it. I've talked to hundreds of hunters and they've been saying exactly what I'm saying, not you. And the second thing is to include the concept of vector in such freedom to talk about the law, about the whole ASF problem, about the problem of boars: that this is the most important vector, the basic vector... I also use this word here, as you have noticed, in relation to and in relation to a certain opposition to the definition of a reserve. Right? Because it's not enough to talk about the vector, it's also important to talk about the reservoir, which is where this potential of infected boars, or vectors, reaches the places where the next phase or next stages of infection occur. And, to put it very clearly and concretely, because that's probably what you meant... If you don't like that term, I'll give you the source right away. I took that idea. You might be surprised here, because it's convenient, it's descriptive... I know it may not be associated with the rules of mathematics in the literal sense. Well, math is understood as the first, most important science... Of course, here it is more colloquial. However, a very wide range of scholars are using the term vector for wild boars, using it for purposes and intentions completely contrary to those whom I worship. As co-author of some of the ideas written in this bill, I pay tribute to them. So that I use this word; but in such intentions as scientists use it, I do not use it, because the word vectors without reservoirs, in practice, do not function and do not picture the drama of the epidemic of wild boars with ASF in Poland and other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u91	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Senator Ewa Gazwada to ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Many hunting wheels do not have a cold store to store shot-off game, which in the case of infectious diseases, mainly ASF, will create a huge problem with wildfires in the area where ASF appeared. Senator, I'm so sorry. I'm asking you to talk, if you have to talk in a way that doesn't interfere with the senator's questioning. In areas where ASF appeared, i.e. in the so-called. zones, each wild boar shot must be tested for ASF before the hunter can take it for his own use. Until the results of the test have been obtained, the boar must be in the cold store. Many cold stores in the country have been purchased by veterinary inspectors, but they generally do not have the conditions, because in addition to the purchase you have to put such a cold store somewhere and somehow operate it. Minister, is there a specific record of who's going to buy these cold stores, and are there any support programmes for buying such cold stores? That's the first question. Second question. In the case of a fallen wild animal, its owner, in accordance with the current legal provisions, is the owner of the land on which the animal fell. Therefore, if an animal falls on a private property, the private person is responsible for removing and covering the costs of disposal. This is not conducive to rapid reporting of the occurrence and disposal of fallen animals. Often it comes to the so-called. A brawl about who's gonna clean up the carcass. There's phone calls, there's office calls to the office, and time's running. This time is of great importance in the case of ASF and the removal of fallen wild boars from the environment. The question is, wouldn't it be a good idea if the municipalities were responsible for cleaning dead animals? Of course, excluding road lanes and areas of State Forests. Water tanks, watercourses and trackways are also problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u94	The issue of cold storage was also present in the questions raised by the senator at the Senate committee meeting. I had to leave at the time, because unfortunately I had very important government responsibilities outside the room, but I'm convinced that the answer could only be one. I know the situation, and I know that for the sake of what's been going on so far, there's been enough cold storage and they keep coming. All the time vets, using help from different sources, these cold stores deliver. Here may be necessary, and there will certainly be, some aid measures with references in the Act, and the reaction of the state services, which is also provided for in the Act. This aid in the case of cold stores will also function In line with needs. This is not a problem which users of these cold stores have so far signalled as unfinished, on the contrary. There's an excess in some of these cold stores. In this situation, there's a possibility of maneuvering and trouble because of it, but also one I was just talking about... There are financial resources that will satisfy these needs, so that we do not see the problem here. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, it is also so that we will be this law, I hope, happily passed. To modernise through such fast acts maybe even after a month, it will not be any shame. The mere fact that such a law will be applied will be a great success. If we predicted 95% the needs to which this law will respond in the form in which it is now presented to the honourable state, it will be a brilliant intuition, a proof of great competence, and at the same time it will be sure that the law will begin to fulfil its task from the beginning. And for these 5 or 7% , such confirmed by life, we will be immediately Within a month, a week, react legislatively and supplement... I think that in a very, very small percentage of space it will have to be improved. As far as fallen animals are concerned, here is the recipe that refers on the one hand to the location The one in whose territory this has taken place must... Senator, I think the intention of leaving this is above all the fact that this is a guarantee that the dead boar will be located as soon as possible. It's clear that if this happens on a private property, it's gonna be a call to the proper services. I'm sure it's not like that. And that's a secondary matter. That this boar will be left to himself. Even if this notification goes straight to... veterinary, police, city security, etc. . Such authorities will respond immediately. As we have already proven many times, the problem of different burdens in response to ASF is always at the end of the burden on the Polish country, as is responsibility for the whole of the case. The important thing is that such a wild boar does not endanger people's health. Removing it is the most important thing, and it will happen in a non-automatic way, but instantly. And that's what's important.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have an extraordinary weakness. I like listening to the Minister very much. Well, who wouldn't like to hear that the army goes in gala uniforms with 17th-generation guns? On the Minister's mind, I will use the Triads, the Sphinxes, the vectors and the consummate. 3 years ago, the Supreme Audit Chamber announced a report on the reality of the Ministry of Agriculture's efforts to reduce the control and spread of infectious animal diseases in Poland. In the conclusions of the NIK Triad, firstly, insufficient financial support for farmers to meet the bio-insurance requirements of the Ministry of Agriculture, secondly, the failure of state services and inspections to effectively control compliance with the principles of bio-insurance, thirdly, the lack of success in limiting the spatial spread of the disease. The NIK's proposals were based on 2 proposals: insufficient financial support for farmers; a shortage of services and inspections. Looking at this triad and point, we need to ask about the vector, i.e. the real action taken by the Ministry of Agriculture to reduce this disease. If we look at the map of Poland, we see that there are no successes. The disease from the east of Poland has moved to central Poland, and now to the western one. But we have a concrete legislative proposal ahead of us. Is he really giving us some real tool, or was he, as the Minister said, prepared with great pedantria in legislative matters and written on the basis of the laws of logic? Thank you very much. And in the context of that, I have two short questions. Mr. Senator, time. What has to do with limiting the spread of diseases to criminal liability for obstructing ordinary hunting? That's one thing. Secondly, do you have any analysis of the number of these most tragic events, the shooting of people on ordinary hunting where there are no silencers? How is all this about you saying you're having a dialogue with the hunter community, and you're denying them the ability to appoint functionaries by transferring these powers to the minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u97	Thank you, Senator. I'm telling you again. We all have a time limit, because time, Mr. Senator. ..of which, being of the same generation, we are painfully convinced. It runs the same way for everyone. Yeah, that's right. I'll confirm. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u98	One last question. I hope that I will persuade the Minister of Environment or Climate to respond in writing to the Senator by editing the government's position in this regard. You don't have to encourage me because they're here, especially in Senator Kwiatkowski's statement... Such necessary answers to these very precise, concrete questions will be formulated, Mr. Senator, in writing, because only in this way can you get reliable, true and broad information, consistent with what you know in your gigantic knowledge as head of the Chamber, which you certainly know. These questions from your point of view... Maybe there were rhetorical intentions here. I hope we get out of this somehow. I am very pleased that you gave us the date of publication of the report of the NIK, which I say also as a certain obvious fact, was one of the inspirations for us, and was one of the evidence that something had to be done instantly. We referred, maybe not in everything, to some parts of this report, we said we should just do it. Of course, on certain points, I do not fully agree with him. In writing, Mr. Senator, there will be a very reliable answer, deprived of any threads of excessive pride. I'm sure we'll also document the absolute ambition and heavy money that help farmers... I'm talking about helping, that is, giving concrete, non-refundable resources, in a very large amount. It's growing all the time, from year to year. This was also the case in the last year, in the penultimate year, when Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski and I had a real responsibility for Polish agriculture. It was then very strongly speak so colloquially, but according to intentions and satisfaction It's curved. Bioinsurance was different, but at the moment we're almost 100%. About 95% at the moment. livestock holdings shall be tested for bioinsurance. We are also checking whether the previous recommendations were implemented there. We're getting to... In recent months, there's been tremendous progress here, an increase of a few dozen percent. These are situations where you are aware of what you are talking about, and we pay great attention to these tasks. I am pleased to announce to all of you that we are approaching 100%. I am talking about farms that are checked very thoroughly, very precisely in terms of bioinsurance, with respect for principles, application of rules, and also with regard to the implementation of recommendations for prior checks, indications or necessary amendments. I think in this state of affairs... Senator, please consider my statement to be exhaustive, of course with a supplement of specific questions and also detailed answers. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u99	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u100	Thank you very much. Minister, you say that the basic, first thing in the fight against ASF is the firing... Population reduction. This is the official statement of the European Union, enough for me. Reduction, good. Population reduction, right? Yeah, wild boars. Tell me whether the ministry knows the number or not. I don't know what it's called. The head of these wild boars. How many are there at the moment, how many were shot off every year, and how many were there in the ASF? That's the first question. Second question. Is the government side... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain calm, because it disturbs everyone. That was the first question. Two. Does the government provide for some financial equivalent for farms, not for those typically farmed where they are large, say, pig farms - Yeah, that's what I call it. Only for the smaller ones, for farmers who have a smaller herd of 30, 40, 50 pigs? That's the second question, and maybe that's enough for now. Thank you. Oh, I'd like to add one more question. What gave rise to the fact that the State introduced a change in the way the main hunting country was appointed into this law on combating the spread of ASF? He will not be chosen by the Polish Ministry, he will be nominated by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u101	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u102	Thank you. The question was about the head, the number of boars. Ladies and gentlemen, my answer is not humorous at all, it is actually a very sad answer. Well, in order to make the drama clear to all of us, I'm going to use the words of the song: nobody knows that. And this is the situation that brings us to the ground of the need to apply the rules that we are proposing to you for approval to adopt. Well, here we can use only some examples, comparisons referring not to imagination, but to simple accounts. Very reliable, because of the recent weeks. I was talking about this Czech case, which refers to this sudden appearance of ASF virus in a wild boar, a strange wild boar found somewhere on a dirt road, where you drive huge bumps, where you drive 15 km/h. Well, suddenly a boar was found, terribly beaten, abused, so-called. After the accident, after which no one came forward. And no one checked into a police station to get compensation for a heavy hit-and-run car... although there probably wasn't a situation like this at this speed. So this, of course, is to explain to the other services. But then we intervened, as always in such situations, immediately, very quickly, so we did what I said. A fence with a radius of 5 km, 6 km, in total over 36 km, we set up within 3 days. And that's where what I'm talking about is done. The Czech model was perfected, the model of depopulation in a limited, enclosed and, so to speak, impervious area. And what did it turn out to be? Well, we did, of course. Dear Senators, according to European Union directives, the population in Poland, as in other countries, should be It is recommended by directive, to perform 0,1 wild boars per km2. That's the population that's recommended. Of course, these various accusations are absurd, that we eliminate, exterminate, that as far as art is concerned, all of this is to be eliminated. No, the boar is now reproductive at 500%. year, so if we leave even 0.1 per km2, then of course it will be completely safe for reproduction of the species. And what did we find inside this bag in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, surrounded by a sealed grid? If you count this recommendation that it should be 0.1 boar per square mile, that's where we should find 5 wild boars. And we have found, Dear Senator, 20 times more or even better. It'll all be there, Senator. That's the question I heard from the room. It's meticulously calculated because we're in the final phase of work on the complete elimination of the population in this closed area. That's also the answer to the senator's question. This will be in writing of obvious necessity, because the entire operation is still ongoing, although it is at an absolutely final stage. In the case of a question that has been raised here for some time, concerning the assignment of the prime choice by the minister, that is, by the government, to the end, under all conditions... It's dictated by the fact that And I say it with full responsibility, I've had too many official, media statements to forget them. In recent months and years, the Polish Hunting Union has not shown such an extraordinary example in carrying out the tasks that we want to accomplish under the law and regulations in the last few months.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u103	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Filip Libicki is next.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I'm still on the domestic hunter case. First of all, so far, I understand. At least that's how I understand the conversation with hunters who came to me, and it was so that the minister pointed out this hunter's national among the three candidates presented by the Polish Hunter's Union. And, of course, here is the question of whether it is not so that you are interfering with a certain independence of the hunting government. Well, you can like hunters, you don't like them, but since this is an association governed by the law of associations that operate in Poland, I think it should have some independence. But the second point is: do you consider it appropriate? Because I understand that the situation is at the moment that it is the minister who points out the hunter's national, but the costs of its operation for the term of office must be covered by the Polish Hunting Union. Is it okay to point out to someone who then this person, this association, is supposed to hold for some time there? It doesn't seem very logical and not very fair to me. Could the Minister refer to this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u105	Mr. Senator, the fact is that we have different sources of information and positions in the same environment, that is, the hunter's environment. They also called me and called me, now more with congratulations, earlier with postulates, hunters who demanded in a very decisive way such solutions as found in the draft law, literally such solutions. And we have partially fulfilled the will of a very serious part, a very important part for us, a fair, common sense, unselfish part of the public opinion located in the Polish Łowietski Union. Your second question is, Senator. I'll take it in quotes, 'cause I've got a word for it somewhere in my resources. It's a little perverse. Because the Polish Hunting Union, with the power of what has happened, and so it is legally sanctioned, has all the goods and, without being the owner and without bearing the costs, in terms of the game has total access to them and leads them completely to their own, by virtue of the privileges given to them and made available by the State... This is total property, total freedom. He owns a huge estate, right, which we all know very well. And therefore, such a regulation that the State has the right to direct influence on the head of the union is not, I believe, the taking away of vital rights from the Polish Union of Hunters, because it does not limit the hunting economy which it cultivates, nor the pleasures of hunting. However, this is certainly nearing a time when the State will request certain necessary respect for its interests. It's also and so that's what I just said. If it is very important, the fundamental task of a state of extraordinary power, the task of a state of vital importance for the Polish state, then someone who shows a cool attitude to it, unselfish, slow, does not stand on guard and does not throw himself to save the state and the Polish economy... Well, you must have an increasing influence on this, Mr. Senator. And it will. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u106	Thank you very much, Minister, for answering the question of the Senator the birthday boy, whom I hereby wish dearly. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] Minister, you will now answer the question that Senator Benjamin Godyla will ask. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I already asked my question at the agricultural committee's meeting, only then was there such an unfortunate time that the Minister was in a hurry to vote for the Sejm. Yes, sir. To the first question, you answered partially... It wasn't me, was it? All Members had to leave. Yeah, but the first one... That's what the professor asked. I meant the head we have. Then you said a lot, a lot. Well, it's hard to tell... It's supposed to be a reduction through that shot. Well, if we don't know what the head is, then it's hard to determine what it's gonna be like. It'll be successful, Mr. Senator. But far away... How much time is this whole operation of this sanitary blast scheduled for? A year? Two? Because you know there'll be other hunts, too. How are we supposed to distinguish between going into the woods, whether it's a sanitary hunt or a simple hunt? Because also, well, we'd like to know a little bit more. And another question. What's plan B? If all this really, well, it didn't bring the expected success, although I believe that... actually, I thought it would be three years earlier. 'Cause we'd have less costs if it wasn't this special act right now, but the bill was in effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u109	Thank you kindly. Well, hunting according to hunting law and other laws are marked, there are notifications. Every hunter must also be equipped with such a pass, permission to speak colloquially, but everyone knows what I'm talking about. To participate in any hunting. So these are excellently worn in the environment and also, as I think, more broadly safe ways to do so, above all safe, because that's what this is all about. ..hunting. The question of how long it's gonna take is, well, it's like a two-pronged question. At least the answer must be twofold, referring to what you already have here. I told you. Just now, in answer to the senator's question, I was talking about this situation in the Lower Silesian Voivodeship, about this environment, about a radius of 5 km... and then the liquidation of the population within this fence. Well, if it were like these numbers show that there are 20 times more boars or dozens of times more boars, calmly counting than it should be, so let's say 0.1 boar per km2... Well, I just used a term like that: six months, a few months. Well, if that were the case... But there's more, there's more. We don't really know how many times more. I'm not hurting myself here, and I don't want to explain it, because we're all in exactly the same situation. We, together with Parliament, have started to improve this and give the basic tools to this, to set the target. The objective is defined in the European Union's recommendations: 0,1 boar per km2. And that's what we're doing when it comes to what we're trying to achieve. We are very specific about this objective, with the support of all the bodies of the European Union, including the Commission, headed by the Commission. So only in such relative terms, but very specific, with specific criteria, can we answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u110	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask the marshal, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u111	Minister, I'm going back to this article. Article 32a (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 is replaced by the following: 5 and paragraph 5. 6. What are the criteria, what will be the criteria for selecting national hunters and district hunters? Because I remind you that also the district hunters will in fact be elected by the minister, because there must be a positive opinion of the minister. That's my first question: what criteria? He doesn't have a term yet, so will he cancel and appoint himself whenever he wants to? And my second question is this... Because you didn't answer Senator Libicki's question entirely. He clearly emphasized the fact that the remuneration of the hunter's national and district hunters will come from contributions from members of the Polish Łowiecki Union, a non-governmental organization, and not from the state budget. The Minister very euphemistically said that they have wealth. However, you yourself know that the Polish Hunting Union is maintained by membership contributions, not by revenues from the sale of animal carcasses, because this is the income of hunting circles, not the structures of the association. In this connection, I ask you: how do you explain this? Because it's kind of unconstitutional.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u112	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u113	I think that, as in the previous situation, the main recipient here, of course, is, formally and not only formally, a minister who has unabated supervision of the Polish Łowiecki Union, i.e. the Minister of Climate and the Minister of the Environment. But I'm sure of one thing. According to my intentions, according to what I have presented to you here many times in different contexts, I am convinced that this will still be the case, that this criterion, of course, apart from purely substantive ones, which are obvious, and by the hunters' community itself will be very strict with regard to any nominates... Because it's a special skill. Professionality, authority here is something fundamental, authority derived, of course, from honesty, selflessness, nobility and competence. But the state must have an impact here on the application of one basic criterion. I told you what was going on here. It's about people. This applies to both domestic hunters and district hunters, which will give priority to the interest of the state in their public service, the Polish state's right. And only such persons will be worthy to sit and sit on the stool of the main hunter, and on smaller thrones in the county hunting unions, that is, as a hunter to the county. And this is the criterion that we want to apply with all our power, enforce in a very close electoral confidence, confidence understood as such jointly applied criteria, which will be the source of full acceptance. There will be no usurpation here, because it cannot be so that we will assume that respecting the Polish national interest and the Polish state's reason will be, the Senators who asked me such questions, in contrast to thinking, to the position, to the reasoning and conduct of the Polish Łowiecki Union, because we would simply insult this relationship terribly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. But I'd like to ask... Mrs. Senator, Mrs. Marshal, please... I'd like to ask. ...I just wanted to give the floor, Senator Marshal, because despite the extraordinary eloquence of the Minister, the Marshal thought he wanted to ask one more question. I'll do it now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u115	I want to ask you exactly... I want the Minister to answer this question because the Minister speaks very beautifully, but nothing concrete is there. My first question, then, is this: why are these fantastic criteria not included in the bill? Intentions and other things are not criteria. And I also asked the second question that you didn't answer to me: how does this have to be financed by NGOs? How does the Minister deal with non-compliance with the Constitution? And before you answer that, I'm going to ask you very much to answer these questions in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u116	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u117	I think that I should be understood so that these questions will have consequences in a very reliable answer, because it is also a legal question, with regard to legal acts, so the answer will have to be formulated with a large amount of pedantry, and that will happen. And I'm not going to answer this question about criteria evasively either, just openly and very honestly, and in a clear way. There are no criteria for this, for the Polish state's right, because it is obvious, and there are no criteria for obviousness. And instead of some paragraphs and some criteria, he's gonna stand before the public, against relationships, towards all of us, a specific man, a man is gonna be that record of political will and criteria, and that's the most honest answer, the only possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Secretary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u119	I, Minister, will ask you to join me in this written answer to the question that the senator asked for. You're welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First question, a little bit of history. I'm guessing four years ago in this room, we were talking about ASF. There was a pretty long discussion there. I asked in this discussion whether it is possible simply to put a fence between Poland and Belarus. At that time, it was probably only from Belarus that these wild boars came and there was a small number of outbreaks in Poland. And the answer was no. And now we see how it goes on. Why am I asking? Because I suspect Belarus is still on the bio-insurance tank. We're going to take care of our boars here, and we're going to have another one coming from Belarus. The Germans, as you can see, put up a fence, at least put up, mediaally it was visible, and no one there specially cares about various ecological movements, etc. Don't you think such a fence is necessary? Because even if we kill all wild boars infected in Poland, new ones will come to us from these directions or from those countries which, as I said, make little of this problem. And second question, very specific. Well, that's the mouth. 10b added to Article. 42 in hunting law empowers the Minister to lay down bioinsurance rules under the Regulation, which should be respected during hunting. Somewhere in the past, I read that the virus is kept in the blood, on the soil for 80 days, and in the corpse itself it can infect for four months. Well, all the more reason for such hunting, massaging and sanitation, is to prepare for it. Do you already have a proposal for such a regulation? Because the bill comes into force very quickly, actually within one day of publication.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u123	Thank you kindly. The fence you were talking about has a story. I don't want to comment on it. I don't want to comment on it. I remember, of course, the discussion on this matter. It also concerned very serious doubts about the effectiveness of placing such an installation under specific topographic conditions. And as a result, I think, more substantive decisions in relation to the whole discussion, as a result of confronting the results with the goal, with what could actually be done there, this concept was abandoned under specific conditions. But I would like to say with all determination that, regardless of this case with the German fence, which is also ad hoc... There may also be some doubts about the effectiveness of such a device, because there may always be a hole, some other situation, e.g. Wild boars are very jumpy. I didn't see that fence. I know he's being held up. Every time, as in the case of the Germans, there is a belief in the effectiveness, perfection and massiveness of the enterprise, but we must wait calmly. We need to execute this bill right now. And in my deepest conviction, we will achieve all the goals that concern success in the fight against ASF, both Czech, Belgian, German and French. We will combine the emergence of new cases with effective anaesthesia, i.e. the elimination of wild boars, because this is the case and at the same time we will make a preventive reduction across the whole country. The powers that have a law in them, and the organisational powers that you also mentioned, about the need to issue immediately after the bill has been passed many different regulations... we will all practice this, we will train in combat. It will be such a fight that, so to speak, meeting with the law and with the objectives which it aims to achieve through specific people and through specific institutions • both physical and systemic and statutory ones, because the record is also in the sociological sense of a certain institution. And that's what we're gonna do. It's perfectly clear that we're going to be in this process. Not so much to monitor... We're gonna be inside this trial all the time. We're gonna keep him up to date, not week to week or month to month, just day to day, hour to hour. We're gonna know a lot about this because we're gonna be in the middle of this trial. 'Cause that's how it's supposed to be. All this law not only gives the voivodships the opportunity to react quickly as chiefs of crisis staff, county doctors and voivodship veterinarians, everyone knows what to do, but also gives very high coordination at the state level because every voivodship and district veterinarian has its head in the form of a general doctor, a national doctor, and he has his head in the form of a minister of agriculture. At the same time, all voivodeships, of course, have their boss, who is not only in the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration the director of police services, Border Guard and State Fire Department, i.e. managing these quotas, which I have spoken about, but above all is the head of literature, as a minister, for each voivodship, as the chief administrator, chief to the voivodship administrators. So it's assured, and it's very much. I think it was thought that way... What you reported as a doubt... Thank you for this question, because it is an expression of concern. I think the way this bill describes it causes... First of all, I'm pretty sure it's all ready, done. I remember the situation in which I arrived on 15 November in Gorzów Wielkopolski at the meeting of the voivodship crisis staff, where of course it was necessary to arrange for extraordinary measures to be implemented in the maximum palette of these specific measures in the shortest possible time, those 3 days I talked about. Ladies and gentlemen, I praise you here. This staff was perfectly prepared, except for one exception, such a personal, personal one, it was perfectly prepared, it was all arranged on the role, people were rushing to work, to fight. Hence what was inevitable there, because it was necessary to fence Wielkopolska, put up a big fence, so to speak, stationary, over 100 km... But we have to add that wherever in Wielkopolska the so-called. the case, a single infected boar, was immediately created the same as in the Lubuskie voivodeship, a radius of 5 and 6 km, irregular, because the topography is different... There was one, then there was another, and immediately, in a few days, we did the same thing. And that's how it works. And the idea was that where there are obvious gaps and gaps, to supplement this from the side of the legal institutions, and where it works perfectly, to give the possibility to sanction it to work legally from the machine, because there we had to make up for certain legal gaps, to supplement it with will, decision, determination, determination. It worked out great, but there's a need for it to be unified across the country. This may be too broad a statement, but with the greatest reflection I wanted to approach the senator's intentions and say so. Thank you very much... If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, an additional question, short.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u124	Mr. Senator, I'm just reminding you that the Marshal is giving the floor. Please, the senator has an extra question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u125	Mr. Minister, just a little bit. Does Belarus cooperate, cooperate with us when it comes to the elimination of ASF? If not, then we must approach this border differently.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u127	Mr. Senator, Belarus fights ASF according to its own standards, needs and customs. But I think that at the border level of veterinarians this cooperation is... We have contact and we know that our veterinarians, those bordering or voivodships adjacent to the border with Belarus know that the fight against ASF, not even perfect so far, as in Poland, but runs according to completely different formulas and standards than in Belarus. Our doctors in the voivodships and the county know what to do so that we may suffer as little damage as possible. I don't think the Belarusian doctors have any... Of course, I do not take responsibility for my speech, so I will limit it when it comes to a certain measure of certainty. Anyway, we're looking at it for purpose. And there is no such situation here, recognized... However, once again I would stress that we are constantly working on the problem of the eastern border, not only in the case of Belarus, to solve once and for all. By the way, this law, which we are now proceding, is once again a historic possibility, because the possibility of reducing the population of boars solves the problem in the right way, in the right directions, in the right time. This bill of this problem, which the senator mentioned here in the interest of the Polish national interest, because I understand it, can solve it, it also allows the problem to be solved once and for all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u128	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Zdzisław Pupa's question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u129	Minister, I am paying attention to this discussion. I would like the Minister to clarify matters that are probably misinterpreted here. Namely, there appeared here a subject such as a pass, an entrance to the forest or a pass for a hunter. The hunter goes hunting, first of all, with ID... Yes. ...that he is a hunter, secondly, with such information concerning the authorisation of weapons, and thirdly, with a card, a permit to obtain a certain quantity and a certain species of game. And I don't get it. Will there be any further permission for the hunter to go hunting? That's the first line. The landlord's approval. The second is a subject that has been raised here, namely sanitary hunting and regular hunting. These terms were used in this room. And I would also like the Minister to explain these terms. Do you go by, for example. on the so-called. the usual hunting term is not in hunting, there is individual or collective hunting, but I use the terminology that appeared here. The hunter won't be able to shoot, let's assume, wild? Well, that's what it looks like. Because according to those interpretations that were reported as part of a minority request... I had the impression that on this hunt, so to speak, an ordinary hunter can't hunt a boar. Or, on the other hand, that a hunter can't hunt another game he's authorized to hunt. And that would be good to explain, because I think it would help to understand the issues of the bill. And the third question. I'd like to ask you something else that's important to every hunter, which is hunting ethics. Today it is difficult, respecting the game, taking care of the game and about, you can say, the development of the species, but also about certain humanitarian principles... Is this wild extermination supposed to go so far that it shoots at the pig dungeons and lead dungeons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u130	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u131	Mr. Senator, the first question about this set of documents that occupy a serious part of the backpack that the hunter has on him, and that information and your views on it... If you were the first to end this question with a question to me, if you were right, I would say, yes, 100%. You're right, Senator. And this is the answer to those doubts that you have explained along the way in a precise question and in precisely outlined intentions as well. And question three. Let us answer... because these are purely hunting issues, well, there is no possibility here at the moment that Minister. I am talking about the Minister of the Environment, Minister of Climate Affairs. So far to the end and professionally this part of the regulations and its own responsibility... These questions will be addressed to all countries, those who have asked them in relation to the law of hunting and the powers of the Minister supervising the case of the Polish Hunting Union... Answers will be given in writing because there is no such possibility today. I don't want an answer in writing because I know the answer. Mr. Senator, please... Well, if you know it, then... I'm asking because, I think, an approximation, an explanation by the minister who's in the courtroom, would allow a lot of senators to understand the bill. Mr. Senator, I ask that we stick to the formal side of our deliberations. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Does the Minister have anything to add? I have so much to add that, well, I can react Probably according to your intentions, Mr. Senator, if there's such a slogan here as extermination, well, of course I don't agree. Because, above all, we were talking about quantitative criteria here and what's left of this operation. I also refer to the practice of this effectiveness, which I mentioned here, in the case of France and Germany. There were no dilemmas like the ones you mentioned here, because it couldn't be. And everyone congratulated the German authorities on such success, as before the Czechs, of course on a completely different scale. So I, without going deeper into this matter at the moment, answer unambiguously with respect to specific examples that... Some specific criteria were applied and others were not applied. I'm also handing over my position and my own, and the government in this matter. The second question, on the other hand... I guess I didn't exactly write down your second question. Oh, I know. Here's a quote from the bill that answers the second question. I think that this answer in the form of a quote from the senator will satisfy you completely, because that settles the question. The animal's sanitary discharge shall be carried out under an order issued under the animal health regulations and the control of infectious animal diseases. This is a formula that I specifically noted here, so that it not so much sounded in general with regard to the law, but it was literally presented to the senators by law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u132	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Mariusz Gromka. I mean, Senator Secretary. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It is clear from the information you have presented today that there is no alternative to the effective fight against ASF other than the reduction of the population. Examples of our neighbour Czechs, Germans or Belgians clearly show that this is the right direction. The European Commission also recommends firing. We also know today that we can no longer wait with this decision, because the damage is getting worse, the damage is getting worse. I would like to ask if there are any estimates of financial losses. What are the losses of the state budget, the Polish economy, precisely due to ASF virus?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u134	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u135	It's also, Mr. Senator... Well, there is the same necessity here as in the case of at least a dozen questions, because this question can only be answered reliably from the position of our departments for agricultural markets and finance. And that's the senator's answer, and for obvious reasons, the public will get it. But all I can say here is that the ASF situation immediately triggers the entire avalanche of costs. It's the costs that farms bear, farmers. These are the costs that you bear in relation to the huge bio-insurance funds. They're related to this epidemic, aren't they? Those measures could be... And compensation... ...for other purposes. The damages are from the vending machine, too, aren't they? In the case of infectious diseases, this is applied legally and immediately. That's how it's practiced. So this is an avalanche of costs, very important. The second issue is contacts in trade, including those of an international nature. We're losing our position in many markets. In the case of the European Union, this trade is based on the principle of regionalisation, i.e. if there is a case ASF, it concerns a particular voivodship, sometimes even on a smaller scale we can negotiate something, but it does not apply to the whole country. There are countries with which we have basic contact, using it as an excuse. And they don't apply the principle of regionalisation, they apply the principle of stopping any commercial contacts. That is, in practice, their imports, and our exports for the whole country. And for many countries and their markets this is a very severe sanction, and thus the losses are very, very severe. The State will already receive specific information on this subject in its written calculations. I just confirm that these are very measurable, very important, very severe costs and losses. And that's one of the most important reasons why this bill is being made. Because every month, every year of maintaining this state of affairs in the case of The ASF causes that... It's enough that in one municipality or in one district it is, and already Asian markets are absolutely insensitive to any commercial coquettes on our part or commercial strategies, because simply in the world not a kilogram of pork will accept. These are situations that force us to approach this not pompously, but very practically and very coolly. I was talking about the fact that this is a priority task, from the category of those concerning the Polish reason of state and national interest. Because this situation will permanently eliminate us from specific markets, bring millions or billions of losses. As we now have exports of agri-food products worth EUR 32 billion, if we were to bet just on the pork component, it might turn out that this gap is very severe, one that can eliminate the industry from the market at all, not only foreign but also domestic, if this disease were to progress. Well, these are tragic, irreversible effects, which we must immediately give effective resistance and the ASF effectively withdraw from Poland, because it can simply threaten some form of economic disaster. We don't throw those words in the wind. I am convinced that in this vote room we will find allies and allies in power, for which I thank you in advance, because this is a story not about something that can happen, but this is the story of what is bound to happen, inevitably, if we do not set up a real dam as it is in intentions, and I am convinced that it will be in practice, this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much, Senator. I don't see any other senators who would like to ask the Minister a question. I therefore thank you very much for your exhausting remarks. I inform you that a representative of the government, in the person of the Minister, has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, by Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Wcisła and Senator Zdzisław Pupa... And because of me. Yes, sir, and of course by your Senator Gromka. I would like to open a discussion at this point. And first... He's the first one to be enrolled in the discussion... Excuse me, I am the first one to be enrolled in the further debate by the highly venerable senator Stanisław Gawłowski. Please take the floor. Honourable? Especially talented.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do not hide the fact that I have a serious problem with how to refer to everything that the Minister has just said, because the gentlest term I can think of is that he was grossly missing the truth. That's for starters. Minister, you said it doesn't apply to local governments. It's in the article. 5 the obligations of road managers are mentioned. I'll read it, then I'll talk about the data, but I'll read it from the bill you presented and I don't think you know it, and if you know it, you misled the High House. 'Cause here's the record: I'm ordering public road managers... And who's the manager? public roads? Municipality, county, voivodship, General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. It commands, for example. the implementation of technical obstacles, in particular the construction of fences or technical safeguards, or the laying of disinfection mats, and their maintenance after laying down in a condition which ensures the effective operation of the disinfectant. Minister, you will first be familiar with the bill when you come to the High House and then present it and do not mislead the High House. There's no government minister... You're the next term of office, and you're not. It's not right for you to forge any other data, either. You came here and said something like this: here's our success. You give a year and say: this year we've reduced the fires by 60 percent or so. It doesn't matter, Minister, what number are you going to list... If you were to say, since 1 January 2020, we have reduced, we have reduced, because there is no new outbreak... Well, maybe there's one thing, 'cause I think you've got a new one in Wielkopolska. There's no... And you're successful because this year, in 2020 none of them were created. But the truth is, Minister, that when you took power in 2015, there were 3 ASF fires in Poland. And how much is today, ladies and gentlemen? 300? 263. And that's because of you. 263 fires. That's what you've led to. The Lord says: an important and urgent bill, we must immediately, now, now, we cannot wait. And which is the law carried out by the High House, which is important, urgent and applies to ASF? Which one do you think it is? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Five o'clock. For five years, five sets, five times you came and said, immediately, now. You were talking about Germany, you were talking about how these wild boars need to be fired immediately, because population reduction is the most important thing. And how much money did you give the farmers, for example? in 2017 for support for bioinsurance? Do you remember the amount? Are you going to exchange that amount? He's gonna change it? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Great, then compare it to another amount. With the amount you've allocated to the civil servants' prizes in the Ministry of Agriculture and the agencies under your control. And you know what you're gonna do? You've given more for the prizes and less for the farmers. There was no money for farmers. [[Applause]] And do you know why you're saying that you need it so urgently today? So you can still have farmers so you can say, "We're really into ASF." We hear this wretched boar enters the barn, enters the pighouse, and infects these flocks. Of course it's bullshit, 'cause he's not going in there. There's a man going in there. This man needs support, he needs financial support and he needs money for bioinsurance, because it's really the only effective way to fight ASF. This is a serious problem, this is serious money. You know, it's sad that the Minister, the Minister of Agriculture, is coming to the O.R., and the simple question about the financial consequences is, I don't know, I'll write to you. Then what do you know? Why are you here? What do you know? What kind of knowledge do you have? In fact, this bill is such a mishma under the motto: we fight ASF, mommy farmers. Some farmers, also on the side of the PiS, know that this bill will do nothing. Mr Telus of PiS, rapporteur on behalf of the Group of Members, at the committee meeting, said directly: I do not believe that this bill will work. It's written in the transcript, he said: I don't believe it, I don't have that faith, you've taken many different actions. In this bill there are many very dangerous, very, very dangerous records, and they do not concern the fight against ASF. If I were to mention one good example, it would be an exemption from the requirements of construction law for the construction of tunics and laying out mats. Okay, one. I guess I can't really find any more good examples because... different people have asked. The Polish Hunter Union is a private organization. It is the members of the Polish Łowiecki Union who pay contributions, choose... By the time of the Platform, they had chosen the authorities themselves, but the PiS had already changed it to introduce the statement that three candidates had to be presented and the minister would choose. Now you're going even further, and now you're saying the minister will choose the hunter's national and really the hunter's district. And do you know when this happened for the first time in the history of the Republic of Poland, throughout the entire period of the operation of PZŁ, probably 100 years old? 1947? In martial law. In martial law. That's right, in martial law. After the introduction of martial law, the communists introduced commissioners there. I mean, the commissioners... They're gonna call each other different today. They will be called PiS-ewicze and Miesiewicze. Do you know what money you're going for? Do you know what the budget of the Polish Hunting Union is? You know that because it's easy to count. There are 130,000 members of the Polish Hunting Union. I can't remember what the annual fee is. 300 zł, circa about. 350 PLN. 350 PLN. So that's about 50 million. Yes? Is that the amount we're talking about? You're going for 50 million non-sense money, 50 million. You're going to get the money from a private organization. You have no right to do this, but you have 50 million in your head. You want the money. And who are you gonna put in there? It's just the penguins. They'll be the next ones to decompose the organization. And you say 'cause national patriotism. Which hunter are you going to force to go hunting in private? What writer appointed by you in the district will order a hunter to go hunting? No. Because if there's no authority, it won't be someone chosen by the hunters, the hunters won't go anywhere. And this guy's just gonna take a lot of money, 'cause these salaries are really... 50 million to split into a couple of guys is actually a big jackpot. In fact, it is also the fall of Polish hunting, this is the end of Polish hunting, this model that we have been proud of for the last 100 years. No matter how much we feel about hunting... This is a private organization. The question is, what are you gonna do next? Will you be interested in the Polish Fishing Union? Is there some money in there too? Why don't you attack the beekeepers? That's your mental. That's exactly what this bill says. He's even saying more... I'll be back in the army in a minute, too, 'cause that's funny, too. I can't even make fun of it because it's all serious stuff. This bill says that suddenly something that is national good, forests... I remember this moment, I think it was in 2015, when you started the action as a PiS of the State Forest Privatization Stop. You collected 2 million signatures back then. What are you doing now? You're de facto privatizing, but for your activists. 'Cause now it's gonna be a better sort. Once you've got your men brought into hunting districts, you're gonna have to go hunting for your guys, and this better sort will be able to hunt without hindrance. 'Cause who's gonna stop them? Mr. Senator, it's been ten minutes. Mr. Marshal, two minutes and... In overtime... In the second round... But you have to sign up. Of course, I can do the math. Excuse me. If I understand the rules correctly, then in the first turn there are 10 minutes, and in the next five minutes. I know. I'm just gonna finish up a thread about restricting access to the woods, and in the second part, I'm gonna tell you the rest of the story. The forest restrictions are formulated in such a way that the military, police, border guards will have to guard the freedom of hunting, that the Pole who will go to collect fleece, mushrooms, etc., will suddenly be thrown out of the forest. That's how you wrote it down. Note: you told the committee at the meeting that there is a big problem of protests that people are protesting massively. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what is the scale of this? You want to know what scale this is? Thousands or even tens of thousands of hunts are held in Poland every year. Do you know what the limit is? 1%. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, they all have the same standards. We don't connect time. I'm just finishing up in this part. That's 1%. Please, sir. This problem doesn't exist. You just want to build a chance for your elites to hunt freely. [[Applause]] I'm signing up for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u138	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill in its preamble is meant to serve the fight against ASF. At the committee meeting, the Minister said we should declare war... I guess it was. The ASF, but it's really a war declared to the wild, not the ASF. As has been said many times here, the infection is carried by people, not by wild people. And some of the data I have from science to support what I'm saying. I don't know if you know, I think you do. That the abbreviation ASF is from African swine fever, which is actually African swine fever, not fever. Because the help in English is plague. This virus is from the Asfarviridae group. It's a big DNA virus, one of a kind. There are no other types of viruses that consist of 20 walls. It's like a bullet that's got these 20 walls covered, and it's all in a hard shell. It is extremely resistant. And here different data is given... But, ladies and gentlemen, he's old, well, as the world may not, because the first infection was found in Kenya in 1910. The virus is over 100 years old. He came to Europe in 1957. So I would like to stress that he is incredibly directly resistant to all human actions, too. In frozen meat it survives 1,000 days, in dried meat and fat 300 days, in smoked 30 days, in stool 11 days, in blood 18 months. And now let's imagine, Minister, that, as you say, a lot of wild boars will die in this war, because it is necessary to reduce the number of wild boars in Poland. Some of them will be infected, some won't. And now maybe I'll get to the diagnostics. Well, to know if a boar has this disease, you would recognize it by clinical signs, but it's dangerous. Why? Because the symptoms are high fever, depression, anorexia, anorexia, skin haemorrhages, vomiting, diarrhoea. This is how many diseases we see in animals, including classical swine fever, pasterlose, pleuropneumonia, circiroza, salmonella, dysentery, rubella, swine flu, streptococcosis and poisoning with various factors. So that's not enough. We have one facility that's doing our research. These tests are expensive and difficult, because this virus cannot be investigated simply. These are methods of indirect immunofluorescence, immunoblotting, ELISA, immunoperoxidase test, PCR, this is the genetic method, the only method in which you can catch the virus. And you only have one place in Puławy where these tests can be performed. And now you have a bunch of dead boars that shed blood that should be separated healthy from the sick, because this virus is so clever that if you put a wild boar infected next to an uninfected one, it's a wild boar that will unfortunately be banned. And like I read, this virus will last a long time in this meat. How practically... These records are not in this bill, this bill will do nothing but wipe out the boars, including parts of healthy boars. And that price might be worth paying. Even though it's a pity for me every animal If the effect were to be that we'd get rid of ASF. But we can't get rid of him. In my opinion, This is due to all the scientific publications I read before today This is going to go on, Minister, and it's going to go on unbelievably. Because the best method that all scientists describe is proper prevention. If you'd given the farmers money... Because it's a pity for me farmers, actually with the kind of protection that is right now, it's enough that the infected boar will... it'll be very easy on the woods shoes, it'll bring blood. It comes to this farm. But if every farm had a mat, a security system, and you gave it the means, not to cause, in my opinion, a disaster simply because the mass of killed boars will be the source of infection. It's unbelievable... And that's why the amendments that Senator Rotnicka has tabled here are a little less easing what might happen, although what's crucial is what's not in this bill at all: a lot of money for the place where you store... the freezers, the disposals. Not a word about that. How do I get rid of it? Did you burn those millions of boars or... What are you gonna do with all this? For me, this bill is deeply underdeveloped, it is not an anti-ASF law, it is a law that can protect hunters in the part that says that a man is not allowed to enter the forest... It is not well defined what is sanitary hunting, everyone will be able to do hunting and say that it is sanitary, because there are no rules, there is no standard saying which hunting is sanitary and how unsanitary. So this bill would require a lot of work. The problem is and the problem should be dealt with long ago, Minister, because, as Senator Gawłowski said, the 3 fires made 363 fires. But if you shoot off all those wild animals... I don't want to be a bad prophet, really, I don't wish that on farmers or Poles or anyone. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u140	Thank you, Senator... Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will admit that I do not have the same knowledge as Minister Gawłowski or knowledge as Professor Chybicka, but I will allow myself in this speech to sum up all the opinions that reach me. First of all, the ASF must certainly be fought. I know this from the fact that from the most, I will say, the pig district in my constituency, i.e. the district of Wolsztyński, from the commune of Siedlec and Przemóm, came to me and local authorities, and breeders who said that with this threat you have to fight because this is a threat to the basis of their business. And there are actually a lot of meat establishments and places where pigs are raised. Does this bill have flaws, or does it not have flaws? I think he's got a lot of flaws, like... I'm gonna move on to the hunting union because it's a separate story, but I'm gonna say yes. There is such a problem that if there is a dead boar somewhere, one of the local government officials came to me with such information, it is difficult to determine who should really remove it. It is determined on whose ground he fell, etc., and at some point there is a situation that, once it is established who has it, so to speak, to put it out, it is already in such a state that there is actually nothing to dispose of. And they asked me to make an amendment. But since I don't know much about it, I talked to farmers from my constituency and my colleagues from the Polish People's Party, and yes, we are ready to support this bill. That's one thing. Secondly, here I address the media of President Kurski and President Kurski personally, whom I warmly greet from this place. If we support this bill, and Mr. President Kurski and his reporters are going to have a festival that shows that this is the opposition coalition in the Senate that is falling apart... I want to warn President Kurski about this operation and say: Mr. President Kurski, no, it is not, and even if you run all the editors under your control on this matter, it will have nothing to do with reality. I am saying this in advance, if President Kurski were to come up with the idea that after the vote on the bill, such an operation would have to be carried out. I'm taking your senators as witnesses for saying that. And finally, number three. I think sometimes it's worth listening to the representatives of the Law and Justice. And this is where we move on to domestic hunting. In my opinion, there are two elements that characterize the Law and Justice when it comes to domestic hunting. The first element is the dislike of self-government, the dislike that someone can do something alone, beyond the control of some office, state, etc., etc. But Minister Giżyński went even further and asked why the Polish Hunting Union should keep the hunter's national, whom the government appoints him, answered: because he has a lot of money. This is a criterion why it should be maintained by it not whether it is in accordance with the law about associations, whether it is in accordance with the rules, just that it has a lot of money. Well, I'd like to warn everyone who has a lot of money from this place, both private people and institutions. Okay, be careful. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u142	Thank you, Senator. And I would like the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u143	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There's no one in this room. there is no need to convince that, of course, we are dealing with a huge problem, with infectious diseases among animals. The ASF, of course, hits in particular those sectors of agriculture, which are, after all, strongly exportable. It's just that it's hard to say that this bill solves real problems. These problems need to be solved by helping farmers, and that's a little bit like... Even when you talk to farmers, you can see that today there is such an impression that the adoption of this law will solve the problems associated with infectious diseases of animals. He's not gonna solve it. We all know bioinsurance is the most important thing. If this bill is followed by a belief that the problem will be solved, then he will not be resolved, and for that we will have other problems which this law itself causes. However, this law in its philosophy is anti-government. We are talking about another law that imposes certain obligations on the local government, because it is difficult to interpret the article differently. 46, which requires public road managers to carry out certain obligations. The management of the public road is the municipality, district, voivodship. General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways is the manager only on national roads. If we are talking about these obligations, then they can be implemented in the context of all public roads, because this is the wording of this provision. What kind of problems are we talking about here? I will recall this example because I am afraid that if we adopt this law, we will meet in time and sum up the most tragic of possible deaths of hunting with silencers. Now that we're very clear... Also, representatives of this environment say they don't need I'm talking about hunters. This is a tool, so let's not put such a solution. Let's look at criminal law. Now that we're talking about the bill for the fight against infectious diseases, why are you penalizing it, you're introducing criminal liability for interfering with it, and that's the way it is. In the context of ordinary hunting, not sanitary ones? Don't confuse these issues, this entry is simply unnecessary in this act. And of course... This has been mentioned many times, and I do not want to repeat these arguments, but this law also affects certain environments. If in the legislation on these environments, in this case it is the hunting environment that transfers specific competences from an environment to a government administration, and this is not the solution that is needed to effectively fight infectious diseases. I repeat once again: you cannot fight infectious diseases in a way that can lead to the tragedy of people who will unattractively find themselves in the forest among hunters who will use silencers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u144	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To conclude my previous speech, I will refer to just a few threads. One of them concerns the involvement of uniformed services in hunting. The Minister, rightly so, noted that they would not come with the AK rifles or the equipment they have in military units, but they would have to come with their own equipment, with their own weapons and only those who have the powers of a hunter. Minister, you don't need those records in this bill. You can get them involved today. If they really want to participate, because it will only be voluntary, you cannot give them an order, they will come and hunt. But if you really bring your crew into this organization, then... he talked about it at the committee meeting of the National Hunting Council. What you're gonna do when 130,000 hunters say, "We don't care, we're not gonna be part of this, you're taking over the organization, so we're not gonna hunt?" You're not gonna do anything, you're just gonna do nothing, because you're gonna destroy this organization, and you're not gonna force people to do their jobs in any way. The record that military formations will suddenly be mobilized, sent to the front, because war, etc., is a record of a dead and meaningless, another drink that you are introducing into this bill, in fact, just to confuse people's eyes that you want to do something. Senator Kwiatkowski was just talking about the silencers. In fact, when you introduce silencers, you pose a threat to people's lives. You say you want to hunt and you pose a threat to people's lives. Because you will never be able to mark the terrain properly, properly, that is to say, place every 5 m of the plaque and say that there is a hunt there. Shot, bang, that's the information that something's going on out there. Bring in the silencers, and you'll be held responsible for the tragedy that could happen. And that's the problem. The hunters really know that. This kind of solution is only dangerous. In fact, the ASF problem is extremely serious. It's serious because it's about thousands of farmers. In fact, it's about giant money that you can't estimate. And if we really want to, and we want to take this problem seriously, then you, on the occasion of your work on the budget, should clearly indicate the amounts, and not the 8 million zlotys, but the serious amounts, allocated to bio-insurance activities. You took over services like ODR, because they used to be local government, and today they're ministerial, which is agricultural advisory centers, you have KOWR, the National Agricultural Support Center, so get them really involved in the whole education process, training on the ground, with farmers. Finance the mat, finance the chemicals that are needed to keep the ASF out of the farm. Finance your clothes. That's what you have to do. But stop telling stories, stop lying about really solving any problem. This bill is only in one part of the good, and in the others it is harmful, but even without this one part of the act, which concerns the bad, you would also manage. Do not scare Poles, let them use the forest, let them enter the forest when they want, do not privatize the forest and do not own the Polish Hunting Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u146	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of the senator... Chróścikowski. Jerzy Chróścikowski. But the hare wanted before me. Excuse me? The hare wanted before me. And he stepped down. There you go. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Zając. Joseph. Josepha, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u147	But this, Mr. Marshal, is our custom. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone thinks that ASF disease is something special, something that has just come along now, it's very wrong. Because there's been a lot in the history of this kind of epidemic. Since I live a few nice years, I remember one epidemic that completely vomited a population of small game, starting with this proverbial bunny, which used to be a lot, because one hunt shot 150 hares. The disease came and, like today, it was thought by administrative methods the disease will be eradicated. No. This disease was because no one acted in the medical field, in the veterinary field. And that's not there at the moment either, completely. I haven't heard of any band. ..and with the officials.. The veterinary doctors of veterinary professors who could say something, because only their voice could have any meaning in this matter. The rest is complete propaganda, aimed only at defending the authorities and nothing else. We need to look around who we have, and we have scientists. It's not like gentlemen in the ministry... Because I'm gonna admit it, and I think it's easy to read that I'm very nervous about my experience with the Ministry of Agriculture. What they're proposing is just gonna look like a dog's kennel, that's all it's gonna do. There will be only paper to wave, to show: we have worked here, we have done here. But we didn't really do anything. If we don't hear from the scientists Not one professor, because it doesn't matter, but a team of scientists, veterinarians. It's all worth nothing without it. And what takes your breath away is what the Minister said: that some criminal companies equipped with weapons of one generation will be released into the area. I'm not gonna say it again, 'cause I don't think we have a weapon of this generation yet. And they're gonna shoot with that muffler gun. Minister, there is something called animal ethics. [[Applause]] Hunters, hunting, apply ethics. We know when to shoot, what kind of animal to shoot. There's a selection for fat game. You don't just shoot yourself. It happened in one of my wheels, and I belong to 2 wheels, near Annopol, that 3 of the kids who just got there, I apologize, heard this slogan: shoot out all the dungeons, because if they're not there, then the boars will be gone and the disease will disappear. Well, the heights of naivety. But yes, they did! They shot four dungeons, which I think is a crime that should be prosecuted, starting with the D.A.'s office. But they've been seduced. Shooting won't do any good. No criminal company released into the field will mean anything, because only hunters know what a wild game is. If on a hunt involving 40 hunters, the same number of hunters, 2 wild boars and 1 fox fall, then because they have knowledge of the terrain, they have knowledge of the habitats of this game, they know how to do it. The wild beast is so wise that it was the wisdom she could survive. And shooting is just selective. Otherwise, it's... Well, I'm sorry, but in a man's group, I'd use a word for it. I'm clogging my ears. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It's just banditism. Because I don't see any difference in shooting wild game or not even wild game. Someday, for example. you could shoot at the dog and cat within 100 m of the house. Well, today it's just a crime and I'm signing that it's a crime. Therefore, let us leave these matters to experts, let us leave these matters to hunters. Because what I heard at the meeting with your boss, Minister Ardanowski at Sandomierz last year, that made my hair gray. You can't have ideas like that. I see men here who are wearing foresters' uniforms. They have knowledge, too, and they know what we should do with this problem, and if they can just say it... The hunters know. Hunters aren't murderers or those who walk around and watch, and when something moves, they shoot. Bullshit! Hunters work more for protection than for killing. I think if this disease isn't treated professionally and really thought out, if the veterinary professors, the medicine don't tell us what to do with it, then the rest shouldn't be fooling around. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u148	Thank you, Senator. Now please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u149	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Indeed, we have little knowledge, especially of the new senators who are sitting in this House, so I would like to return to history. In four years, as one of the previous speakers has said, this is the fifth time we've changed the bill. And I would like to point out that the problem is indeed very serious. We do not realize what the agricultural economy means. We do not realize what costs these are, losses to farmers, because farmers suffer huge losses in the liquidation of not 1 piece, but e.g. 5,000 pieces, and sometimes there's more. It is therefore farmers who are demanding that the fight against ASF be stepped up. And to be honest, you're discussing and saying that there are no solutions that help farmers. We've amended the bill many times, there's financial resources. I regret that the Minister did not say this because he should say this: there are financial resources for the fight against ASF for farmers, there are funds for disinfection, for all devices, even for fences, there are resources for exclusion from production. If the farmer is unable to maintain the holding in bioinsurance and has up to 50 units, he may withdraw production and have compensation for 2 years. So there are, maybe not enough, I'm not saying that they're enough, but there are already mechanisms that allow the farmer... Because the introduction of full bioinsurance for a farmer with 5 pigs will not pay off, it is not worth it, so many farmers give up and take advantage of the possibilities of support. This, of course, causes a great loss for Polish breeding, because there are very many small farms that are falling out of production today. In my Lublin region there are many such farms, also in Podlasie, also here, you can say that already in the territory of Mazowsze. How many meetings were held at the Ministry of Agriculture with the farmers, with us as representatives of the agricultural union, with representatives of other unions, and with you? Then we always emphasized that the first condition, which is, is ASF, which is in the wild. He doesn't come out of nowhere, he comes out of the wild. Ladies and gentlemen, we don't realize... Why are we talking about this now? I get the handwriting, Mr. Marshal gets the handwriting. This is the Sejmik of the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. They're begging us to take all the action we can in relation to the onset of this disease in the west of the country... This is a letter addressed to the marshal, to me and to many other important institutions asking us to immediately take action in this direction to secure... 35% of the production of the flock is in Wielkopolska and this Wielkopolska shudders. This is why the Marshal of the voivodship writes resolutions, also the communes write resolutions: do something about it, because that's how we... The second element is what happens when summer comes. We don't realize that farmers use... Of what? Out of this field. Who walks in the field? The boar's walking. And this boar walks up to the farm, this boar walks on the corn, on the corn, on all the other things. And what's that wild boar doing? Well, of course the farmer mows the green, takes her to the pigsty and has a disease immediately. The second element is grain, the third element of the bedding that is imported. These are problems, because these wild people walk around, and we can't even make bedding in the ASF zone. You don't realize how much danger there is to a farmer. The feed must not be used, it must maintain a long quarantine, because there is no feed at the moment, and this is the area covered by ASF. The blue zone, red. Well, these are serious challenges. Give these farmers the opportunity to reduce their population. After all, we do not demand to cut out all the wild boars, but to reduce this population and this risk. Farmers demand it, they beg us to do it. How many meetings have we had with the Minister about this? How many times have I intervened and robbed the Minister directly: why aren't you working on this western border? He says: there are actions, there is everything. Well, it might be a little more effective now, but it's been four years. If you could see how much we have fought with the Minister of Agriculture as farmers and trade unions to avoid harming these farmers... Because there were times when farmers didn't meet the requirements. Well, at first things were there, there were no sanctions. I guess 50 or 60 farms didn't get compensation. It was we who invented the way that there is a provision about cooperation with services, which allows for the so-called. a reward that can legally be paid to the farmer who helped fight the disease. And those farmers got some more compensation. And today it is the duty to register every single pig, of which farmers are also dissatisfied, because before that someone had hidden one pig and had a holy peace of mind with inspections and everything else. Today every single one has to register, today the farmer is being harassed when there's nothing there. The farmer, if he has a disease and he hasn't secured it, is being prosecuted by the D.A.'s office, by the police, sanctions are imposed on this farmer. Therefore, farmers today are trying to fulfil all these obligations, they are really securing as far as possible, but it cannot be that this boar walks around them and infects them with the terrain and they cannot grow. So that I ask the High House to support this law without amendment, so that we can carry it out. And all these comments, as the chairman of the Sejm's agricultural committee declared at our committee meeting... The point is to take action towards rapid changes that can allow normal functioning. And these resolutions, these writings that we receive here, in the Senate, from the Wielkopolska voivodship and others, say: do something as soon as possible to protect us from the development of this disease, African swine fever. Thank you, and I would like your support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u150	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Mr. Marshal, I'm still on record. You? Yes. I'm so sorry. I'm sorry. Bober, Richard Bober. You're welcome. Senator Richard Bober. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u151	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We're actually discussing a very controversial bill, a law that, on the one hand... As the chairman of the committee said, the situation actually requires that this law be adopted without amendments so that it enters into force, but we are aware of the shortcomings in this law. Indeed, Senator Gawłowski strongly stressed here and showed all these inconsistencies and all those areas that make it not really appropriate for us to bend over this law. But I believe it. And I want to give the Minister of Agriculture a chance. "Some things can be improved in the regulation. Minister, bioinsurance is really going so far. We can speed it up, yes. We can indeed speed up the issue of agreements signed for farmers by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture by the Regulation. Indeed, it cannot be that the farmer lodges an application with a voivodship or regional agency for months. They're not professionals. I'm really asking the beneficiary to submit to the county office... the one in cooperation with the county veterinarian... He goes to the place, gives one stamp, and the farmer signs a note and has a flat-rate advance paid. And that's efficiency. The same path I would like to point out with this unfortunate record about which Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski spoke, and it is really about local governments. It is also possible to indicate the source of support for local authorities in the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture from the second pillar of the second pillar, it does not look good, it is not well implemented, the funds from this pillar are not being used. You can really do this. The danger that has not yet been mentioned is that the law states that, at the request of the Minister, at the request of the voivode, depending on whether it concerns the forest circuit or the field, the marshal or the governor can solve such a circuit. If you do not specify such a wording, you may find that there will be political reasons for someone who does not like it, and for this reason you will apply for a solution to a given circuit, and someone else... As a self-government officer, I met with such situations that the wheels fought for the terrain. It's really possible for the Minister to show his goodwill and make it right. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We will indeed vote as Philip said. We will support this bill without amendment. From this point on, I am asking the marshal to make a legislative effort and start a serious discussion on the draft amendment to the Hunting Law. You just can't fix a law that bad. The Hunting Law must be rewritten, all parties must be heard so that a document is actually created that will satisfy... It can't be that a hunter is being imposed because, like one of his colleagues said, hunters will turn around. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And I would like to remind you that the Polish Hunting Union is the host of hunting circuits, pursues the hunting economy there and is responsible for it. It is realized in agreement with the districts, in agreement with the ancients or marshals in the forest circuit area, and therefore the turning away of hunters will really result in a tragedy. I believe that eliminating the vector, eliminating the boar will contribute to the effective fight against African swine fever. And I want to assure you that we're going to relieve these animals, because really, the animals that are infected are falling under very stressful conditions, and to put it mildly, in pain. It's just that this kind of action can speed things up and give us a chance... Above all, there is this economic aspect, the agricultural aspect. One of the senators' colleagues said, what's plan B? Plan B just doesn't exist. If there is no eradication of the wild population, we will actually put up a white flag and stop the production of pigs, breeding and breeding pigs in Poland, and we will go after Oder for the shingle. Exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u152	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Senators Władysław Komarnicki and Jerzy Wcisła gave speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Sławomir Rybicki and Senator Jerzy Wcisła. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be... Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Yes. There you go. Oh, no. No... Jesus. What the fuck? Well, disaster... Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Senack Izbo! I got a few such complaints here, also from Senator Chróścikowski... But you weren't there from the beginning when I was referring to financial matters. I talked about this very specifically, but without details, that is without so-called. numbers, knowing perfectly well that since a thousand times these numbers were falling somewhere in public space, it is not necessary for the thousand hundred and eighteenth time to quote the same thing that was and is very well known. I would like to say that from 2015, expenditure, all costs This includes the statutory veterinary activity, and the aid fund, and all compensation costs initially amounted to over 12 million, then almost 27, almost 100... In 2017, and in 2018, 243 million. This year, except it's not yet valued, because the last two months for statistical reasons are still being counted, it's going to be over 580 million. I had, ladies and gentlemen, a dozen tables, from the beginning as I came to you here, to the High Senate, and I didn't risk reading them all, although for obvious reasons I could, because it's easy to read numbers... And the next half hour would have come down. There was a question about the number, and I read it in such a cost-effective form, while the thesis on costs, the reason for these costs... After all, I used this information to convince the High Senate Chamber to adopt this law, among other things. for this reason, how much we will save for other purposes if the problem of ASF from the Polish economic and public space disappears. Several cases related to the last series of statements by the honourable senators. Senator Gawłowski did not spare certain offensive, depreciative, but above all offensive phrases. For obvious reasons, I'm not doing this. This cannot, for obvious reasons, be in an obvious situation in public space at all. I also caught some untrue ones, because that's our role here, so that things that, despite thousands of contradictions, thousands of proofs still function as such a propaganda, devastating conspiracy, which by someone, by enemies of Poland, can be used... You have to calmly, passionlessly, as much as you can, protest all the time. There hasn't been any fire in the country since October, thank God. And we all do, literally everyone, everything so that nothing else happens. Even or above all this resolution, which already in a few days, I hope, or dozens, including the actions of the Polish administration with a certain order and directives... She's gonna give it a hell of a chance, too. It is true that when we embraced governments, there were 3 ASF fires, but, ladies and gentlemen, about 3 too many. There should be no outbreak, no outbreak should be in 2015. Because someone else ruled and had full responsibility for Poland in 2014. That's when it started, and then it was... How much is today? These situations you left us were inevitable in this sense. Minister, do we have today... Can I finish, Mr. Marshal? Senator, I'm paying your attention. I'll ask you, I won't argue with you. I'll keep an eye on you, Minister. Proceed calmly. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a man in your crew who wanted to do this, Minister Kalemba. And for wanting to do that, he was thanked on the pretext of his own resignation. It's a drama, it's a situation that actually happened. I said some words about the financial consequences of the professor, Senator Chybicka. I'm just being so informative. The disposal will be effective. We have full information from subcontractors that whatever happens... This is going to be in some perspective. Right? It's not like... There have been questions as to how long this will last, but it is known that this process will be successful, both as regards the collection of wild boars for disposal and the disposal itself. Ladies and gentlemen, it's just that if... At the moment we still have, thank God, over 60% of the ASF-free areas. And if it had happened that this bill would have been earlier, it would have been there. This is the answer to a number of other questions. The ASF wouldn't have made it. He found himself in these places, first in Lubuskie voivodeship, then in Lower Silesia, Wielkopolska, Olsztyn, only because there was a ground there, there was a reservoir, a reservoir also understood as a place where the virus can reproduce, can perfectly settle under favorable conditions. If there had been a preventive discharge, a preventive reduction, as it had to be, even without a bill, we would have had peace of mind. ASF in Poland would not be there. I think... no offense, because that's not my intentions or ours. Listening... Ladies and gentlemen, please take this very gently, calmly, this is just a comparison which refers to, as if to a great political significance, to confidence... If someone of the views of Senator Chybicka, Senator Gawłowski or Mrs Niedziela, whom we were able to listen to hospitably at the meeting of the Senate Committee, was an advisor, please imagine such a situation of the ministries or, more broadly, the governments of these winners in the fight against the ASF, the government or the Czech, Belgian, German or French ministry, if someone had suddenly appeared and advised or wanted to decide on the strategies of these countries, would have been driven away and treated as a saboteur and traitor. These are not terms that relate to specific people. I'm talking about a hypothetical, lucky for these countries, an impossible situation. Let us treat this situation as abstract, as absurd. The bill which we present to the honourable states of the senators and which we are asking to adopt is intended to refer not within 2 weeks, but in a real, optimal time of full success in the fight against ASF. I don't think all of them... Because there were quiet speeches here. I ignore some of those who were far from professional, to understand the subject, but I do not enter into such polemics, but here it is only, Ladies and gentlemen, the intention. And I am convinced that in these most reluctant, very ideological, very unselfish statements of the state, a few of them were overcome by such a hysterical, panicky fear that we would not succeed, all of us, that this law would not come into effect, that the ASF would not actually start from the Polish state, from the Polish area, from the Polish country, to withdraw. Thank you very much for enabling this discussion, and thank you very much for the atmosphere. When these aggressive, extreme statements are fragmentary I'm sorry I even dared to notice, but it's only for this reason to express the satisfaction that they were really marginal... Even those unkind or with very many substantive remarks of your speech, I also view it as a common achievement, because this bill will be improved, perhaps not even under the influence of this discussion, which has taken place today and ends, because we have to carry out this process by political act right now and we will do so... Life will verify and it will decide, practice will decide how this law is... In my opinion, he's fine. With all humility, I believe that we have done so with you competently and honestly. And above all, very substantively. That is why I entrust this final fate to you with the hope that we will also be together in practicing it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u154	Thank you, Minister. Senator Gawłowski reporting for correction. There you go. Have I... No, no. Yes, you mentioned... Mr. Senator, you're on your way. The Minister will be staying because I understand he's going to want to answer... You're welcome. It's me half a minute literally... Up to three minutes is fine.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u155	I absolutely, Minister, tried to speak only in substance. You can even view it as a malignant element. But, Minister, I didn't insult you, I didn't insult you, and you used the terms: the enemy of Poland, the saboteur, the traitor. You know, I... You could listen to it, it was recorded, and you weren't just talking to me, you were talking to other senators who had spoken before. Horrible, horrible. This is unacceptable, Minister, unacceptable. And I don't expect the word "sorry." I really have suffered a lot of bad things from the people of PiS, and I really don't expect anything from you anymore, except one thing: don't insult me any more. [[Applause]] It's true.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u156	Thank you, Senator. Because the conclusions have been made... Corrigendum. No, no, there's no corrigendum, Minister... There it is. I've been called, please, Mr. Marshal. That'll be one sentence. Minister, thank you, you have acted, thank you very much. I promise I'll give you one sentence on the stand. Please, one sentence. It's not the Seym.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u157	I have not offended anyone in this room, nor have I had such intentions, and I have expressed myself very precisely. This meant a hypothetical situation in foreign countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u158	Thank you, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Environment to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act establishing the Polish Science Day. The text of the Act is contained in print No 41 and the report of the Commission In print No 41 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to present a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u159	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Dear guests! Both history and present times record the wonderful achievements of Polish scientists in the field of medicine, physics, chemistry, astrology, mathematics, computer science, space science, zoology and many, many others. For the world of science, the most important event for 117 years is the award of the prestigious Nobel Prize. On the one hand, it is the dream of many scientists in the world, on the other hand it is a prestigious appreciation of their scientific achievements. The initiative of establishing the Polish Science Day is an expression of great respect for the achievements of Polish scientists and the promotion of the development of Polish talents. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee at its meeting on 14 January worked on the Law establishing the Polish Science Day and voted on the amendment to the article. 1 Act, changing the date of the celebration of the Polish Science Day to 10 December, which is the day twice, in 1903 and in 1911, the award of the Nobel Prize in the field of science to the first woman in the world, Polce, Maria Skłodowska-Curie. Maria Skłodowska-Curie received the Nobel Prize in the second year after the award was established. She was also the first person in the world of science to receive the Nobel Prize twice. If I remember correctly, only half a century later two scientists, American and British, also received the Nobel Prize twice. Maria Skłodowska-Curie was a pioneer in the promotion of Poland, defended Polishness at the Sorbonne and made Poland famous all over the world, giving the discovered element the name "Polon." The change of the date of the Polish Science Day from 19 February to 10 December is a tribute to the achievements of Maria Skłodowska-Curie and all Polish Nobel Prize winners in the field of science, as well as promotion of Polish scientists and encouragement to develop scientific achievements. The date of 10 December also gives respectively more time than just a month to prepare the celebration of Polish scientists. The members of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, while respecting the opinion prepared by the legislators, have also introduced an amendment to the article. 3 concerning compliance under the applicable law of the vacathio legis period. Thanking colleagues and senators for working on this bill, I would like to inform you that after the Senate vote the bill will return to the Sejm. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u160	Thank you, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The bill was introduced by Members. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? There isn't. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is a great honor for me to take the floor on the Act on the establishment of the Polish Science Day. This is an extremely valuable initiative, which results from the huge contribution of Polish science to world science. It should be emphasized that this huge contribution of Polish science to world science has been going on for over a thousand years. We know that already Paweł Włodkowic, but earlier others, they drew from world science, but they also caused that it was developing. The authors of the bill, who submitted it in the Sejm, mentioned Mikołaj Kopernik, Jan Heweliusz, Ignacy Łukasiewicz, Karol Olszewski and Zygmunt Wróblewski, Maria Skłodowska-Curie, Henryk Rostworski, Ludwik Hirszfeld, Jan Czochralski and Stefan Banach. We know that this list is far from complete. We talked in this House about outstanding Polish mathematicians, about Banach's entire school, as well as about Warsaw and Krakow school, about Lviv and Vilnius. After all, the famous Ulam, who worked in Los Alamos in the construction of a nuclear bomb, Smoluchowski, who did many studies for Albert Einstein... That's a lot, a lot, a lot of other people. That's why this bill is so important. It contains many elements, many elements showing the huge civilization role of science. First, I would like to highlight the natural man's desire for truth, good and beautiful. It is through science that man becomes more human, seeking answers to questions about the meaning of life, the truth, the appearance of the universe, the construction of matter, and also developing many humanistic thoughts. These are extremely important matters. Today, a particularly fashionable aspect is the contribution of science to the development of the economy. An innovative economy is this branch of our social, economic and political life that determines the development of individual countries and nations. We know about the huge impact of science on the development of health care, on environmental protection. Many other aspects of the enormous civilizational importance of science could be cited. I must say that, especially in this House, it is extremely clever to say this because the Senate of the Lightest Republic has declared 2019 the Year of Mathematics and 2020 the Year of Physics. We have said, on the occasion of these resolutions, that this is not about a certain nostalgic and commemorative meaning of these resolutions, although they have an important reference to outstanding mathematicians, to outstanding physicists, but that they are also aiming to show the civilizational meaning of science, to encourage young people to follow in the footsteps of these outstanding predecessors, to respect and appreciate those scientists who in the past had these wonderful great successes. But they also have them today. It might be awkward for me to mention them here, but we know that astronomers and physicists and representatives of many other fields... For example, in the largest laboratory in the world, in CERN, the participation of Poles is huge. Hence, the importance of this law is extremely, extremely important. Senator, when she reported our committee's hearing, she was talking about this... I don't know what to call it... It's about the kind of duality that came along right up to the date. The date proposed or adopted by the Sejm on 19 February is the birth date of Nicholas Copernicus. It doesn't seem like there's any need to quote his credit here. The Kopernika revolution, something that has changed the nature of science, the approach to many areas of empirical science, also to the humanistic idea of the world... Maria Skłodowska-Curie It's also a great figure, and you could talk about it a lot. Woman, Polka, Nobel laureate twice... We also know that she was friends with Einstein, and they went to the Alps together. Besides, Smoluchowski, mentioned by me, similarly... It's all true, but it seems that Copernicus was, however, the figure that resonates in many minds. I don't think there's anyone who doesn't know about Copernicus, and probably not everyone knows he was Polish. Perhaps that's why... Who doesn't? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. Exactly. Thank you very much. So maybe it's worth it too... This, of course, is a purely academic dispute about superiority... Well, they were both great, no doubt about it. It seems that this date, which was included in the Seym Act, found the support of the rectors of academic Polish schools, the parliament of students. But I think the most important thing is that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I don't want to disturb those who talk. It's a great idea. It's a good bill. It's an incentive for young people. I also think it's worth mentioning that we've been doing a lot of work lately. Increase funding for science, budget funding, as well as investment bonds... Yesterday I had the honor of attending the award ceremony, so to speak, as part of the Leader program. Many young, wonderful people received such nominations in connection with the implementation of their research. And I have to say that reading titles, names of research that these young people do... It was just unbelievable. It seemed to some titles that it was impossible to deal with such things at all. I am thinking here and health care, and certain materials, but also various major research projects. Therefore, in full support, expressing the joy that this law is, on behalf of a group of senators, we have submitted a proposal for this law without amendments, which I very, very much encourage all of you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u162	Thank you, Senator. Did Senator Jazłowiecka come forward or not? Yeah, yeah. Yes? Good. I would like the floor of Senator Dorota Jazłowiecka... Danuta. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u163	Professor, thank you so much for your comment. I'll admit that I agree with your statement that thinking about the future maybe we shouldn't give so much meaning to sentimentalism. Hence, our decision to change this date and to honor our present scientists and future scientists the date that is related to the Nobel Prize. Scientists who, as I said, dream of receiving this award. And those who receive it are delighted that their professional and scientific achievements have been so highly assessed. And I must say for sure that, I think, because we have a lot of young talents that we talk very little about, which we show very little, even though the world is taking advantage of their achievements... I'll replace three here. I'll start with the youngest. 3 scientists from Poland Anna Kumierczak, Kinga Panasiewicz and Jakub Rewardski It was also distinguished in the prestigious, but slightly less prestigious, Intel International Science and Engineering Fair competition among 1 thousand 500 students from all over the world in terms of zoology, medicine and health and biochemistry. They were not discouraged by their lack of equipment for school studios. Helped access to knowledge, helped friends, teachers. I will exchange Professor Maciejewski, who received the prestigious Godin Award for innovative neck organ transplantation. He saved me. We all remember that story. Six-year-old Timek, giving him a chance to live a normal life. And they put you in charge of this award, and recommended it to the American Society of Reconstructive and Microvascular Surgery. I will mention to you Professor Anita Oilek, who performs fetal surgery, very rarely performed in Europe, operations that give an incredible chance for development and for a better life of the child. I will name Mrs Olga Malinkiewicz, who discovered a substance called perovskit, who discovered a method of producing solar cells, thus revolutionizing photovoltaics. I will mention Prof. Wolszczan, who discovered the first new planet outside the solar system and was nominated for the Nobel Prize, or the company Astronika, which prepared a sampler in the form of a cylinder, so-called. A mole that is used to measure the heat stream inside the planet. As we remember, the mole was involved in the mission of an unmanned probe to Mars. It's just a few names. In fact, I could stand here probably a few days and list scientists who showed their great achievements several, several dozen years ago, but also those who show their achievements today. And it seems to me that the reception on December 10, which is most often the day of the Nobel Prizes... It's a day that's more into the future, more about the future. It is a great promotion for young talents, an incentive to strive in their research, in their work... although in Poland it is very difficult for them to carry out these talents, carry out their work due to lack of resources, lack of well-equipped laboratories, lack of well-equipped studios. How often our Polish talents work abroad and are successful abroad. Perhaps this is the day and this is the day's association with the Nobel Prizes... Perhaps this will give our young scientists a good chance of reaching for this reward in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u164	Thank you, Senator. Senator Józef Zając reporting for discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On the list of scientists of the highest rank of Polish origin, which the professor quoted, I ran out of Hoene-Wronski, someone who is valued in the international world of science as one of the three largest Polish scientists. The second point is that, according to statistics, one of the most frequently cited names of scientists in the world is the name of Polish scientist Stefan Banach. That's something to remember about, because today there's no technical student who doesn't know. Well, except for the legends who it is and what they have done. All you have to do is add that the Lviv mathematical environment has prepared all the math necessary for the construction of a nuclear and hydrogen bomb, and the hydrogen bomb patent has been obtained by one of Banach's students, Ulam. Senator, I think it's out of date that we have such poor, poorly equipped labs and that there's no money. There's money for science today and there's labs, really. It's worth a look around the different universities. If they unpacked everything, then you can see that these labs are. And one more thing. The sad thing about science, Polish science, is that these greatest achievements of today are generally carried out abroad. It's worth a look here at Director Ziółkowski. How our grants work, whether it's just reports, or whether they actually produce results. As we can hear, probably the fifth in turn, 16-atomic carbon material was made or constructed by a young man from Warsaw, but in New York. And that's something we need to think about in science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u166	Thank you very much, Senator. I see the discussion is developing very nicely. I hope we're done on Monday. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Can this cut her short? No, I'm not gonna cut anyone short or cheer. That's just my point, the guide's point. Senator Joanna Sekula, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just gonna say one sentence. Why did we start this discussion today? Another bill was filed as a parliamentary project. It is clear from today's statements that such a discussion should take place in the scientific community long ago, for example, so that young scientists, rectors, senates... can stimulate such an initiative among young scientists, students. Today, this knowledge of Polish scientists Both contemporary and historical It'd probably be a lot bigger. Why was Copernicus chosen at the initiative of Members? You'd think he was the only scientist they knew. Since we are to promote modernity, we are to look to the future and not constantly focus on the sentimental finding of our roots, we have proposed precisely the date that connects the past with the future. Nobel is what every scientist dreams of, and in order to get to it, you have to go through different fields of science. Young scientists are applying for this award. This is the one and only opportunity to be in the pantheon of the biggest ones forever. Besides, when we asked the representatives of the Ministry at the committee meeting how they imagined the organisation of such a day of study, it turned out that the whole programme was already prepared, even though the project was actually parliamentary. Once again, unfortunately, we are dealing with fiction, and the government's initiative has been put into the hands of Members. This is another bill that we're looking at in the same way. And I would very much like to have the Prime Minister be handed over to end this strange legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u168	Thank you, Senator. And I'd like the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm in corrigendum mode, because the senator has given in to a certain narration, despite all the facts. In my speech, I clearly said... I read a passage from the justification of this law, listing 10 outstanding scientists. We know that drawing up such a list is extremely difficult, that this list is very long and it is extremely difficult to adopt criteria. Therefore, giving in to such emotions and using the narrative that Copernicus is simply offensive because it is the only one whom the applicants knew. And let us avoid such expressions in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u170	Thank you, Senator. The discussion is closed. Great. Is the government representative... Oh, of course, there's still... For the record, you have submitted a legislative proposal in writing to Senator Kazimierz Wind. Yes? A group of senators. A group of senators. Yeah, but I need to put someone in. Mr. Senator Kazimierz Wind with a group of senators. So we're closing the discussion. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposal? No, thank you very much. Thank you. As a legislative proposal has been tabled, I ask the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 47 and the report "Print No 47 S." I now ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Halina Poora, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please. I'm not on the Legislative Board, Mr. Marshal. But you're the rapporteur. You're the rapporteur, Senator. And I would also like to remind you that you are the representative of the applicants. And I thought I'd be asked to speak in this mode. You're welcome. You're in a double role.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A group of senators introduced a draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy. Today, at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, I presented this proposal, which I received in the vote a majority of 13:11. I ask you to adopt this resolution, and at the same time request that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u172	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the representative of the applicants. Senator Halina Poora is also a representative of the applicants. Are there any questions for the senator? There isn't. There isn't. Then I'll open the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The resolution we are talking about concerning the Upper Silesian Tragedy already has a history, but not a parliamentary one. For the first time, the Sejmik of the Silesian Voivodeship adopted a similar resolution in 2011, and then a slightly more extended resolution compared to the first one. In 2012 the Sejmik of Opole Voivodeship. When this resolution was taken, I was in the Sejm of the Opolskie Voivodeship, I was the councilman of this Seym, and then both to the original text and to the one who was accepted as the final one, I had fundamental comments. Unfortunately, these comments are repeated here, and they also concern the text that is proposed to you here. Therefore, Mr Marshal, I will make amendments to the draft resolution, but I would like to describe earlier what these amendments are based on. The first question is genesis. The resolution in the Silesian Voivodeship was taken at the request of the Silesian Autonomy Movement, supported by the Platform and PSL co-organizing with RAŚ, while in the case of the Opole Voivodeship, the Sejm of the Opole Voivodeship, this resolution was adopted at the request of German and cooperating minorities, managing the Civic Platform and PSL voivodship. That's what sources look like. Unfortunately, the text of this resolution has some shortcomings. We tried to remove these shortcomings in such an editorial team that dealt with its original text, but failed to address these deficiencies. Does it have pros? Of course, yes. The most important advantage of this resolution is that it mentions how the Soviet Army actually entered the pre-war territory of the Republic of Poland. This is particularly important today when Mr Putin and other Soviet politicians are trying to distort history. The information about what it looked like in reality will certainly be our useful contribution to this historical discussion. But this draft resolution doesn't say everything. First thing, basic: no context. The question is very simple: is the reader of this resolution Let's remember that she can be read by a person who doesn't know the story well, also abroad. Will he find out where the Red Army came from in Upper Silesia in January 1945? Well, we all know, but if you were trying to ask that question, you'd know that the answer isn't so obvious to everyone. I will tell you more, ladies and gentlemen, if the text of this motion for a resolution does not contain the words of World War II, this is worrying to me. Not once. Check it out. What do you mean, those Red Army guys just came in with those pepese? This is of course the result, or actually one during the events, one of the events during World War II, but in this text It's gone. One amendment therefore complements this historical context. Incidentally, when a resolution of similar content was taken in the Seyms, then it was the peak of Erica Steinbach's activity and the environment associated with it. Ladies and gentlemen, such preparation of a certain historical fact, certain events in context perfectly fit the narrative, as it is explained now, Mrs. Erica Steinbach. Why? Because it is she who claims that World War II began from the moment of the expulsions, export of Germans to Germany, to the German state, Germans living in Upper Silesia and Opole region. Well, I hope we don't want to enter into this type of interpretation of history or some historical understatements. The second feature of this resolution, in my opinion unacceptable, is the sharing of victims, is the preparation of one group of victims, a group of victims of the Red Army's activities during its passage through Polish territory, and noticing others. And there were also patriots who, by this Red Army, and then by encaeudians and the Polish communist authorities, were imprisoned, imprisoned in camps. AKs, just Polish patriots who did not agree to the new occupation. Then why are we only preparing one group, and we're not talking about others? I can't understand it. Not a word... The next issue is not to include other victims, not just the Red Army. Ladies and gentlemen, during this time, in the second half of January, concentration camps, German Nazi concentration camps, among others, were evacuated. Auschwitz, all branches of the camp in Auschwitz. How? In stripes, in frost, on foot, in the so-called. Death marches. This is the end of January. Why do we notice one group of victims and not a word about the other? It's also the 70th anniversary. I don't know. And finally, basically, in my opinion, the subject range, we're talking about Upper Silesia. Upper Silesia is currently within 2 voivodships, Silesian and Opole... Partly. ...but before the war it was divided, part was within the borders of the Polish state, and part within the borders of the Third Reich. What does that mean? This means that the Red Army, in quotes of course, first liberated Upper Silesia, the Polish part, and the inhabitants of the Upper Silesia survived the occupation twice, because first in September 1939. I will remind you of the famous parachute tower in Katowice and the Boy Scout Fight And first they were tortured, exterminated by the Germans, I am talking about Upper Silesia of Poland and then by the invasion of the Red Army. The occupier has changed, and methods, practically the same, longer exports only. What about Silesia Opole? That's what I call the western part of Upper Silesia. Before the war, he was within the Third Reich... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Mr. Senator, let me remind you that you have a minute left. Just reminding you. I'm the one who would've used those five minutes right away, 'cause I think I'm the last person to speak on this case. Ladies and gentlemen, before the war, Silesia Opole was within the Third Reich. Its inhabitants did not feel war until January 1945. What about before that? It was from the Silesian Stone and the Lower Ligota that the planes that bombed Wieluń took off. Both airports lie in the current territory of Opole. There were farmers who were forced to work for those displaced from the General Governor or prisoners of war. We are concerned about these victims, but should the Senate of the Republic really start worrying about the victims of the Third Reich who elected Hitler democratically in 1933, including them? Ladies and gentlemen, the question is... because they're people, too. The question is very simple for me and in a moment you will be quoted Not my upheavals, but a quote. I'm going to prove that we shouldn't do this thing. And that is why the minimum of what we should do to heal this draft resolution is, in my opinion, the adoption of amendments, which I am about to lay down on the hands of your marshal. I will read to you what the ratio of the local population was: most Germans who felt war only in January 1945. To Polish prisoners who fought in the Warsaw Uprising. About 1/3 of the prisoners from the Warsaw Uprising passed through the camp. It was a POW camp in Lamsdorf, present Łambinowice, about 25 km west of Opole. This is about the relationship not of those who escorted them, but of the civilian population. The quote comes from memories of then 15-year-old soldier of the Warsaw Uprising, prisoner of Stalag 344 Lamsdorf, Witold Konecki, nicknamed Sulima. This has been published in the quarterly "Acovec" specially listed in the 2010 issue. Listen carefully to who you want to celebrate as well. No comment. The march from the railway station is about Lamsdorf just to a distance of 5 and 6 kilometres of POW camps took place at a fast pace among the hostile shouts gathered on the sidelines of the German population. Local women and young people from Hitlerjugend ran to prisoners, beat, and fell, spittin' and lying. The escort was pulling better-looking suitcases and packages from the captives, throwing them through the fences to the fences by the road. I left my backpack and blanket on this road, and since I completely fainted, I saved myself with a cup of water purchased for $20 from a woman standing on the side of the road. I think we'd give such a cup of water. It's free. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u174	Thank you. Senator Halin Poor has also spoken in the discussion. You're welcome, Senator. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u175	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I think that in the families of everyone who lives in Upper Silesia, there were such stories. We cordially invite you, show you what it really looked like, how it was going, what was going on, how the front went twice and how the population was persecuted. 'Cause I don't think there's room for that today. I'd also like to say one thing. Mr. Senator's amendments are trying to change our resolution into a resolution about all the victims, and we wanted to commemorate a historic episode called the Upper Silesian tragedy, an episode about this and not another area. If the senator prepares a draft resolution on all the victims who were certainly many in different areas, then, I think, all the senators will also commemorate these victims. We believe that writing the Senator's amendments will cause this resolution to be about all the victims, not about the Upper Silesian tragedy, not about this particular event. All I'm saying is that when it comes to these people's testimonies, by 1989, they were even afraid to mention it, even in the family. When the deportation center in Radzionkow was created, it was to make an exhibition... There's a few things in there that were stored. These people, when they came back from the scene, they were throwing everything away on the way out. They were afraid to bring anything, to bring them so that their families would not be exposed to what they had. The Upper Silesian Tragedy... This year's 70th anniversary. In almost all cities... In Bytom there will be a reconstruction of the massacre in Miechowice, a new plaque will be unveiled, Bishop Gliwice Jan Kopiec will perform Holy Mass in the church in Miechowice. On Sunday, January 26th, in the Cathedral of Christ the King in Katowice, His Excellency Archbishop Victor Skworc will make a sacrifice in behalf of all the persecuted, oppressed in the Upper Silesian tragedy. The Silesian Philharmonic has a concert dedicated to the victims of the Upper Silesian tragedy in the evening. We're talking about commemorating this episode. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u176	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. Since there was a request for an additional report, which was submitted by Senator Poor, for the committees to draw up an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting, this is the proposal I make. If I do not hear any objection, I will consider the Senate to accept the motion. Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation. I would remind you that this project was introduced by Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. It is included in print no. 32 and the committee's report In print No 32 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union on a draft resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation. This resolution is entitled to object to the lying of history by the authorities and politicians of the Russian Federation and to the deterioration of Russian-Polish relations. On 10 January 2020, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union for consideration at first reading. The committees at their joint meeting on 16 January 2020 considered, at first reading, the draft resolution submitted by the applicant, amended it and requested that the Senate adopt a uniform draft resolution on opposition to the lying of history by the Russian Federation authorities and politicians and the deterioration of Russian-Polish relations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u178	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and the applicant. The applicant was also Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka. Are there any such questions? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! I have a simple question. Why didn't you decide? I'm talking to a group of applicants for the project that we proposed, about the content that the Sejm adopted? There was a consensus, an acclamation party. Here, I suppose, there would also be consensus and acclamation, because the content is unambiguous. This would have a double expression: not only that here, and here would be a consensus, it would also be a consensus between the two chambers of parliament, which have a slightly different political leadership, at least in the case of most of these chambers. It would be a double consensus, as if it were squared. Tell me why you didn't want to do this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u180	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u181	Dear Marshal, Mr. Senator! On my own behalf, I will answer why the project is so shaped. Yeah, for a very simple reason. The fact that this project was introduced before the Sejm even began to consider its project. It was a project submitted much earlier to the marshal's staff. That's the answer to the first question. And the answer to the second question, already on behalf of the committee. There are several reasons. Of course, the resolution of the Sejm is very important and very important. And it was very good that Parliament reacted to what Mr Vladimir Putin, President of the Russian Federation, said and how... Besides, he's not the only one who did it. The committees have taken several points into account. The Senate may adopt a resolution, the content of which will determine what strengthens the message towards the Russian Federation. Both one and the other Chamber of Parliament disagree with what they have lied about. Nevertheless, each chamber has this message slightly different. Besides, what's most important This is what we drew attention to in the course of the debate and this amendment was also included in this text, and the element of crimes, especially crimes in Katyn, has been added, because in April it will be 80 years since this crime, and in the resolution of the Sejm there is no such element. It is important to pay attention to this element as well. Today, after the committee's deliberations, there have been further slanders towards Poland. It seems to me as a rapporteur that all the more so... Because this message is more detailed, it emphasizes more what the Soviet Union did in 1939, in 1939 and 1941, when he was basically an ally of Adolf Hitler. The point was to make this message sound like a Senate position, an autonomous chamber. Thank you very much. I hope I've satisfied the senator's curiosity.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u182	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions? I don't see any further reports. Thank you again. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that this is a very good initiative, that we are taking on this appalling position, especially since this lying, false, propaganda narrative, which has been disseminated or presented by President Putin, finds its resonance in the world. I am very pleased that the reaction of political circles in Poland was clear. I am also pleased that in this case a detailed statement by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has been issued, which in itself is a very good document, defining not only the state of historical knowledge, but also the fields of manipulation, forgery, misrepresentation of history. We are dealing with a really dangerous situation, because, as it is said in Russia, it is easy to predict the future, but the hardest thing is to talk about the past. You never know how power in Russia will interpret past events because it is subject to constant reinterpretation and change. And that is why we must be particularly vigilant in this area, all the more so as the propaganda possibilities of the Russian Federation's international influence are large. Therefore, this false message about the latest history can be used as a weapon in the political and ideological struggle on the international stage, all the more so as very important events are approaching, concerning at least the 75th anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz-Birkenau camp, and we know the context of the Russian party's participation in these events or in those celebrations that will take place in Israel. High Izbo, who worked with Hitler and on what principles, is well known to us here in Poland. I'll remind you of Alexander Bregman's character. It was a journalist, a publicist, a World War II participant, an emigrant who wrote a great book called: Hitler's best ally. Study on German-Soviet cooperation (1939/1941). This author was completely silent in the times of the Polish People's Republic. This book of his was completely censored, but its copies were sent to Poland. The fact that the hunger for knowledge on this subject was huge is best demonstrated by the fact that 18 so-called ones appeared. editions of debitless editions, i.e. editions in the second circulation operating in the 1970s and 1980s, in the times of the Polish People's Republic. What millions of Poles experienced during the Soviet occupation on the eastern flank of the Second Republic, which was occupied by the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, how the deportations of hundreds of thousands of people and what the Katyn genocide looked like... We are talking about this in a nutshell because, as we know, this tragedy happened not only in Katyn, but also in Starobielsk, Kozielsk and other places of execution. The relationship between Stalin and Poles was practiced in 1937 during the so-called. Polish operation, when two autonomous republics were liquidated, one in Ukraine and the other in Belarus, and more than 100,000 people were exterminated, were murdered. It was then that the method that was used in Katyn was rehearsed. They were shots in the back of the head on a massive scale. High Izbo, this resolution is very important. I support here the proposal that you have just tabled by Prof. Włodzimierz Biernacki, which changes the content of the draft resolution and proposes to adopt it in the version submitted or adopted in the Sejm. It's not that any of these texts are better or worse. But it's about doing things over and over and over and over and over and over and over again. The Senate is dominated by the opposition, and the Sejm is dominated by a government majority camp, but the point is to speak with one voice in the international arena in this matter. Although these texts have a very similar tone, we should not allow such a situation that exegesis will be carried out that there will be an examination of differences in these resolutions. That is why I am asking the High House for such reflection. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u184	Thank you very much. You asked Senator Wojciech Necessary to speak. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u185	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short. Well, at first I was also in favour of it being a single resolution, and for it to sound in 2 chambers, but this sejm is burdened with this flaw that it does not mention the Katyn tragedy. I believe that this year, in the 80th anniversary of these events, and in the face of what we want to get The point is to resist this media and propaganda attack on the part of the Russian Federation, it is worth recalling this, to mention it. I think that this resolution should be followed by our initiative, also strong, concerning the commemoration of this eighty-year anniversary, the anniversary of the visit... I wanted to say on inhuman land, the time has passed, maybe we should not say that anymore on this land where it happened. And I think that's why our draft resolution is more complete, it's more appropriate and, although these texts are really similar and, you can say, they're both good, but I am definitely in favour of supporting our draft. He's in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u186	Thank you very much. I am in a double role at the moment, but I must submit a request for a deadline for committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. And since they've been... There are no votes. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union in order to prepare an additional report and to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear any objection, I will consider the Senate to accept the motion. I don't hear any objections. In view of the legislative proposals and the need for a meeting of the Senate committees, I am holding an hour's rest, which is until 8 p.m. I ask the senators to return at 8:00 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u187	High Izbo, I would like to present a communication on committee meetings. The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted at the Senate meeting for the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy will take place 10 minutes after the announcement of the adjournment in room 217. That's the meeting of the Legislative Commission, room 217 at 7:17 p.m. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases will take place immediately after the announcement of a break in Room 182. That is the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment It should start right now in room 182. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport will also take place immediately after the announcement of the break in room 176.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u188	Ladies and gentlemen... Mrs. Marshal, I have a formal motion. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u189	Since three committees will be sitting at the same time, I am afraid there may be such a situation that there will not be enough... No! That's often the case.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u190	And then... There's no... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And one more announcement. There are also four committee meetings. A joint meeting of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union will be held after the meeting of the Legislative Commission. It will take place in room 217. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Louder a little.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u191	Mrs. Senator... After the meeting of the Legislative Committee... Senator, what was the formal request for? Because you didn't have time to tell me. Mrs. Marshal, my colleagues have told me that I can rest assured that all the senators will be at all the committee meetings. Thank you very much. I'll do it again... I withdraw the motion. I'm calling a recess until 8:10 p.m. And I would like to inform you that the vote will take place after the break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 8:10. 20.10. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 10 to 20 minutes 11]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u192	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next fourth meeting is scheduled for 5, 6 and 7 February. The order of this meeting will, of course, be provided to you by electronic means. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 46. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Krzysztof Słoń, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a proposal from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of Senate committees. On the basis of the article. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the committee shall present the following draft resolution. Resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on changes in the composition of Senate committees. §1. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. 13... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like your attention, please. ...pt. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses: Senator Janusz Gromek from the Committee on Science, Education and Sport; Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki from the Committee on Science, Education and Sport; Senator Antoni Mężyda from the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad; Senator Józef Zaając from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union; Senator Wojciech Ziemiak from the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. §2. Senate of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to art. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, selects: Senator Janusz Gromek to the Committee on the Environment; Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation; Senator Antoni Marzyda to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation; Senator Józef Zając to the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad; Senator Wojciech Ziemiak to the Committee on the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u194	Thank you very much, senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I state that 98 senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 48 for, 0 against, 51 abstentions. [[Voting No 5]] The resolution has been taken. We're back to processing the point... In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 29 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour, no votes against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act and the Corporate Income Tax Act. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act "Senator's Print No 40 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Note: Amendments 1 and 2 must be voted together. Amendments 1 and 2 exclude from the catalogue the tax statements made available by the National Tax Administration related to the economic activity carried out only for 2019, and not, as the Act in question wants, also for the following years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 51, 47 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 7]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety... We are voting on the bill with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour, no votes against and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax and the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals. We are returning to the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws to facilitate the control of infectious animal diseases. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is printed in print No 28 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Józef Łyczak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the end of the joint meeting, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on the Environment decided to adopt a law amending certain laws in order to facilitate the eradication of infectious animal diseases without amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u196	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u197	I uphold minority proposals and ask for them to be voted out.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u198	Thank you very much. Let me remind you that during the discussion, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Sławomir Rybicki and Senator Jerzy Wcisła presented their conclusions. In addition, the minority rapporteur was Senator Rotnicka. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the committee's motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 49 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 9]] The bill's been passed. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to facilitate the fight against infectious animal diseases. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, there are still important votes ahead. Minister Skurkiewicz, I remind you, we're in the Senate. So what? I'm asking you to be serious and focus, because we're still gonna... Mr. Marshal smiled. I'm trying to be... You know, without a sense of humour in the world of politics, you could die. Exactly. It's a nice atmosphere. We're gonna have some more votes. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the law on amending the Waste Act and the Law on maintaining cleanliness and order in municipalities. A meeting of the Environment Committee took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 33 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u199	The Commission requests amendments 1, 4, 5, 7 and 9 and amendments 3 and 11.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator still want to speak as an applicant or not? No. Thank you very much. Let me remind you that during the discussion you presented Senator Zdzisław Pup. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Note: Amendments 1, 4, 5, 7 and 9 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendments 2, 6, 8 and 10. Amendments 1, 4, 5, 7 and 9 extend the deadlines for reporting in 2020 and give the correct order to the changes being made. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Bravo! Amendment 3 introduces mandatory alternative forms of record-keeping in the event of a failure of the IT system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 95 for, 3 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 11 limits the retroactivity of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 98 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Waste Act and the Law on Cleanliness and Order in the municipalities. We return to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act on the Establishment of the Polish Science Day. The meeting of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is in print No 41 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u201	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The members of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport decided to reject the proposal for a law without amendments and voted in favour of Amendment No 1, amendment to Article. 1, i.e. for replacing the words "19 February' by "10 December' and "2' in Article. 3 the words 'on the date' shall be replaced by 'on the expiry of 14 days from 'the date'. Thus, we have ensured compliance with the law and the introduction of the vacathio legis into the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? Let me remind you that during the discussion, Senator Margaret Budner, Senator Małgorzata Kopiczko, Senator Michał Seweryński, Mr Kazimierz Wind, Mr Józef Zając. In addition, the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport was Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka. I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed to the vote on the proposal of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 48 for, 50 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 aims to change the date on which the Polish Science Day is established from 19 February to 10 December. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's... For, for... No... But not so nervous, not so nervous! I'm reading again. Amendment 1 aims to change the date on which the Polish Science Day is established from 19 February to 10 December. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voting No 15]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]] Oh, come on. Gentlemen, count the votes! Count all the votes. [[Applause]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 2 introduces a 14-day period of vacathio legis. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. After carrying out... I'm sorry. The votes were 97 senators, 49 votes against, 47 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to focus and keep your conversations quiet. The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Corrections. One of them was rejected. One amendment. I want to be precise. Yeah, one was rejected, one was accepted. Of course, Senator, one of the amendments that was voted on. Senator Skurkiewicz is a bit hyperactive today. He's been in the Seym for four years, so... That's what's left of him. Forgive the High House. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. Let me remind you: Amendment 1 was not accepted, Amendment 2 was accepted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 98 votes against, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the Act establishing the Polish Science Day on 19 February. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 47 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Halina Poora, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u203	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, three amendments were considered, which were not approved by the committee, and therefore I ask that the draft resolution be adopted without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u204	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the senator, Mr. Jerzy Czerwinski, want to speak again? No, thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to raise such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the provisions of the draft, the printing... No, no... No, no, no, no, Good. There was no conclusion. Yeah, but the Senate didn't... Even though they were rejected by the committee. Good. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, print No 47 X, and then on the adoption of the draft, print No 47 S, in full, as amended by the amendments adopted, if adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 46 votes against, 51 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 47 for, 51 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 47 for, 51 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 20]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's... And the last page? He knows. No, no, this is the last page. We're voting. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We are voting on the draft resolution. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 95 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 21]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 75th anniversary of the Upper Silesian Tragedy. We return to the discussion of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and obliged the committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. This report shall be published in print No 32 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanka, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u205	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have carried out additional reading on the proposals submitted during the discussion. The committees did not support any request and request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution on the words of the President of the Russian Federation, contained in print no. 32 S.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u206	Thank you very much, Marshal. Does Senator Włodzimierz Bernacki want to speak again?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I warmly ask all senators to consider this possibility, which I pointed out in the amendment, to make one voice from Poland, the voice of the Sejm and the voice of the Senate, so that these two voices are identical. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u208	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? [[Talking in the O.R.]] No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, in print 32 X, and then in the adoption of the draft, in print 32 S, in full, as amended by any amendments adopted. Voting on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled by Senator Vladimir Bernacki. Note: Amendments 1 and 2 must be voted together. We proceed with the vote on Amendments 1 and 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 47 for, 52 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] I state that all the amendments have been rejected. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution - print no. 32 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 95 for, 4 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution to object to the lying of history by the Russian Federation authorities and politicians and the deterioration of Russian-Polish relations... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'm saying we're exhausted... They got it wrong, they got it wrong... Can't you do a resummation? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I want reconnaissance. With an amendment, it's best...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u209	I would like to make a motion for the vote to be readmitted because I thought it was a vote on the next amendment, and I voted as if it were the next amendment. I'm just... There are four of them, and I'm one of them. We are, of course, in favour of the position proposed in this resolution. That's why I'm asking for reconnaissance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u210	Who is voting in favour of a motion for resummation of the vote? I'm voting, but I didn't vote... Turn on the razor, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Button. Button. Turn on the button, please. Who's in favor of a resummation request? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Push! Don't stress out, Senator. Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted 91, 4 against and 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Here we go again. Just give me one more second of focus, please. The request for resummation has been accepted. We're coming again... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Concentrate! ...to vote on the draft resolution to object to the lying of history by the authorities and politicians of the Russian Federation and to the deterioration of Russian-Polish relations in their entirety. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voting No 25]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much. In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on opposition to the lying of history by the authorities and politicians of the Russian Federation and the deterioration of Russian-Polish relations. By the way: please bear in mind that we are in the upper chamber of the Polish Parliament and the focus on voting is absolutely necessary. It is not the council of the commune, with all respect for the commune council, nor the student council, only the Senate of the Republic of Poland and such mistakes can have far-reaching consequences. I would like to ask you to concentrate during the deliberations and especially during the voting process. I'm saying we've exhausted the voting order. No, it's the KRS. I know, take it easy. Don't be nervous. I'm about to announce a 15-minute technical recess, and we'll proceed with the technical preparation of the courtroom, the urn, and then the selection of two members of the National Judicial Council. Dismissed until 9:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 20 minutes 45 to 21 minutes 00]] Please take your seats. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the selection of senators for the composition of the National Judicial Council. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 187 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 point 3 of the Constitution and Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 The Act of 12 May 2011 on the National Judicial Council of the Senate elects 2 members of the Council from the senators for a period of 4 years. I'm bringing it in, according to the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (2) of the Senate Rules of Procedure, to hold a roll-call vote on the subject, i.e. signed by the name of the cards. I would like to inform you that the following candidates have been submitted to the members of the National Judicial Council: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. The CVs of the candidates are included in print No 23. He addressed proposals concerning the applications submitted by the Senate Marshals to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The committee's report is contained in print No 23 O. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Potoj, to speak and to present the report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 17 December 2019 the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions gave a positive opinion on the candidacy of all senators, namely Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u212	At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Before adopting a resolution on the selection of members of the National Courts of Justice, the Senate may invite candidates to provide explanations and answer questions of the senators. Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik? There isn't. No. I don't see any calls. Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski? There isn't. I don't see any calls. Do any of you senators want to ask Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski? There isn't. We therefore proceed to vote on the election of the members of the National Judicial Council. I would like to inform you that according to the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (2) of the Senate's Rules of Procedure has requested a roll-call vote, i.e. signed by the name of the cards. The Senate shall adopt a resolution on this matter by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. For the roll-call vote, I appoint the senators of the secretaries: Senator Mariusz Gromka, Senator Jerzy Wcisła and Senator Alexander Swede. In a moment's time, the appointed senators will hand out their names to the senators. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Listen to me. The senator can support up to 2 candidates. A card with the name of each candidate should be marked with one The card will be considered invalid in cases where more than 2 candidates are supported, the non-signing of the "x" mark by the name of any candidate, bet at the name of the candidate more than one "x" mark. Once the ballots have been filled out, the senators will put the cards in the ballot box in alphabetical order. The session will then be adjourned, during which the senators will calculate the votes and draw up a roll-call vote. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I would like to ask your senators to be present during the announcement of the results of this vote because of the possibility of further rounds of voting. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to hand out the ballots and the senators. It's about filling out these cards. I would like to remind you that the name of each candidate should be placed next to the name of each candidate, but only 2 candidates should be supported. The name of each candidate should be put in the name of the "x" at the discretion of: either in the grille or in the "counter" box, or in the "x" grille. The vote will be considered invalid if more than 2 candidates are given support, no sign is given by the name of any of the candidates or more characters by the name of the candidate. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did all the senators receive the ballots? Not yet. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did all the senators get the cards? Everyone. I ask Senator Secretary, Senator Mariusz Gromka, to read the names of the senators in alphabetical order. And I ask your senators, after reading their names, to put in the ballot box filled with roll call cards. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u213	I'm reading senators. We will begin with Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Now, Senator Plura... Good. Senator Marek Plura, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Here comes the urn. You've lost your speed. Next up: Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Paweł Arndt, Senator Vladimir Bernacki, Senator Halina Poor, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk, Senator Richard Bober, Senator Jacek Bogucki, Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka, Senator Marcin Bosacki, Senator Krzysztof Brejza, Senator Margaret Budner, Senator Jacek Bury, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, Senator Alicia Chybicka, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Senator Grzegorz Czelej, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Dorota Czudowska, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Artur Dunin, Senator Viktor Durlak, Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Senator Eve Gawada, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, Senator Benjamin Godyla, Senator Stanisław Gogacz, Senator Mieczysław Golba, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Thomas Grodzki, Senator Janusz Gromek, Senator Mariusz Gromko, Senator Jan Hamerski, Senator Jolanta Hibner, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, Senator Michał Kaminski, Senator Stanisław Karczewski, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Bogdan Klich, Senator Andrzej Kobiak, Senator Maria Koc, Senator Magdalena Kochan, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Marek Komorowski, Senator Wojciech Necessary, Senator Tadeusz Kopeć, Senator Margaret Kopiczko, Senator Waldemar Kraska, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, Senator Maciej Łuczak, Senator Józef Łyczak, Senator Richard Majer, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, Senator Robert Mamotkow, Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Ewa Matecka, Senator Antoni the Man, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Krzysztof Frost, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, Senator Stanisław Ożog, Senator Andrzej Spider, Senator Janusz Błucherz, Senator Marek Pęk, Senator Wojciech Piecha, Senator Aleksander Pociej, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Janina Sagatowska, Senator Joanna Sekuła, Senator Michał Seweryński, Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Senator Krzysztof Elephant, Senator Lydia Staroń, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, Senator Alexander Swed, Senator Rafał the locksmith, Senator Ryszard Świlski, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Kazimierz Wind, Senator Jacek Włosowicz, Senator Alicia the Hare, Senator Joseph the Hare, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, Senator Wojciech Zietniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u214	I'm calling a 30-minute break. Please stay close. If the protocol is prepared earlier, we will call on you to announce the results. Again, I ask you to be present during the publication of the results due to the possibility of further rounds of voting. I hope that's not the case. Gentlemen, go and count as soon as possible, because that's the expectation of the senator's office. [[Adjournment from 21 minutes 15 to 21 minutes 46]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the selection of senators for the National Judicial Council. I would like to inform you that the senators have finished calculating the votes and drawn up a roll-call vote. I'll read it. On 17 January 2020 on the election of the members of the National Judicial Council. Designated by the Senate Marshal to hold a roll-call vote Mr Senator Mariusz Gromko, Mr Senator Alexander Swed, Mr Senator Jerzy Wcisla They state that 99 votes were cast in the roll-call vote on the election of the members of the National Judicial Council, including 99 valid votes. The absolute majority of votes required shall be 50. There were 47 senators voted in favour of Senator Rafał Ambrozik's candidacy, 51 against, 1 abstention. The candidacy of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski was voted by 53 senators against three senators, and 43 senators abstained. 51 senators voted in favour of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski's candidacy, 41 senators voted against, seven senators abstained. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski gained the absolute majority of votes. [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of members of the National Judicial Council. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a second, please. The Senate has chosen Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski to join the KRS. Congratulations to the senators. Mr. Senators, please approach the president's table. I'd like to give you a resolution on your choice. Bravo, God! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Just a few more statements. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the third Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The content of the statement may be matters relating to the implementation of the mandate... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sit down, statements yet. ...and it must not concern matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Yes. Senator Marcin Bosacki. Sit down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a statement, signed by 50 senators, in defense of your marshal against a lying chase, but in fact in defence of the seriousness and good name of our entire House. We, elected by the people of the Senators of the Republic of Poland, express our solidarity and our full support for the Marshal of the Senate, Professor Tomasz Grodzki, and condemn the lying campaign against him from the day of his election. We condemn unsupported any credible facts of slander, provocations, or even attempts to bribe Marshal Grodzki in order to obtain testimony that denigrates Marshal Grodzki. The organized and massive attack on the marshal, run by state television paid out of taxpayers' money and one of the special services, is similar to the worst practices before 1989. Despite the long-standing presence of Tomasz Grodzki in public life, the attack on him was launched on the day when the marshal was elected, so he must be treated as an attack on the entire Senate of the Republic of Poland and as political efforts to change the outcome of the elections, carried out through state structures. Marshal Tomasz Grodzki has our unfailing trust and his close support. We encourage other senators to sign this statement. [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u216	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's speech is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers of Mateusz Morawiecki. Dear Prime Minister, According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [6]. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland is the Council of Ministers conducts foreign policy of the Republic of Poland and only the President of the Republic of Poland, as a representative of the State in external relations, in the field of foreign policy, cooperates with the President of the Council of Ministers and the competent minister of the Republic of Poland. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3rd Constitution of the Republic of Poland. No other Polish body, institution or office without your permission or authority is therefore entitled to conduct, in quotes of course, its foreign policy on behalf of the Republic of Poland. Unfortunately, in recent times, we have observed disturbing attempts by the Senate Marshal, Prof. Tomasz Grodzki, to violate this constitutional order. The attempts of Mr. Marshal in the international arena, the foreign visits that I have observed, as well as guests from outside Poland officially accepted in the Senate, entitle me to state that Mr. Marshal Tomasz Grodzki deliberately tries to take over the competences which Polish law does not grant him, in particular the Polish Constitution, and thus violate the constitutional principle of the threefold division of power, as defined in the article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this constitution. The qualified form of these constitutional delicacies is the introduction by your marshal of unauthorised persons and foreign institutions into the Polish legislative process. That was the case, for example. during the work of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Law amending the Law on the system of common courts, the Law on the Supreme Court and some other laws: invitation of the Venice Commission to evaluate the Act before the end of the legislative process, admission to participate in the work of Senate committees of non-Polish citizens, visit of Mr Marshal to the European Union in order to consult the text of the Act with representatives of the European Commission. Dear Prime Minister, do you share my assessment of the unlawful attempt by your Marshal to conduct his own foreign policy? Isn't it time for you to file an article? 192 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland requests the Constitutional Tribunal to resolve a dispute between the central constitutional authorities of the State? That's what Art talks about. 189 constitutions. Specifically: whether the right to conduct foreign policy of the Republic of Poland, including the possibility to participate in the Polish legislative process of non-Polish citizens, is entitled to the Senate Marshal or foreign policy of the Republic of Poland is reserved for the executive authority, i.e. for the Council of Ministers and the President of the Republic? With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u218	Senator Krzysztof Brejza will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u219	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! By way of a statement, because I did not get an answer to previous questions during the debate on the so-called. The muzzle bill, I'd like to say that...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u220	Mr. Senator, allow me to remind you that the statements must not concern the laws pending at the current Senate meeting. Then it won't be about the bill. Excuse me, sir, you need to change this statement. This will be a statement... And to whom? And give me who you're directing them to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u221	The statement shall be addressed to the Minister of Justice. The Polish judicial model was developed in the 1990s by means of many laws, created among others. by the Government of the Election Solidarity Action. I'd like to say that the KRS Act itself, even though it was The idea of the KRS itself was based on the demands of the NSZZ.Solidarity, of course, at the end of the 1990s. The law itself, which is the backbone of the functioning of the judiciary, i.e. the Law on the system of common courts of 2001, was created in a large part by the environment of Minister Ziobra, after all in the parish office. Minister Lech Kaczyński. And for the Supreme Court Act, which has also been subject to very intense criticism from the Ministry of Justice in recent weeks, in 2002 the Minister voted personally, as well as most of his political environment, the politicians of Law and Justice. So that drawing a narrative of some post-communism, a system, a caste that has grown around the judiciary over the years, contradicts the facts. The facts are that even if Prime Minister Kaczyński supported the Act on the National Courts in 1989, in 2001 he supported the Law on the System of General Courts and in 2002 he also voted in favour of the Law on the Supreme Court. So much for the statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't have much experience making statements, so I'm gonna direct this statement to your marshal and the Senate. In this statement, I would like to refer to the words of the previous speaker, Senator Czerwiński, who has already left the High House. The senator has serious doubts about the participation of the Senate Marshal, representing the High House at various international meetings, in contacts with parliaments, including the European Parliament. I would like to know the rules of the meeting of Marshal Karczewski. with President Lukashenka. As far as I know, he is not the head of the Belarusian Parliament; I am already overlooking the function of... how democratic states treat him. If such a question arises, let us begin by explaining things that actually took place in a not too distant history. I remember that during all these years the Senate marshals, and the Sejm, also actively participated in various international meetings with ambassadors, with diplomatic corps, with representatives of parliaments of different countries. So this is a matter assigned to the marshal, but in the event of a meeting with Lukashenka it is indeed extremely questionable. So I'd like an opinion on this case and your marshal, and the Senate Office. Yes, such matters are worth explaining. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-17-senat-03-3.u224	Thank you very much, senator. There are no more statements. There are no messages either. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the third Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The third session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] Thank you very much. [[End of meeting at 22 minutes 02]]
