ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u1	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I request a recess and a convening of the Seniors Convention to complete the agenda for draft laws to be processed and, yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, were removed from the agenda. Today, our expectations are very simple: increasing expenditure on health care by 20 billion, introducing clear, clear rules for helping Polish entrepreneurs not to cut jobs, and Polish workers would receive at least a minimum wage regardless of what employers work with, benefits for all those who have to stay with their children, because schools are closed and children are 8 years old, and finally real help for entrepreneurs, i.e. At least 40,000. For an entrepreneur, not a funny 5,000. Evil that they'll have to pay back. You have promised dialogue, cooperation and that we will try to find common solutions. Once again, instead of a big shield, we have a soaked sheet of paper, which is so hollow that you're already preparing further corrections. There's no shield. This is a bureaucratic set of rules that are designed to make real aid more difficult. The instructions for their operation will occupy several hundred pages. Take an example from those countries that really help entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's fight for jobs together.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u2	Thank you. Mr President, I would like to clarify something. Mr President, these three proposals were removed yesterday, but today at 3 p.m. 12, at my request, after consulting Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, a committee meeting took place and the first reading of these projects took place. So, are you continuing your request for a recess? It hasn't happened yet, I'm told. No, there's an adjournment on the committee, and it's gonna go on. Good. Are you withdrawing your request for a recess? Yes. Okay, thank you. Then, with a formal proposal, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u3	Dear Marshal! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. Point 1 and paragraph 3. 3a of the resolution of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland Rules of Procedure of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland I submit a formal application for a break in the meeting of the Sejm in order to allow the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance to be convened and to join the first reading of the draft law amending certain laws relating to the maintenance of employment and the level of remuneration for work. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard many words of encouragement in this Chamber, words that would encourage the opposition to cooperate constructively. I don't hide that even some of us believed it, but reality is completely different. Not only does the Left's proposal and others fall off the agenda of the Committee on Public Finances, but the meeting without any formal or informal substantive conclusions is interrupted. Meanwhile, Poles and Poles are waiting for the law that the Left presented, a law that, among other things, was. provides for a crisis benefit. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u4	Mr. President, I'm sorry. The Member did not listen to what I just said. This project is being processed today from hours. 12 at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Mr President, there is an adjournment at the committee meeting. I spoke personally to Marshal Czarzasty, informing him about this at about an hour. 10. Mr Henryk... I'm filing a motion. But the proposal is no longer valid, because the committee has been operating since hours. 12. There's an adjournment at the moment. All right. The Commission will continue its meeting. This is another request for the same, so I ask you to listen. Mr Szczerba, from room 102, had already tabled a formal proposal. Formal conclusion, here you go. I hope it's different. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u5	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to supplement the agenda with a new point. This point is the dramatic situation in permanent residences of people who are independent due to age, illness or disability. Today we will part, today we will conclude our sitting, while the situation in social assistance homes across the country, in Drzewica, Niedabyl, Tomczyce, Koszęcin, Jakubowice, Skarżysko-Kamienna, Psarach or Warsaw is a dramatic situation. It's about people who are really locked up, they're infected people, along with staff. These are hundreds of people already. We must have today, your marshal, the Prime Minister's information and the family minister about what to do in these situations. You can't leave these people on their own for Easter. There must be mechanisms, there must be procedures, there must be access to tests (the bell) for social workers in these institutions. Thank you. Mr President, I would like to draw attention to one thing. This is the third day of the Seym. There was no such conclusion yesterday. You are making a proposal for a agenda that I cannot complete because the proposal is irregular. Therefore, please tell me whether you are withdrawing your request for a break or whether I should put it to the vote because this proposal is simply irregular. Your Marshal, I understand that the proposal may be irregular, but the situation is dynamic and there are new cases of infection every day.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u6	So there's a request for a break, sir. Okay, then we are voting on the request for a break, sir. I will put a request for a recess to the vote, but before we vote for a recess, I will check the quorum. Your marshal, I've filed a motion. But my conclusion. You haven't heard him yet. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll check the quorum in a moment. I would like to ask all of you in this Chamber, outside the plenary room and all of you who are connected with us remotely, to press any button to confirm the quorum at today's sitting. You're welcome. There's no transmission on the Sejm's website. It's just on YouTube. We want to see the number of Members participating in the deliberations. There are 443 Members present, i.e. we have a quorum. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, a request for a break has been made - only for a break, because the second part of this request was irregular. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Something's not coming in. Oh, now it's working. It's okay. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 207 was behind the break, 233 against, six stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. The Public Finance Commission has submitted a report on a government draft law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus and on a parliamentary bill on the creation of a true anti-crisis shield and on the amendment of certain other laws, print No 332. Your marshal, I volunteered. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Mr. Marshal Zgorzelski. Formal conclusion, I understand. Yes? Yes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u7	I ask your marshals to announce a recess and call upon the Seniors' Convention to give us a chance to come to the finance minister's deliberations. High Izbo! In a moment we will be listening to the report of the finance committee, which will actually result in various budget expenditures. Whoever's heard, whoever knows where the finance minister is, invite the minister to the High House. We heard from the President of the National Bank of Poland that we have unlimited amounts of cash. When Members of the opposition propose to introduce a state of natural disaster, we hear that we would have ruined the state budget. So from an elderado to a ruin one step. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Where's the ghost minister? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, we've already voted on the request for a recess, and I'm not calling the Convention. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance: I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u9	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the examination of the government draft law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus, print no 330, and the parliamentary draft law on the creation of a true anti-crisis shield and on the amendment of certain other laws, print no 324. Following a discussion at first reading, the Sejm sent both projects to the Public Finance Committee. The Commission has started working on these projects at an hour. 20, and ended before hours. 4 a.m., but the discussion on these two bill projects was very substantive, very carefully the projects were analysed. During the committee's work, the government project was adopted as the leading one. Several dozen, nearly 100 amendments were submitted to the project. Some of the amendments were accepted, among others. amendments which freed this draft from the provisions on changes in system laws. Only those provisions which were limited to solutions intended to mitigate, or directly linked to, the pandemic period, the effects of Coronavirus and the economic effects of the epidemic remain. Solutions from the parliamentary project were also adopted: three articles, practically entirely, with modification, with the consent of the applicants and authors of the project, of course. Finally, the committee recommends that the draft in print report 332 be adopted. At the same time 21 minority proposals were submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u10	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Rosati, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u11	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! We are witnessing a pandemic crisis, we are witnessing an economic crisis that is getting worse, but we are also witnessing a state crisis. This crisis of the state you can see in very many areas. The situation in hospitals, generally throughout health care, is very dramatic. We receive hundreds, thousands of signals about how difficult the situation of medical workers at the moment is, what are the enormous shortcomings in hospital equipment, personal protective equipment. All of this is conducive to the further spread of the epidemic. These are very serious matters. The local authorities are asking for help, the companies are asking for help. All this shows that the government's actions so far simply do not meet expectations. They do not meet expectations, among others. because the government has adopted a way of working, which unfortunately taunts the best principles of legislative work and government in difficult times, in times of crisis. We are dealing with a terrible practice when the government throws laws in the Sejm, each of which consists of 100 and 150 pages, and gives us 24 hours to process them. Yesterday we had another example of a law to help entrepreneurs, but in fact in a huge part of it is a set of purely procedural rules concerning communication, proceedings, while in terms of helping entrepreneurs, helping workers, helping the economy, you can count on the fingers of one hand the records that bring financial relief to the economic economy in the crisis. I already mentioned yesterday during the discussion that the scandal is that we are investigating a law that changes 60 other laws. It's just an omnibus that has changed the weirdest rules that often have nothing to do with what we should be doing, that is, fighting a pandemic and saving the economy. Among the special jewels that we managed to find during these nights, is the record concerning the Polish Łowietski Union, where the dates of elections of the Polish Łowiecki Union authorities are shifted due to the epidemic. That's very interesting. We supported this record, even though, of course, it does not have much to do with what we should be doing. There have been strange other inputs that relieve mobile operators of certain obligations, repealing the obligation to have an environmental opinion, etc., etc. We had the impression that various strange particular interests were being carried out on the occasion of this law. Of course, we couldn't look into it with sufficient care, because there wasn't time. We worked, as the President said, until 3 p.m. 4 a.m., but there's still a big risk that there's a whole bunch of records in this bill that are just harmful. But most importantly, the help that this bill was supposed to bring is simply not enough. You have rejected all of our amendments, including the most important ones, ladies and gentlemen. I'll remind them again. We want 20 billion PLN for health care. That's 1%. GDP. If we are to think seriously at all about catching up with European countries when it comes to the share of health expenditure in the European Union, we must do so. And there's a time when health care needs money the most. This is a matter of extending ZUS contributions to all micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We should not discriminate against companies in this category. All these companies need help. Thirdly, it is the provision of welfare benefits also for parents who have children up to the age of 15. Finally, fourth, quite obvious case, medical personnel tests, weekly tests. That I can't really understand, Prime Minister, explain to me why you refuse to allow this record. You're saying there's no money for these proposals, so I want to show you some very clear ways to get that money. Quit some megalomaniac investment projects and focus on what is really important for Poland. In addition, there is European money and stop practicing anti-European propaganda because this is the action that causes (the bell) that in the Kremlin is applauding. Prime Minister, don't go this anti-European road. [[Applause]] Kremlin's expert.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u12	Thank you, sir. You will speak with Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15, remotely. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u13	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I would like to present a position on Parliamentary printing no. 332 containing a report by the Committee on Public Finance on two projects concerning the protection of de facto health of Poles today, but also the situation of our economy, the economic situation of many Poles. Indeed, as the President pointed out, the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance was turbulent, it was long, while many MEPs and MEPs are feeling very unsatisfied about this work. A leading government project has been made - a project which, as the majority of the votes point out, is not ambitious is a project that is not in line with the expectations of many employers today, many workers. I also regret, as a representative of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, that very few good ideas were used during the work, which includes our project. I keep counting, I will tell you honestly - and my vote at the end of yesterday's work was also proof of such good will - that you will be more interested in these really good ideas which were presented yesterday in full by Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Mr Stanisław Tyszka. These are really good, ambitious ideas that will certainly serve our economy well, they will protect jobs, and that is really what everyone should really care about. I will point out, for example, the most important of these postulates, which contained and contains the design of a true anti-crisis shield. We are talking about support for all employees of the minimum wage, with an accent: for all. We are not divided into better and worse, and unfortunately it is difficult to get a similar impression in the case of a government project. We are also talking about support for all entrepreneurs through the request of the Polish Coalition of voluntary ZUS. We're talking about loans of $50,000. for companies to save jobs, with the possibility of redemption when jobs are maintained by this entrepreneur. Finally, in contrast to the government project, we are talking about the Liquidity Fund financed by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego for all entrepreneurs, and here without restrictions, because it is impossible, by offering aid, to condemn entrepreneurs to bureaucratic barriers. We are also talking about exemptions from PIT and CIT, also without unnecessary formalities, without unnecessary problems. For these solutions, High Izbo, Poland must stand. We've heard so much about a balanced budget. Today, this rhetoric has already died. According to very careful estimates, very cautious forecasts in Poland at the end of 2020 we can deal with about 2 million people who are unemployed. This, High Izbo, is yet to be cost to our budget, to our economy. Today we cannot afford to sentence 2 million Poles to unemployment benefits. Today, every zloty spent on preventing this avalanche increase in unemployment is a zloty that will de facto save the budget in the future. We are in the process of working - at second reading - on this bill. Really with good will we still offer good solutions, which in our bill is very much. We are hoping for greater openness on the part of the Sejm majority. Today there should be no conflict, there should be no division into majority and opposition. Today there is a crisis on Poland, and this really requires agreement and agreement, without prejudice, and working together on good solutions. The coalition of Poland (The Bell) offered a lot of these solutions in its project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u14	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left, has the floor. Your Marshal, these are the amendments we're making.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal Zgorzelski called here the figure of the absent finance minister. In fact, we've been wondering, in the cockroaches, how this gentleman, because we don't doubt it, has a last name. Perhaps it is our fault that we do not well enough remember the names of all the high officials of the state, but actually under this appeal we also sign ourselves: it would be good if the Minister of Finance appeared in this Chamber, appeared before the Poles, and said what the state of public finances is. Marshal - I address Marshal Zgorzelski - I think there is another important figure missing here. I mean Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, almost Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government, who piloted and strongly encouraged everyone to support the previous act on COVID-19. The law that we are currently discussing during the second reading is an important complement to and extension of that initiative by Minister Emilewicz and her, which I note with concern, your marshal, is not in this Chamber. Too bad, we regret it, but maybe that's gonna change. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During yesterday's debate I formulated four criteria for a good rescue bill for the Polish economy. Let me remind you of that. This law, in my opinion, should act quickly, should be simple, generous and not have negative side effects. I have the impression that an important part of this bill is one big side effect. A significant part of the bill is devoted to the revision of dozens - literally dozens - of legal acts, which in any way refer to the crisis situation that we are dealing with today. An example is the amendment of the Civil Law Tax Act, which concerns cryptovalut taxation. Yeah, yeah, ladies and gentlemen, cryptocurrencies. This law, which we are debating today, makes another exemption from civil law tax in the case of sales and exchange of cryptovalut. Please tell me what this has to do with the fight against the effects of Coronavirus, with the economic consequences, which this crisis devastates Polish companies, which destroys the lives of millions of Polish families. Is this really a topic for diwagitation in the Parliamentary Chamber, in the Public Finance Committee? The regulation of the Minister of Finance, which is devoted to taxation, or rather to the absence of tax on cryptovalut, expires on 30 June. If you want to continue to exempt crypto-February trade from taxation, change this regulation to the Minister of Finance, and do not engage in this High House and do not obscure the field of view, do not obscure the area of affairs. In order to show how much you obscure the way this law is written imprecisely, I will state that the famous article. 15 of this first law on economic aid in connection with the coronavirus bears connotation - note - zzzzx. In the old text of this bill you can find this on page 113. This is proof of some extraordinary legislative mess. Let us not expect that entrepreneurs to whom this law is addressed will understand if they are lost in this numbering and in this nomenclature by the legislators themselves, as happened tonight during the proceedings of the Committee on Public Finance. The Left, your Marshal, has prepared a package of 11 amendments that I would like to make to your hands to ask you to take them into account. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u16	Thank you. I now ask the floor of Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The law that has been presented to us, so-called. Shield 2.0 is actually a patch sewn only a week later for what was supposed to save the Polish economy, but unfortunately it will not save it. This is a mockery of the intelligence of Poles, it is a mockery of Polish entrepreneurs, it is also a mockery of lawyers in terms of the legislative quality of the whole project. At first, we were looking forward to the project. Let me remind you that during the consultation with the Prime Minister, for which you yourself are The Prime Minister invited us, we were promised that we would have at least 1 day - 1 day, as we asked - to familiarize ourselves with the projects before they went to the Sejm. The project was on the pages 20 minutes before the planned session of the Sejm. It's been shifted by another hour. We have a continuous translation, actually the work of the Sejm in recent days is such a chaos that it is hard to expect from this Sejm any well-written law to come out of this Sejm. And I would like to believe that the Prime Minister's law firm and the relevant ministries have a slightly greater order in the preparation of these regulations, although their editorial work does not indicate that. Today, the committee worked on this in a nervous atmosphere until early morning, an atmosphere of remote work, during which Members had a problem with the correct vote on the proposals and the correct submission of amendments. The Confederation has prepared more than 40 amendments to this hole, paper, bureaucratic crisis shield. We are proposing the same amendments, sensible amendments that the government partially recognises, because we find real gaps in this project, but then it does not want to vote on our amendments, but only to report them as its own. Well, that's an exceptional little thing when we find some real mistake in the project, aside from its assumptions, with which we disagree, but when we find political errors, the government declares otherwise publicly and otherwise. later, because of the apparently messing up of the project, it would really be appropriate to accept our amendments. We also make an important amendment in the package of these amendments, which concerns a real gap in this project. The government shield does not in any way protect the interests of borrowers and lessees. We make an amendment to make it mandatory for 6 months of credit vacations from leasing instalments, from loan instalments, without any additional charges, without any additional adverse additions to the contracts to which the borrower is being forced at the moment. We hope that the government will lean on the interests of Poles, real interests, and will not deal with, as today, once again printing on the front pages of the newspapers of virtual amounts of 200 billion. After all, every reasonable person knows that without amending the budget it is absurd. You haven't activated any 200 billion. Thank you very much, and I'm handing over your Marshal of Corrections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u18	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u19	Ladies and gentlemen! It's not a shield. 2.0, it's not even a functional beta version. It's just a file of notes of a heated crisis staff that the natural disaster caught again without their pants pulled in. So I've got a better title for this. Let's call it a big improvisation. It's gonna sound good and it's gonna be good. People haven't gotten through the 170-page manual yet, and you're already releasing two. I understand that next week will be version 3.11, then XP, Vista, etc. In a serious country it looks like someone wakes up the prime minister in the middle of the night and says: Prime Minister, there is a disaster. What kind of disaster? Suppose it's a tsunami. This is the seventh shelf, please open the blue binder and implement the procedures. And the Prime Minister goes to sleep on. What's going on with us? We're just having a nervous run, a legislative panic, because the government's development plans for 2020 and 2025 were supposed to be okay, and it's not here. So now we're writing all the laws on our knees. I'm trying to imagine what it's gonna be like when we have a war. Then we'll be able to determine quickly too. It's just that I can see how we're quickly adopting a specialty on the supply of the front in the event of war or amending the law on the pursuit of a soldier's profession. Amendments to the ammunition certificates and the approval of rifles. It turns out that you need to have a special license for tanks, and we didn't anticipate that this couldn't be done now, so we're making a quick amendment, the amendment comes into force. There's a message coming from the front: what about armored vehicles? Oh, dear, we forgot about the vehicles. And again, the Sejm, the Senate, the President, the new amendment, we're flying and so on. That's how it's gonna look. And this is an accusation of all states, because you had time to deal with, I don't know, such important regulations as the VAT on doughnuts, depending on what is in them, what area of the dining establishment should be occupied by windows, how to fight the lottery receipts. How many pages of tax legislation have you all produced in order to squeeze as much out of the economy as possible when this economy somehow worked (the bell), just so that it turns out that when the economy ceases to function, you have no money, no reserves and no regulations prepared? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u20	Thank you, sir. Finally, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u21	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the report in print No 332 on the draft law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Ladies and gentlemen! The anti-crisis shield began a few days ago. According to the information presented yesterday by Minister Maląg, the interest, especially for companies, is enormous. Of course, the situation is changing, it's dynamic and it looked completely different two weeks ago, three weeks ago than it looks today. At that time, probably a significant number of Poles were hoping that maybe two weeks, maybe three weeks, and the pandemic would weaken. On the other hand, it is very clear that we already count on the prospect of at least three months of pandemic operation, and it is not certain that this is the end. Hence this extension, a very important government proposal to extend aid to entrepreneurs. This new law proposes among others. extension of parking benefits. It is estimated that PLN 4 billion to PLN 8 billion will be spent on this. Exemption from ZUS contributions - covered by a much larger range of companies. Expansion for medium-sized companies, i.e. those employing up to 49 people. Of course, we remember about this first solution, that up to nine people also function. Some adjustments and numbers of insured persons are also made, which are among the employees. We're removing juvenile workers. They don't actually work in companies when there's no school. Therefore, many entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs, will benefit, i.e. they will enter the threshold of nine employees. An extremely important solution, which is very little said, is loans to save jobs. Of course, it wouldn't be a big deal if it was just a loan, but it's a loan that will be cancelled if jobs are kept. The expenditure on the redemption of loans for the preservation of jobs is estimated at PLN 8.9 billion. So these are only the most important forms of helping entrepreneurs who are faced with economic problems directly related to the state of the epidemic in Poland. Of course, life is likely to show further solutions, and in the event of epidemic development there will probably be other adjustments and extension of the scope of aid because it is important that, in addition to health care, and this is the main objective and this objective is achieved through a common national quarantine... In order to ensure that the goal of health protection, which is implemented perfectly in Poland, cannot be concealed... Looking at the statistics of diseases, mortality in Poland and in other comparable European countries, we are really proud that these actions were taken so early, so anticipated. And this is the most important part of the Polish government's activities. But of course, both the prolonged duration of the epidemic and the public's commitment to national quarantine have an undoubted economic impact. These economic impacts the government is trying to mitigate as much as possible, of course also taking into account the reality of expenditure, although the aid level of 10% GDP is really a very important level. And although, of course, the opposition's amendments were much larger in amounts and were much broader in scope, it was in the sense of responsibility (the bell)... This is a law that gives real help to entrepreneurs while at the same time ensuring the stability of state finances. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I request that this law be passed. I am proposing four minor amendments, which are already more technical than those relating to important financial conditions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u22	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. The Sejm has determined that in the discussion of this... I inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that at this point I set a limit of 10 questions for clubs according to the following parity: Law and Justice - 5, Civic Coalition - 3, Left - 1, PSL-Kukiz15 I have a list of Members to vote in front of me. If anybody else from your clubs hasn't signed up, you're welcome. Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska will ask you as the first question. You're welcome, Marshal. 1 minute to ask the question of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A good bill, which gives help, must be simple, give the opportunity to act quickly and be understood. In this bill you can hardly find ideas on how to help people. It takes an interpreter to understand it. We take care of everything, but not real help. I'm touching two areas. Eighteen-grade exams in 13 days. No information, no ideas on how to solve it. Our amendment, which was rejected, gave the Minister a chance to solve this problem. So many days until the exams. Words, words from the government to the children, to the youth, to the parents. This case hasn't been raised in all these days. You're ignoring her. And the other very important thing. It's said that culture is important. There is not a single word in this project about how to help this industry, which has been affected in a very great way, because in fact the whole industry, the whole industry (the bell) of culture, the people of culture have been left to themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u24	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u25	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I just wanted to ask the question: Where are these real solutions for Poles? We spent the whole night working on a bill where we caught - and that was already obvious - more uploads. Are you really putting up antennas, I don't know, seeding these are areas that the government should be dealing with right now? This is just another TikTok, not a real idea for Poles. I very honestly urge the government to really focus on work at the moment, because we as opposition have a duty at the moment to say to the Poles: You are alone. These solutions are far from sufficient. Let's really get to work. Everyone. For this reason, I ask that we all cooperate. I also wanted to ask the question: " Where do these insulates come from all the time? Why do some strange solutions still prevail over real solutions for Poles and Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u26	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the pandemic, an anti-crisis shield should be like an ark for everyone who saves everyone. And what does the government do? The government gives us a small raft for the few, for the smaller and lighter ones for the budget. However, I have a fundamental question: how could you, as part of the amendments, adopt a law that facilitates the dismissal of workers in the administration? What is this example for the entrepreneurs you say: be strong, don't give in, don't blow up your own teams, and get ready to go back? And a very important question to the Minister of Agriculture: How does the Minister of Agriculture, especially his national food holding company, help all farmers during the pandemic? How does it help the collapsing poultry industry? How does it help farmers who produce early vegetables? How does it help all those who produce annual flowers, discount flowers? Where's the national food holding company? This is a fundamental question for the Minister of Agriculture. Because an anti-crisis shield (The Bell) is one thing, and those instruments that the Minister has today, that's another thing. Please answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u28	Thank you, sir. Mr Zbigniew Konwiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Even before the government project entered the High Chamber, the Civic Coalition submitted several draft laws that actually met the expectations of entrepreneurs and workers, as well as employees of broadly understood health protection. We have submitted a project to exempt small and medium-sized enterprises from the Social Security Office. But the PiS is against it. We put together a project to facilitate the payment of compensation to entrepreneurs who suffered as a result of government decisions - their business was going well, their business was doing well, but it was the decision of the government that caused their activity to be suspended. Unfortunately, the PiS is against it. We also proposed a solution so that the VAT account can be used to improve the liquidity of Polish entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the PiS is against it. We also put together a project to ensure that the guardians of children whose schools, kindergartens, daycare facilities are closed at 100% The benefit so that they don't stay with their grandparents, because it's ridiculous. Unfortunately, the PiS is against it. We also applied (the bell) to test health professionals, pharmacists every week. Unfortunately, the PiS is against it. We are proposing 13 amendments and 21 minority proposals to this project, which we had previously tabled at the committee meeting. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u30	Thank you, sir. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u31	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is such a beautiful word: empathy, or understanding, compassion. Just a question: Where is the empathy towards the employee of a company that has 200 employees and who does not get exemption from the Social Security Office, therefore 100 of them will be released in a moment? Where is the empathy towards the owner of three beauty salons, who employs 10 employees, and therefore will receive a ZUS exemption only for half of them, for five? Where's the empathy for the parents of two nine-year-old twins who can't stay home alone because they'd blow this house up, but she won't get the benefit because her kids are too big? Where's the empathy for doctors who only wear masks because the boat is sewing for doctors, which means the citizens are sewing masks for them? Perhaps this lack of empathy results from one thing - that the boards of the Treasury companies will be released last and that you know that the government always feeds itself. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u32	There you go, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u33	I understand that when it comes to this shield that we are talking about here, the idea is to make sure that everything doesn't fall apart while we're fighting the virus. But my question is, what's the plan for this war with the virus really, how are we going to win it? Because I hear the leaks that it's not until May that the government plans to declare a natural disaster. Well, I thought we were gonna be celebrating in May, and it turns out the government planned a disaster. When the government plans to fail, it's not really good anymore. If you plan such an extensive fight against this virus by shutting everything down indefinitely, then the question is: How long is this going to take? Why don't you tell people to save money now? In a moment there will be huge deficits in everything if we fight like this. We're buying ourselves a very expensive time, and we're not preparing any counteroffensive. We still don't have an announced plan. I would point out that if the objective is to keep the disease at several hundred a day, it will take about 200 years for the entire population to pass the disease. To pass it in a year, we'd have to have 100,000. diseases a day. So what's your plan? Take the calculators, count them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And explain how you want to suppress this disease. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u34	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Oh, you asked for the floor, Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u35	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! For several weeks Poland and the world have been facing very serious challenges. There's a big epidemic crisis, there's a big economic crisis coming. The Polish government is trying to solve problems of Poles in a serious and responsible way. And for the past few weeks, we've been hearing invectives, innuendoes, epithets, false statements, hopefully not lying, but just missing the truth. It's very sad and very sad. I wanted to refer only to a few facts, today by the states just presented as facts that have nothing to do with reality. I am speaking to Marshal Kidawa-Błońska... I'm listening, I'm listening. ...I do not know why you say that the shield does not apply to people of culture and the situation of Polish culture. For a few weeks now, we have been telling - on the Ministry's pages we can also read this, in my statements, in the statements of many people - what we do for people of culture. The lady came out here and said we didn't do anything, and the shield doesn't include people of culture. Is it in this bill? Then I'll just give you a few facts. All right. Cultural people are active in economic activity. Both shields present many solutions for entrepreneurs in the field of culture. Cultural people often operate on the basis of one-man economic activity or civil law agreements. The shield presents concrete facts. The facts, the numbers, the money. Yes. And therefore the Polish state supports culture in this matter. You know very well that a new programme of the Minister of Culture has been in operation since Monday, which has been established thanks to an anti-crisis shield that deals with online culture. And this program works. People are applying, people will be able to carry out their activities concerning culture in the network. There is another program that we are preparing for, which will compensate for the losses. There are also appeals in 32 Minister's programmes at the moment, which take account of the current situation. Also these programmes, which are implemented - and these are millions of zlotys for culture, for people working in culture - whose rules are changed, are flexible and adapted to the current situation. And in this context, in fact, a serious situation all over the world, a very serious situation in Poland, all those issues that we have to deal with, as well as a serious situation for all sectors, including cultural people, you come out here, your marshal, and says that we are doing nothing. There are also solutions to the film industry that you've been involved with for years. You're very good at this. But I can't... It's not there. You know perfectly well that these facilitations are already introduced by means of the first crisis shield. Read this bill, not shake your head. I'm telling you, the definition of the movie has been changed, it's also changed... It hasn't been changed. It's a good thing you agree with me. One more point, in principle two points, which I also wanted to address. As far as the exams are concerned, we have announced that there will be a communication on this issue tomorrow. I appeal to all students, parents... As you know, we had to introduce obvious sharpenings. Thanks to them, we do not have 20,000 in Poland at the moment. or more sick people, we only have 5,000, fortunately. It's a pity it's 5,000, because it's a lot, but we've got it under control because of the right restrictions. We also inform about what is in schools and what will be in schools. I would also like to say something - because such words, I still have 0.5 minutes, fell today - to Mr Honourable's speech on social assistance homes. I hope it wasn't a speech motivated by bad will, but a lack of information. In Poland there are 824 social services houses. In 14 social services homes, we actually have a problem with the epidemic, with the spread of the epidemic. This applies not to hundreds, but to 169 people who are sick. This is 169 people too many (the bell), but this really is not a situation that can be eliminated overnight, and this is our common pain. The state, on the other hand, is responsible. Every day we meet a crisis management team, and every day, including today, we talk about the situation in social services homes. Voivodeships are particularly allergic when it comes to surveillance of these houses. They are usually run, as you know, by local governments or private individuals. At the moment, the state is present there: with assistance, with support and with supervision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u36	Thank you, Prime Minister. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm refer this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, as many amendments have been made, I am announcing a time-out. 20. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 mins 03 hours 22 min 08]] I'm reopening the session. We'll check the quorum, ladies and gentlemen. I ask that all of you present in the Chamber, outside the Chamber, as well as those who are watching us remotely, press any button to see if we are ready to vote. The meeting shall be attended by 446 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. There's already a report, so here we go. We continue to consider item 11 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Public Finance: The additional report shall be in print No 332-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u37	Dear Marshal... Microphone, microphone. I can't hear you. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You can hear it now. You're welcome. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. During the second reading, 77 amendments were tabled to the draft law in plenary of the Sejm. The Finance Commission, after considering the amendments, recommends the adoption of 8 amendments - I stress that these are not just amendments of the Law and Justice Club, but also amendments of opposition clubs in this group - while the other amendments recommend rejecting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u38	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 332. The Commission also presents minority proposals as well as an additional amendment report. We will vote on these proposals first. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u39	Thank you very much, Marshal, for your voice. On another subject. Yesterday, Victor Bater, one of the most outstanding journalists, a journalist by the big Ds, a true reporter, informed about the most difficult and most important issues, always reliably, Grand Press winner, dedicated to his expertise. Let's celebrate his memory with a moment of silence. [[The assembled rise, a moment of silence]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u40	Thank you very much, sir. In the 1st minority proposal to Article. 11 applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 1. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 1, 2 and 37. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 454. 178 - for, 232 - against, 44 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the first amendment to Article. 11 applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 1. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 2 and 37. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 30 for, 233 against, 191 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 11 applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 1. Amendment 37 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these proposals together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2 and 37 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 219 - for, 235 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second minority proposal to Article. 11 applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 203 - for, 234 - against, 19 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third amendment, applicants propose to add a new Article. 12a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 312 - for, against - 142, 3 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 20. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 214 - for, 234 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 26. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 213 - for, 234 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 29 applicants propose to delete point 2 The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 220 for, 238 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We've got a full room again. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose to add a new Article. 29a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 16 - for, 280 - against, with 164 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 31 (3) of point 3. c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 58 - for, 236 - against, 166 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 33. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 321 - for, 134 - against, 2 abstained. I conclude that the Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third minority proposal to Article. 42 applicants propose to delete point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 218 - for, 237 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 4th minority proposal, applicants propose to delete Article. 44 and 45. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 220 - for, 236 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 5th minority application, the applicant shall propose the deletion of Article. 46. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 216 - for, 234 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th minority application, applicants shall propose an amendment to Article. 47. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 213 - for, 234 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 10th amendment, applicants propose to add a new Article. 47a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 55 for, 239 against, 166 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th minority proposal and the same amendment to Article 11. 48 applicants propose to delete point 1. We will vote on the proposal and the amendment together with the 18th minority proposal. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 7 and 18 and Amendment 11 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 223 - for, 234 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm's minority proposals and the amendment were rejected. In the 12th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 61. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 61 for, 235 against, 163 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 13th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 61. We will consider this amendment together with Amendment 59. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 13 and 59 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 222 - for, 234 - against, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 8th minority proposal and the same amendment to Article 14. 61 applicants propose an amendment to point 3. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority proposal and Amendment 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 447 - for, 10 - against, abstained 2. The Sejm's request for minorities and the amendment accepted. In the 9th minority proposal and the same amendment 15. 61 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 7. The Commission proposes that the amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority proposal and Amendment 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 458 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm's request for minorities and the amendment accepted. In the 16th amendment, applicants propose to add a new Article. 62a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 175 - for, 282 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 63. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 11 - for, 236 - against, 212 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose to add a new Article. 64a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 10 for, 235 against, 214 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment, the applicant shall propose an amendment to Article. 69. We will consider this amendment together with amendments 23, 25, 29, 30, 35, 43., 46, 49, 60 and 74. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 19, 23, 25, 29, 30, 35, 43, 46, 49, 60 and 74 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 167 for, 239 against, 51. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 20th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 70. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 214 - for, 237 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment, applicants propose the addition of Article. 70a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 149 for, 280 against, 30 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 71. The adoption of this amendment will render minority proposals 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 irrelevant. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 171 - for, 231 - against, 54 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th minority proposal to Article. 71 applicants propose an amendment to point 1. We will vote on this proposal, including minority proposals 11 and 12. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 10, 11 and 12 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 218 - for, 233 - against, 4 abstained. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. In the 24th amendment to the article. 71 applicants propose to add a new point 7a. Amendments 31, 33, 48., 55, 62. from 64 to 66. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 24th, 31st, 33rd, 48th, 55, 62nd and 64th to 66th, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 15 for, 284 against, 157 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th. a minority proposal to the Article. 71 applicants propose to add point 9a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. a minority request, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I have to announce, ladies and gentlemen, a five-minute break because something's crashed. So it's a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 min. 37 hours 23 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to vote. 456 Members voted. 219 was in favor, 233 against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 26th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 71 point 10. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. I don't know if the Members will come back or not. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Let me remind you once again that we are voting on Amendment 26. 456 Members voted. 211 - for, 233 - against, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 71, paragraph 13. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 218 - for, 234 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 71, paragraph 13. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 217 - for, 236 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. 71 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 20. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 32, 38, 39 and 41 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 176 - for, 279 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 32nd amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. 71 point 20. Amendments 38, 39 and 41 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 32, 38, 39 and 41 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 60 - for, against - 232, 164 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 34th amendment to the article. 71 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 21. Amendments 44, 45, 50, 52 to 54, 61 and 68 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 34, 44, 45, 50, 52 to 54, 61 and 68, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 11 for, 284 against, 163 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 15th minority proposal to Article. 71 applicants propose to add point 25a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 219 - for, 234 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 36th amendment to the article. 71 applicants propose to delete point 30. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 210 - for, 235 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 40th amendment to the article. 71 applicants propose an amendment to point 37. Amendment 42 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're going to the voice room. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 40 and 42 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 13 - for, 283 - against, 160 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 16th minority proposal to Article. 71 applicants propose an amendment to point 39. We're going to the voice room. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 221 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 17th minority proposal to Article. 71 applicants propose to add point 40a. We're going to the voice room. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 220 for, 236 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 47th amendment to the article. 71 applicants propose to amend point 47. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We're going to the voice room. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 47 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 210 for, 237 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 51st amendment to Article. 71 applicants propose a new wording of point 55. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 51st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 13 for, 284 against, 160 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 56th amendment to Article. 71 applicants propose adding point 58c. Amendment 57 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 56th and 57th, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 11 - for, 283 - against, 163 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 19th minority proposal to Article. 71 applicants propose amendments to point 62. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 58 and 63 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 173 - for, 283 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 58th amendment to Article. 71 applicants propose a new wording of point 62. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 63 irrelevant. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 58th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 142 for, 281 against, 31 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 63rd amendment to the article. 71 applicants propose an amendment to point 62. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 63rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 209 - for, 242 - against, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 67th amendment to the article. 71 applicants propose an amendment to point 64. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 67th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 221 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. 69. the amendment of the applicant proposes the addition of Article. 71a-71i. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 69. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 174 - for, 282 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th minority application, applicants shall propose amendments to Article. 72. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 174 - for, 234 - against, 47 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 70th amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. 73. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 70th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 171 - for, 283 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 71st amendment, applicants propose the addition of Article. 73a. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 71st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 221 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 72nd amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 73a-73e. The Commission requests that the amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 72nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 211 - for, 232 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 73rd amendment to the article. 76 applicants propose to give a new wording to the paragraph. 2. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. Its adoption will render the 21st minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 73rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 450 for, 3 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Thus, the 21st minority proposal became unobtrusive. In the 75th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 98a. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 75th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 238 - for, 217 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 76th amendment, applicants propose to give a new wording to the article. 107. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 76th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 281 - for, 145 - against, 30 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 77th amendment to Article. 111 applicants propose to add a new wording to point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 77th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 173 - for, 282 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are about to vote on the entire bill. Members have asked for the floor. One minute. Mr Grzegorz Braun. There you go. Three minutes, Marshal. No, one minute. If you don't mind, Marshal, Member. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u41	By vote No 93 the High Chamber rejected the proposal made by the Confederation to protect borrowers and lessees against bank charges imposed at the moment on credit holidays, before annexing contracts on unfavourable terms, against various types of financial violence, which, due to the difficult situation of customers and due to the lack of regulation protecting the consumer, the government allows its passiveness. You are personally responsible for this, Prime Minister. You know this matter perfectly well as the former president of the bank. My question is as follows. Since PiS and the Left have jointly voted against the protection of borrowers and lessees, and PSL and the Platform have abstained on this matter, since you believe that the 6-month free credit holidays proposed in our amendment are too far-reaching, what do you want to apply to the protection of borrowers and lessees if you are a party that cares about citizens (the bell) rather than banks? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u42	Thank you, sir. Mr Boris Budka. There you go. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, 13 days ago, we took shield 1.0. Today you are patching 100 pages with 150 pages of the next shield, only today the Prime Minister made a promise about 100 billion, not clearing out of these mythical 212 billion. What's more, you're about to propose a 3.0 target to patch up those things you're about to accept. This is, unfortunately, a purely bureaucratic act. You have not accepted good solutions that have been in the High House for several days. Dismissed from the Social Security Office for 3 months for all, care allowance for parents of children studying in primary schools, 20 billion for health care, tests for all doctors, nurses, paramedics. Instead, we will be discussing another document in a few days. In the meantime, a few thousand will fall. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish entities. This is not a shield, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u44	Thank you very much, sir. Here you go, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not too short, and you'd have to say good morning, but it's not a good day yet, nor will it be a good day for sure. Why? Because the law almost passed in this form does not meet the criterion of good legislation. Neither she is fast, nor she is simple, she is full of so-called. Side effects. You have not accepted our proposal for a crisis provision of PLN 2600 for anyone who is due to the outbreak of Coronavirus: he will either be fired or have to suspend his business activity. Instead, you're pushing for a tax exemption from civil law for those who trade cryptocurrencies. This is a misunderstanding, this is a horror movie. We will therefore not vote in favour of this project. Too bad, there was a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u46	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland - PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Exactly two weeks ago, we spoke with Minister Emilewicz about the liquidity fund. This is a fundamental issue to protect millions of jobs from being eliminated so that Poles lose their jobs. Well, Prime Minister, today you declared it with the head of the National Bank of Poland. It is only a pity that it was so late, because it could be accepted in today's solutions, because in the real anti-crisis shield, the project of the Polish Coalition, which was reported, which was considered at first reading - unfortunately you did not get much from it - there is a liquidity fund. My question is: Why do we wait two weeks - now we wait another day - for you to finally understand that a good idea, if it comes from the opposition, can also be accepted? Nothing will happen, the crown will not fall down in this case and you will be able to help Polish entrepreneurs and employees as much as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u48	Thank you very much. Finally, Minister Łukasz Schreiber, Minister, Member of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Well, the fact that you would not praise this idea, these solutions, you could assume, because of course you cannot, in your place, praise any idea of the government. But why are you so passionately fighting this idea of why you wanted to reject this project after first reading, that, I honestly admit, I can't understand. And I don't think they can understand that, either, the entrepreneurs you talk about so much about here. I can say, of course, that I am sorry that this project actually came to you so late and that there was not so much time that would give some comfort, but we are in an emergency situation, we are in a situation where we need to act as soon as possible. We want this project to go through the whole legislative path before Easter. After all, here is real help for entrepreneurs, here is a ZUS contribution holiday for small companies, 50% , but this is probably a step in the right direction, here is the extension of these loans to companies also to individuals conducting single-person business, here is the support for people who have civil law contracts, the extension of this aid from one to three months, here is the aid for social cooperatives, the total exemption of their contributions, here is the question of not being able to take this aid, which companies receive under an anti-crisis shield, there are very beneficial solutions for public benefit entities and a number of others. Why are you saying that 11.5 billion -- this is the minimum amount of aid that will be -- that's nothing? Why do you want to vote against these ideas? Today, the Prime Minister presents a great plan, a great plan to save Polish companies as well. I think that's a real proposition that many have been waiting for, and you continue to tell unpretentious stories. We remember that when you were in charge, it wasn't even at the height of your governments in times of economic prosperity to solve the problem of starving children. Now you're telling me you'd probably find two or three trillion. Who's gonna believe that? High Izbo! I can only ask for support of this project, because it is another supplement to this shield, and we have announced that we will do everything every day to help entrepreneurs save businesses and save jobs. That's our goal. But you can also really help. Get the Senate marshal to convene a meeting so he can also adopt a draft law on operational programmes, including this bill as soon as possible... The Senate Act is in the Seym. Marshal, why don't we take care of the Senate Act? ...because entrepreneurs are waiting for this help. You can also mobilise the European Commission and help today with this plan that the Prime Minister has proposed. So it's to be done. Show your commitment and effectiveness in this way. That's what I'm calling for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-08-sejm-09-5.u50	Thank you very much, Minister. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law in print No 332, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 233 - for, 183 - against, 37 abstained. The Sejm has passed a law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 9th meeting of the Polish Sejm. Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 10th session of the Sejm, convened on 15 and 16 April 2020, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. Before closing the sitting, I would like to wish you all a healthy and peaceful holiday. I'm asking you to pass on the wishes to the loved ones you'll be spending Christmas with. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We're adjourned. [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 1 min 05]]
