ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u1	I promise. So help me God. Mr Jacek Kurzepa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u2	I promise. So help me God. Thank you very much. I state that Mr Andrzej Szlachta and Mr Jacek Kurzepa have taken a marriage vow. [[Applause]] Congratulations. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - First reading of the civil draft law on conditions of employment in health care, print No 35, - First reading of the civil draft law amending the Law on healthcare services financed by public funds, print No 37. At the third meeting of the Sejm, he did not vote on the draft laws addressed to the citizens' committees: - amending the Law of 7 September 2007 on the functioning of hard coal mining, print No 31, - amending the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, print No 34. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering these votes. The Group of Members has submitted a draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and certain other laws, prints No 158 and No 158-A. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. I propose that in the case of printing No 158-A the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Health Commission submitted a report on the government draft law amending the State Sanitary Inspection Act, print No 110. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted their views on: - the implementation of the National Programme against Family Violence for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2018, - the Road Safety Status document and the activities carried out in this respect in 2018. The Commission's posts are in prints Nos 123 and 124 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, - for the protection of plants against pests. The reports shall be printed in No 126 and 125 respectively. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Construction Law Act and certain other laws, - amending the Act on the commercial quality of agri-food products and certain other laws, - amending the Law on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. The reports shall be printed in No 156, No 165, No 166 and No 168 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on all items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider information on the Small ZUS Plus programme, the Law Friendly Package and other facilitations for entrepreneurs, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, is available in the Sejm Information System. Before announcing messages - formal requests. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Coalition. Mr President, one minute. Two minutes, Marshal. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. Paragraph 184. 1 and 3 paragraph 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I request a break and a call of the Seniors Convention in order to extend the agenda by informing the President of the Council of Ministers about the dramatic situation in Podkarpacie, and the case concerns the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank in Sanok. Although this matter is included on the agenda, I believe that its importance requires that the Prime Minister present this information here. Okay. 90,000. individual customers, 8,5 thousands. companies and 34 local governments - from day to day these entities have lost their financial resources, they have been deprived of it. While individual funds are still secured - in addition to the shares and bonds that have been lost - local governments and large companies lose around 43% Your resources. The region of Przemysł loses 3 million, Sanok - 4 million, Zarszyn - 1300 thousand. Social, investment, education programs are at stake. We want to know what the government (the bell) will do to help local governments and large entrepreneurs in this difficult situation, so I ask you to extend the agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u4	Thank you very much, sir. As you yourself have admitted, this is already included on the agenda, in questions on current issues. So... Yeah, but... Mr President, we also discussed this at the meeting of the Senior Convention and the Sejm Bureau. I suggest that you, however... Nevertheless, the motion is sustained. Thank you very much. Where's the Prime Minister? The formal proposal is made by Marcin Kierwiński, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u5	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask for a break and call the Senior Convention to add to the agenda a point including information from the President of the Council of Ministers regarding the situation at the Central Anti-corruption Office. Information about theft, thefts at the Central Corruption Bureau that come to us, is shocking. Information about the fact that in a specialized special service to protect taxpayers' money is missing money, that money is being raised from there, is something that shows the scale of the state's distribution under the current government. [[Applause]] However, that is not what is most worrying about this matter. The most worrying is that there is no official information on this issue by the President of the Council of Ministers. This is a matter in which the Polish State should react immediately. What, on the other hand, do we hear from the ministers of the PiS government? We hear from the CBA spokesperson that everything is fine, and from Mr Ziobra we hear that the prosecution is underway. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is time to cut these speculations so that Prime Minister Morawiecki can explain what happened at the CBA. Is it true that Minister Bejda resigned? Thank you, sir, thank you very much. Was the money actually stolen? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u6	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, this matter was discussed at the meeting of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. I would like to inform you that this issue is on the agenda of the Special Services Committee, because some of the information is confidential, and in current questions. Yes, thank you very much, sir. Stealing is classified? Everybody knows. The question will be... The formal proposal is made by Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u7	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm filing a formal motion for a break and a convocation of the Seniors Convention because of the scandalous GetBack scandal. The scandal, which our financial institutions had known about for almost two years, caused the loss of almost PLN 2 billion 500 by more than PLN 9,000. People. Over the years, nothing has been done, which is more than that, when the committee was doing this, people, society, citizens, those who suffered damage as a result of this scandal, were not allowed into the O.R. What's going on? How can you keep quiet about such a thing, not inform about it? If it wasn't for the NIK report, we wouldn't be dealing with this case at all. So, please, Miss Marshal, please include this item on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u8	Madame, you should know the rules of procedure and know that this is a non-regulatory proposal. It was not submitted at the right time, which is why I cannot put it to the vote. Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki from the Confederation is making a formal request. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 19 January, the judge of the Constitutional Tribunal, a law professor, a person of great authority in the legal community, Professor Grzegorz Jędrejek, died. I ask you to honor his memory. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Give him eternal rest, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon him. Give him eternal rest, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon him. Give him eternal rest, Lord... ...and let eternal light shine upon him. May he rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you. Why don't you put some more clothes on?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u10	Thank you, sir. The formal application is submitted by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I propose a formal proposal to convene the Senior Convention, to interrupt and include on the agenda the information of the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy on work on increasing pension and pension benefits. In recent weeks, meetings of the Social Policy Committee held between the Sejm meetings were examined by the Left project on increasing pension and pension benefits to a minimum of PLN 1600. It was rejected, despite the fact that representatives of Law and Justice in the election campaign repeatedly said that these matters would be regulated systematically. E.g. President Magdalena Beyat was called off as head of the Social Policy Committee. There is no consent for us not to help seniors and pensioners live a decent life, especially since such assistance concerned campaign announcements by the president of Jarosław Kaczyński and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I therefore ask that this item be included on the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u12	Thank you, sir. I would like to remind you that this matter was discussed at the Bureau and Senior Convention. There was a government bill that we adopted at the previous session of the Sejm on supplementary pension and pension valorization. Besides, I will not put this proposal to the vote because it is not related to the agenda, as you know. Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary to read the messages. Sorry, I didn't notice. Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left, with a formal request. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure I request a break in the proceedings, a convening of the Seniors Convention and supplementing the agenda with information on the Minister of Justice and the Minister for Foreign Affairs concerning the draft resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe declaring a gross violation of the rule of law in Poland. On Tuesday, 28 January, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe will hold a debate in Strasbourg on the functioning of democratic institutions in Poland and will adopt an appropriate resolution. In this resolution, it will compare the situation in Poland, the situation of democratic institutions, with the situation in other undemocratic countries of the world. Therefore, I believe that the request for information from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Justice is justified at this time, because this debate, this resolution, may be another blow to the Government of Law and Justice, but above all in the Republic of Poland. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Firstly, the proposal is irregular, and secondly, Mr President, I understand that the application to check the rule of law in France should also be considered, right? If it's not... The proposal is non-regulatory. Thank you very much. I'm not putting him to the vote. Mrs. Marshal! But there's a request for Poland, not France...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u14	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation, with a formal proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u15	I bow down. God bless you! Oh, my God! Formal request for a break to convene the Senior Convention and to put on the agenda an urgent process on a citizens' proposal called popularly: stop 447. Come on. Citizen project. Over 200,000. The signatures have affected your Marshal's hands. For the first time since time immemorial the Polish Parliament has a chance to act actively, not reactively. It was supposed to be paid in November. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland has the chance to mark the position of the Republic of Poland on the matter of property called by some without a fall, by others - inheritable, Jewish property on the territory (the bell) of the Republic of Poland... Thank you, sir. ...before the U.S. Department of State presents a congress report on this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u16	Mr President, I would like to inform you that the proposal is, firstly, irregular and you should know that, and secondly, at the moment, a citizens' request has actually been received and is formally checked in accordance with procedures at the Sejm Registry. According to the regulations, he'll find his finale within three months... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir. He'll find his finale here in the Seym. Thank you very much. Signatures will not be disclosed. Please, Mr Maciej Gdula, Left, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u17	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a request for a break and a call of the Senior Convention on the information of the Prime Minister and the Minister of the CBA Special Services Coordinator. This is an extremely important issue, disgusting public opinion. The public wants clear information about what is happening at the institution called for the fight against corruption. Today there is embezzlement in an institution that is called upon to fight corruption. This can't be right. [[Applause]] that there are different amounts. The highest amounts that appear, please countries, account for 7% the budget of the institution. We can't tolerate that. The Prime Minister and the Minister should tell us what's going on at the CBA. We should be clear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Augias' stable.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u18	Thank you, sir. As you know perfectly well, in the service, not everything can be public. I will repeat this once again: this issue will be dealt with by the Commission for Special Services. This proposal has already come to an end, so that I thank you, Mr President. I ask Mr Wiesław Buż of the Left for a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm asking you to order a recess and call the Senior Convention. I propose that a point be placed on the agenda concerning the submission by the Minister of Finance and the Financial Supervision Commission of information on the restructuring of the bankruptcy of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank... It's already been done. ...and to inform the High House of what this new project was put in place to restructure this bank. The Financial Supervision Commission and the Banking Guarantee Fund have applied a precursor, little known restructuring method. Please present this method to the High House and indicate its location in banking law, as there is no pattern for saving banking with this restructuring path. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u20	Thank you, sir. I do not think you have noticed that you have repeated the proposal that has already been made in this House. So listen to each other, because sometimes we repeat ourselves unnecessarily. Ha, ha, ha! Finally, with a formal proposal by Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to request that the sitting be adjourned by noon. 11 and during this time, you have prepared information by the Marshal on the situation related to letters of support to the National Judicial Council. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We have a very clear judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court, which concluded that the letters of support are to be made public. We also have a verdict from the provincial administrative court, which said that GDPR regulations do not apply when certain documents are requested by the court. Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday we were dealing with a panic decision last minute of the President of the Olsztyn regional court Maciej Nawatki, a judge in his own case, who wrote at home on a piece of paper... What was he supposed to write on? ...the order of the President of the Court concerning the cancellation of the delegation of Judge Paweł Juszczyszyn. Scandal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a situation that shows that judges may not be on the phone (the bell), the judges may be on a text from the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much, sir. They are de facto blocking the execution of the administrative court's judgment. [[Applause]] Breaking the law, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u22	Thank you for your request. The proposal is non-regular, which is why I'm not announcing a break. On the other hand, I would just like to say that the Marshal of the Sejm is not a party. Please tell the Marshal of the Sejm from the Sejm Chancellery. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] But the marshal won't prohibit... I would very much like to ask the Secretary to read the messages. It's all trouble, President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u23	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - Public Finance - hour. 10.30, - to Energy and Treasury - hour. 10.30, - Infrastructure - hour 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11.30, - Special Services Affairs - hour. 12, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 12, - Maritime and Inland Shipping - h.m. 12, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 12, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Senior policy - h.m. 13, - for Petitions - at 10 p.m. 13, - Public Finance - hour. 13.30, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Rules of Procedure for Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 15, - Public Finance - hour. 16, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 16, - Economy and Development - h.m. 16, - Health-- hour. 18, - Public Finance - hour. 19. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - the Podlaskie Parliamentary Team - at 10 p.m. 10.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Africa - hour 11.30, - Parliamentary Group for: Oncology - hour 13, - Parliamentary Group for: Development of the Central Pomerania - hour 14, - Parliamentary Group for: Vaccinations and Promotion of Health - h. 15, - Parliamentary Group for: Volleyballs - hour 16, - Parliamentary Group for: Fair Energy Transformation - hour 17, - Parliamentary Group for: Protection of the Greater Poland Lake District - h.m. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u24	Thank you, Member. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws (prints No 158 and No 158-A). I ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to present the reasons for the bill. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us begin point one. I ask those Members who are not interested in this project to have conversations in the clowns, because it really bothers them. I would like to ask Mr Jarosław Krajewski to present the reasons for the bill. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u25	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a bill amending the law on government departments and some other laws. This is a very important amendment, which we can define a systemic and complementary improvement in government work. This amendment, which we have presented to the High House, will first and foremost lead to the creation of two new departments of government administration: the first department - state assets and the second section - climate. These two general amendments, which are contained in this draft law, will also result in changes which will be made in almost 100 other laws. This shows in particular how a number of proposals that have been included in this amendment, in our view as applicants, will contribute to improving the administration's activities and meeting the new challenges that I will talk about in a moment. Since we are talking about government administration, it must first of all be stressed that a strong and efficient state is largely an efficient and effective government administration. And in this direction we aim as representatives of the applicants - to address these challenges that have arisen and which were included in the exposé of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, in the programme of Law and Justice and the United Right. The idea is to organize the work of government administration so that in four years it can be said once again that the Law and Justice kept their word to Poles, that first of all our identification mark is credibility. But in order to achieve that, we need to make these changes. This project is based on the three pillars and the basic objectives pursued by the applicants. First, optimization, second, rationalisation and third, increasing efficiency in management. It is also worth noting that a strong and efficient country is one that can respond effectively to new challenges. This project can, of course, be seen as a natural change, which also stems from the experience of the 4 years of the rule of law and justice, but also from reaching conclusions that are intended on the one hand to strengthen the management of state assets and, on the other hand, to improve the efficiency of climate policy, energy policy and environmental policy on the other. In a few details, I would like to provide the High House with basic information on these two divisions: state assets and the climate. According to the justification, in order to ensure the rational and efficient use of state property, which is worth emphasising - the increase in its value and the achievement of the state's most important economic policy objectives, we propose the separation of state assets. Here we want to focus primarily on the scope of the management of state property, the exercise of property and personal rights, the State Treasury, as well as the protection of the interests of the State Treasury. We want to achieve this by increasing the coherence of actions in these areas. So it's about those priorities that we want to pursue as a government of law and justice. At this point, we can talk about the concentration of these powers within the remit of the Minister for State Assets. However, in order to pursue an effective environmental policy, an effective climate policy, we propose to separate the environment of the new section - climate. This is, of course, a response to the growing interest and new challenges of climate policy - both in national terms, the increasing perception of citizens in climate policy, but also in cooperation with the European Union and international cooperation. It is worth recalling the recent climate summit in Katowice, this Katowice declaration. I think that Poland here has a lot of challenges, which must also result in strengthening the climate department. In this area I've been talking about, it doesn't fit either... This also affects foreign policy issues. Here we propose provisions which make changes in matters covered by the Republic of Poland's membership department in the European Union. This is also a clarification of some of the powers of the Minister in charge of this department. I will talk about this in a few sentences, so that the High House can be sure of the direction we are taking as the applicant of this project. If we're talking about... I'll be back in state assets for a while. This section covers matters relating to the management of state property, the exercise of property and personal rights held by the Treasury and the protection of the interests of the State Treasury, except those which will remain in the jurisdiction of other departments under separate regulations. The Minister responsible for State assets will represent the State Treasury in the management of state property. As far as climate is concerned, it covers climate issues and sustainable development. These proposed rules define the specific tasks to be carried out by the Minister for Climate Affairs, such as the implementation of the European Union's climate policy, the system for managing greenhouse gas emissions and other substances, and the trade in greenhouse gas emissions, waste management, energy efficiency and the development and use of renewable energy sources. As part of the proposed amendments, we also define the scope of matters belonging to the Republic of Poland's membership department in the European Union. This section is being moved to the foreign affairs department on information and education activities for the dissemination of knowledge about European integration and the principles of the functioning of the European Union and on the policy of the Council of Ministers in this field. It is also worth informing the High House that, for example, in the context of these proposals from the applicants, we also want to save the protection of the interests of the Republic of Poland in relations with the institutions and bodies of the European Union and clearly indicate the monitoring of the execution of judgments of the judicial authorities of the European Union. If we go back to a few more issues that I think are important, if we look at the tasks within the State's asset division, it is worth reminding that this project includes, among other things, the project. a solution which obliges the Minister responsible for State assets to be the competent authority to consent to the purchase or construction of real estate for the purposes of government administrations. Of course, with regard to the proposed changes, the fundamental ones that are relevant to the proposed reform of the management of state assets, it is worth recalling that this proposed amendment envisages gathering these competences mainly in the capacity of the Minister responsible for State assets compared to the current situation, when both the President of the Council of Ministers and individual ministers are responsible for certain entities of the Treasury. If we are talking about this project, it is also worth recalling that part of the amended legislation is the implementation of European Union law. In this respect, the Energy Law or the Environmental Law should be indicated. Some of the changes, as I mentioned at the beginning, are editorial in relation to the separation of two divisions of state assets and climate. But it is also worth it - and I think we will work on it in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs - to work on a number of substantive solutions that are aimed at efficient government administration and to guarantee optimisation and rationalisation and increase the efficiency of government administration. I would also like to mention the self-correction made to this project, which provides that the government's proxy for equal treatment will be the Secretary of State at the office serving the minister responsible for family affairs. I am in a hurry to inform the High House that today it is the Secretary of State of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. If we are talking about vacathio legis, because I think there will also be questions about it, we propose that the law enter into force 7 days from the date of the announcement with the exception of two articles which enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement. These are issues related to the order to inform employees within 7 days of changes in their employment relationship. If we are talking about vacathio legis, I would also like to refer to the appeal which was led by Members of the Civic Platform or the Civic Coalition who called on the government to adopt the law on departments as soon as possible. When we go across the street, we propose as an applicant that this term vacatio legis reduce to 7 days. I hope that Members of the opposition will help to ensure that this law is carried out efficiently in Parliament, so that it can be undertaken in a complementary, comprehensive manner to the priorities of the Government of Law and Justice and the rule of the United Right. Finally, it is important to emphasise once again that every Member who will vote on this law, on this project, should remember fundamental issues. And so I think that our goal as applicants, and mine as the representative of applicants, is to achieve optimisation, rationalisation and efficiency and efficiency of government administration. Please accept the project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u26	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The draft law on the amendment of the Government Departments Act presented today at first reading is a very important document concerning the ordering of what is important in the administration, i.e. the adequacy of what is due to the needs and what is happening around us, as well as the needs that the government sees in the course of its management, and for which it is concluded that such changes should be made. In this law, the main issues are two large divisions created and mapped, i.e. state assets and climate. State assets collect from many fields and from many departments of competence. Taking into account the experience that has been and has been in place so far, it seems that this particular design element is very important and very important, because it organises and places in one place the most important functions that the Minister responsible for State assets will have. This is supposed to be rational and efficient management of state property, increasing its value. It is very important, it is the essence - supervision not only in the sense that companies dependent on the state exist, but also in order to increase their potential, their value. Implementation of the State's economic policy as well as the exercise of property rights and protection of the interests of the State Treasury. In one place, in one hand and under one direction. These changes concern many areas, many elements of public functions and competences which are now ceded as ministers. These are issues such as opposing the decision to liquidate state enterprises, supplementing the membership of the Export Insurance Policy Committee, strengthening supervision of public assets of special economic spheres, filling additional representatives including the board, role in matters of banking law, foreign exchange law, public aid to entrepreneurs, control and supervision of concession obligations, increasing the number of members of the Board of Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, responsibility for breaching the discipline of public finances. Crisis management involving the Minister of State Assets, his representative as well as the Minister of Climate Affairs. This is a very important thing, it has often happened, these disasters occur, there are various kinds of doubts, now it is and will be ordered in the scope of this law. Acquisition of shares from the State Treasury in the process of consolidation of companies in the electricity sector. Increase the share of ownership supervision through two representatives in Poczta Polska. The Consultative Council - also there, the Minister for Assets will have a representative. Decommissioning body of the budgetary unit. This is a very important thing, the decision was in different places, at the moment it will be in one - in the hands of the Minister of State Assets. Diet, set aside and spread out on installments. Granting consent to the purchase or construction of real estate for the purposes of government administrations. In one place - specifically it will be the Minister of State Assets. Participation in issues related to the state monopoly on gambling. And a few other competences - very many, in one place, in a large combination. That's a very good solution. And what has already been said, as also mentioned by the rapporteur, Mr Krajewski, the climate. Here's the separation of two functions. We believe that this is also a very important thing, and there have been many discussions on this subject. Climate is an important element not only in Poland but also in the European Union. This is to sanction the fact that, in terms of effective environmental, climate, energy policy and the increasing role of these problems in the international dimension, the implementation of the European Union's climate policy and environmental protection and development will be part of the new climate minister. The proposals put forward by Members in this bill are very concrete. Ladies and gentlemen, this is almost 100 laws that need to be amended, so that this is a very deep law, although mostly clarifying and sanctioning these two new departments. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to ask you to support this request, which, as I said, we believe is a very well-prepared, well-thought-out and ordering proposal for the functioning of the public administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u28	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I, following the rapporteur - who forgot to sign up for this project - appeal to the Prime Minister this time. There are fundamental things. One of the fundamental issues is good governance and management of the most important executive body, the government. And here we are dealing with the situation that since the establishment we have a de facto government of extortion, not to say: the bankruptcy mass of resorts, which are either gone, e.g. technology and entrepreneurship, energy and the Treasury or the environment, or in fact there is not yet, because without the assignment of specific competences. It's mostly climate and state assets. However, since November, we have only announced the preparation of such an act by the government. And what do we have? Nothing. Today, we are looking not at the Prime Minister's proposal or the government's proposal for a device of executive authority, but at the nightmares that PiS has declared. The amendment has 58 pages, concerns dozens of laws, while the original law is half as extensive. So let's take a look at how somebody in the prime minister's office is holding a government. Because in a group of Members - supposed authors there are neither coalitionists nor members of the government concerned. Even the rapporteur, as I mentioned, forgot to sign his name and had to add that he also supported it. There is also no Member of the Council of Ministers waiting for a briefcase, a minister named Wosia, whose Prime Minister, in the regulation, committed to preparing the scope of tasks to be dealt with in the Ministry of the Environment of the hull. Unfortunately, in this project against climate assurance There isn't, either, because it's not enough to name something that's gonna happen. From the Ministry for Climate Policy, there was a name, i.e. what was already in the environmental ministry, plus the hull RES, because not even all the competences in this area. Of course, without the most important climate issue strictly, without energy policy, which is allocated to Minister Sasin in the section. It seems that the climate issues of the PiS eventually lead to smog and trash and the simplification of Brussels and draw money from the Union for this purpose. This is not surprising, because in the national environmental fund, which remains the responsibility of the Minister of Climate, the money is almost gone, because it seems to be going to other things either to Torun or to self-government roads, and this is not the environment. And the resort, the environmental department? It has been hypothetical supervision of the state in the state of State Forests and hunters, as well as extremely difficult cases, because conflicting GMOs, conflicts with the European Union against the Vislane Land and outstanding conflicts about the Białowieża Forest, among others. from UNESCO, and conflicts with NGOs. To sum up, as far as the environment is concerned: no power, no risk, so no wonder that the Minister's signature is not there. Finally, the most important state assets, i.e.: everything we have, Sasin will be given back, of course, by depriving the coalitioners of the fructs, and the Prime Minister himself by limiting the impact. Looking at the Prime Minister's regulation, as well as the Decree of the Minister of Assets, which concentrates power over all gold-bearing companies, in terms of jobs and money, companies of the Treasury in one hand, we can see that - one regulation of the Prime Minister on the list of companies which appeared in December, the other right now, Minister Sasina, even before this law, which we have only just started to process today - over 200 entities, companies, institutes will be subject to the resort of state assets. And a division is proposed for vice-ministers. Of course, the biggest companies, energy in the hands of the Deputy Prime Minister. The whole illustration is well illustrated by the philosophy of ruling the PiS: chaos and division of spoils. Someone, Prime Minister - you are not here, this is not a fundamental thing - is the government. Do you know if you want to avoid responsibility? However, Prime Minister, governing the state is too serious. So we call for this project to be rejected at first reading (the bell) pending your offer, Prime Minister, and your responsibility for the fate of the state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u30	Thank you. Now Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On behalf of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left, I have the honour to present to the High House our position on the Parliamentary bill amending the law on government departments and certain other laws along with the self-correction contained in prints 158 and 158-A. In November Ub. A new government was established with new ministers: state assets, climate and European Union affairs. Changes are therefore needed in the departments defining the competences of the various ministers. It's the Prime Minister's responsibility. For the draft law in this area We've waited over two months. It is not brought by the Prime Minister's office, it is not brought by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, it is brought by Members. I would like to ask the Prime Minister: Was there no government agreement on the division of powers for the new ministers? Why have you waited so long? Did he surprise you? Divide the spoils among the coalitioners after the election? The interview given by the minister today without Mr.Michael Woś's briefcase, which two months ago boasted that he was going to be a minister of the environment. What did the Minister say? On the question of what he was doing, being a minister without a department, for the last two months, and for what we pay him for, he replied: "In the first place, for preparing the division. This is actually a very complicated matter. This bill... according to my earlier announcement the next day after our last conversation two months ago, I passed the bill to the Prime Minister. This is the bill we've worked out. It was the basis for cooperation between various ministers. Of course, the law which divided the Ministry of Climate from the Ministry of Environment or somehow transformed the Ministry of Energy into the Ministry of Climate, and from the Ministry of Environment it removed two departments, this law turned into a larger law, because of course the state assets have yet to arrive. The project is not government but parliamentary, because, as Minister Michał Woś claims, we have come to the conclusion together that our Members will submit such a project, for this reason, in order to achieve this division efficiently. The Ministry of Climate and the Ministry of Environment will be better separated from Members. Or was it because the Prime Minister was ashamed to company this project and was given a political order because the mountain had a mouse? So for public money, Minister Woś, for the next few months, pending the dream resort of the environment will be, as he claimed, divided, because these are not simple matters. Thus, we have a true creator of the law, in which, as the Sejm Analysis Office claims in its opinion of 16 January 2020, the applicants did not refer to the anticipated financial consequences of its entry into force, and this obligation arises from Article. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Constitution and Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 (4) of the Sejm Regulation. The justification for the project also does not correspond to the provisions of Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 (2) of the Sejm Regulation. There is a lack of submission with the draft implementing acts and no public consultation has been carried out. The proposed bill assumes the creation of a government administration climate. Part of the scope of the cases covered by this section is a repetition of the scope of environmental matters. The proposed law does not indicate the extent to which the protection and shaping of the environment and the rational use of its resources will belong to each of the relevant ministers. Doubts as to the factual nature appear to be justified in view of the fact that in the proposed article. Article 28 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 In the introduction to the calculation, the designer used a refund There may therefore be a dispute between the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs and the Minister responsible for Environmental Affairs. In the case of a possible inspection of the Chief Environmental Inspector by both ministers, the applicants did not indicate on the basis of which the authority will be designated, which shall carry out the tasks of the head of the inspection body under the Law on the Control of Government Administration. So will not both resorts race in the control of this office? The creation of a government administration department of state assets means the restoration of the normative content of the former State Treasury department. This name is associated with the current name of the Ministry: Ministry of State Assets, which consists of organisational cells that handle energy and the management of fossil deposits. It is the supervision of state property, the companies of the Treasury. This is the creation, Prime Minister, of a cheap state, of Byzantium, because the created ministry receives additional seats in the supervisory boards of companies, foundations, agencies, special economic zones, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. Dozens of places well paid for, of course, for theirs, for which they will pay. I suppose today they're new members of the board of directors, and tomorrow they'll be new members of the board. How much is this gonna cost? How many places do you need? The Minister of Assets is also in charge of the Board of Companies with the participation of the State Treasury and State-owned legal persons. You're calling off all your previous members, and here you're calling new ones, yours. The project assumes (the bell) a new Ministry of... One more minute. The project also envisages the establishment of a Ministry related to the European Union, but - it is not known why - matters relating to information and education activities concerning the Union will be taken over by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I would like to ask why he will promote the European Union and not the Minister responsible for European Union affairs. We quickly received yesterday a drop-in to transfer a proxy for equal treatment from the Prime Minister's firm to the Ministry of Social Policy. The justification is laconic, it's costless. The 7-day vacathio legis proposed in the Act seems too short to allow the proper departments of individual ministries to be reorganized if it took you 3 months to write the Act itself. It's just some comments. More time, I think, we'll spend it during the committee's work. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] Thank you very much. I would like to say that my club requests that this bill be rejected at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u32	Thank you very much, sir. I would now ask that Ms Urszula Nowogórska speak on behalf of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on behalf of the parliamentary club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u33	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Sorry about the voice, but a cold sometimes comes at the least appropriate time. But to the point. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I have the honour to present my position on the parliamentary draft law amending the law on government departments and certain other laws contained in the sejm print No. 158, together with the self amendment, contained in the sejm print No. 158-A. The adoption of the Government Administration Act on 4 September 1997 was part of the reform of the government's administrative centre in 1996 and 1997. Its particular character was that the scattered scope of government administration's activities was regulated almost entirely in a single law for the first time after many laws. The law was based on the construction of the government administration department, understood as a separate part of the government administration's area of activity, as a rule headed by the Minister. Today, further amendments to this law are proposed. The project envisages moving some areas of cases between government departments related to the separation of two new government departments, i.e. State assets and climate. The State Asset Department, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, covers matters relating to the management of State property, including the execution of property and personal procedures available to the Treasury, except in cases which, under separate provisions, will remain in the jurisdiction of other departments. The Minister for State Assets will represent the State Treasury in the management of state property. It is also proposed that the Minister should have the power to initiate state policy on the use of State property. The climate section will, on the other hand, cover climate issues and sustainable development. The draft law, which passes the first reading today, aims to amend the law on government departments, as well as 92 other laws. The scale of these changes, you might say, is a little shocking. In addition, a number of changes are envisaged in matters covered by the Republic of Poland's membership department in the European Union. It should be noted that the bill is not a draft law implementing European Union law. The question therefore arises as to the actual intention of the applicants. A number of questions arise. First of all, why so soon or why so late? It's been three months. In order for the ministries and state administration to operate efficiently, this should be done in a completely different way, quickly. A self-correction was prepared on the knee and presented to us very, very quickly. Another question. In line with the proposed changes, what is the climate minister really going to do? Shouldn't it say that the climate minister should take care of the clean air program? The voters in the field, the residents of different districts, signal that there are very serious problems in clearing these projects. What do you mean, recapitalisation? Isn't this about funding failing companies? Earlier changes have led to enormous distractions. Mother's company, daughter's company, was formed. Sometimes it's hard to know who's in charge of what and who's responsible for what. Another question. What will be the positive effects of the amendment in addition to increasing the number and expenditure of supervisory boards? We are also wondering if there will be a dispute between the Ministry of Climate and the Ministry of the Environment as a result of the separation of the climate department, because it is evident, for example. in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13a paragraph. 1 of the Act on Government Administrations, the Minister for Climate Affairs oversees the Chief Environmental Inspector, and this body deals with inter alia. monitoring of nature. Another question. With regard to the State assets division, it appears that the applicant intends to restore the normative content of the State Treasury division under the name: State assets division, i.e. it can be concluded that what had worked before, for 8 years, was indeed good. Ladies and gentlemen! Coalition Club Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 is against the introduction of chaos and dispersal. We do not support the writing of a law under which hidden mechanisms lie. We do not like writing the law without consultation, on our knees and under the dictation of a particular interest group, but we want the efficiency of the state administration and the effectiveness of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u34	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Bosak will now speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u35	Ladies and gentlemen! Exactly in December 2016, the government presented and adopted a project to liquidate the Ministry of Treasury here in the Sejm. Let us recall that this took place after a negative assessment of the role of Minister of the Treasury by the PiS policy, which led to the government announcing the liquidation of the Ministry. This law entered into force on 1 January 2017, and the Ministry was liquidated until March. Dear Members of the PiS! Dear Ministers! It's no shame to withdraw from the wrong decision. It is very good that after 4 years you have come to your senses and come to this simple conclusion that if you own so many companies, someone has to manage all of this. The transparent structure in which the government administration responsible for ownership supervision is located is a good structure. Let me just remind you that you promised PLN 100 million in savings on cutting red tape and forecasted that after 10 years of these savings would be 1 billion. It's been four years, you're pulling out of your strategic plans. Moreover, to make it funny, you are retreating under the pretext of the parliamentary project. I don't think there's a more government project than a bill to change the government department bill. This is some kind of joke that you're proposing this country as a parliamentary project. It is also worth noting another fact, namely that the ownership supervision of the Ministry of the Treasury which is now restored to the State Treasury, which, for the sake of not admitting a mistake, you call at this moment the Ministry of State Assets... Outside the jurisdiction of this ministry will be important entities in our state body, which of course supervise very important companies, controlled indirectly by the State Treasury, namely by the Industrial Development Agency and by the Polish Development Fund. Especially in this last entity, there are a lot of interesting things going on that are off the radar of public opinion. I would also like to point out that the challenge that will be faced by you today, and earlier by you, the Ministry of the Treasury.: The Ministry of State Assets is completing privatisation of companies which are not strategic, so-called. The rest. The second issue that we expect from the government is the proper safeguarding of national interests in strategic companies, especially those where the Civic Platform government unwisely, in order to increase its budget revenue, sold out the shareholder, going down into minority packages and not providing that the European Union may interfere with the supervision of the sovereign Treasury over such companies. Get to work now that you've admitted your mistake, that the removal of the ministry was the wrong step. We hope that you will finally carry out ownership supervision of such important Polish companies correctly and that you will take this country seriously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u36	Thank you very much. I now ask the floor of Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u37	I bow down. God bless who I haven't told yet. Many times. The Confederation does not support playing three cards with citizens. Tea from mixing alone will not get sweeter. Ladies and gentlemen, you call it the Ministry of Assets, and we call it an integrated channel access system. Oh, Jesus. That's the way it is. You are torn apart by a twofold tendency: on the one hand, to do well for your own party companions, to increase, to multiply the number of stools to fill, and on the other hand to do well for Brussels officials, to conform the Republic to political correctness. So you're the Ministry of Climate. It is reminiscent of such a saying from the time of Peerel: If socialism takes place in the Sahara, then after a month of sand there will be no more. Look, there's the Climate Ministry, and the children didn't have snow for Christmas. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Think about your own work. The Confederation will not support such lush work, It is not right at all that the government - because my previous speaker is right, concluding that this is in fact a government project - is managing, not doing what the High House would decide here. The Confederation requests that this project be rejected, of course, at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. Nineteen Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people who came forward for the question. I ask Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski from the Civic Coalition Club to be the first to ask a question. The time for questioning is 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u39	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that it is symptomatic that we are talking about the reconstruction and reorganisation of the government and are not listening to this discussion, the alleged author of this change, or the true author of this change, the Prime Minister. I wanted to ask you what is the real purpose of amending this law because I do not believe that rationalisation, increasing efficiency. These arguments of authors, supposed authors, do not convince me. So maybe we need to create a new position. We have a colleague who needs to be a minister, so let's create a new position for him and a new ministry. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the real reason why the project is signed by a group of Members? We don't want to talk, we don't want to talk, we're afraid to talk about serious things, because these are important things that the new ministries are supposed to be dealing with. During this term, I have already witnessed a situation in which the project's authors, a group of Members, and the rapporteur on their behalf did not know the answers to the basic questions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is an even bigger puriazum that Members sign up for a change regarding the shape of the Polish government. What exactly is a parliament for the Prime Minister who prepares and signs these changes? Who are the Members? I would ask you to answer the question of what the costs of this reform will be, in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u40	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u41	High Izbo! The PiS government has 24 members, a historical record. Congratulations. In a rich, still still with higher GDP than Poland, Switzerland is seven members of the government, we have 24. Vice-ministers will not be counted, it is incalculable, because they are blanketing, and every now and then there is a new one. How many are there? 120, 140? And the only minister I see is Minister Adamczyk. Minister, how many vice-ministers do you have in the government right now? Do you know? They didn't count themselves. Or perhaps the rapporteur will answer. Only Hungary, in quotes, is better, so we have Budapest on the Vistula River as regards the composition of the Council of Ministers and the number of Vice-ministers. The powers of the government are inversely proportional to the size of this government, since Members must submit laws on departments. Discredited. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mateusz Morawiecki announces the votum separatum on the ability of Poland to achieve climate neutrality. Poland will not meet the requirements for a 15% share of renewable energy sources in the energy mix in 2020, but we have the Ministry of Climate without climate. You create a row of smog, fog and darkness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski will now ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill provides for the introduction of two divisions: state assets and climate. The Government Departments Act is the foundation of the Council of Ministers' work, and therefore it does not seem as much as it should be so, that it requires adequate reliability and diligence. Such a bill should be directed to the marshal's staff on a government road, not on a parliamentary road. I remember, and I have worked many times in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, that there was a lively and time-consuming debate. The amendment of the Law on Government Administrations requires, of course, consultation by the Council of Ministers with individual ministers, as well as by the Permanent Committee, therefore of course it extends the path, but it is such an important law, so to speak, the foundation of the operation of the Council of Ministers, that it requires such a path. I can't be vacathio legis seven days. I suppose in the administration committee, if this bill is sent there (the bell), it will be processed immediately. Many times, when we amended this law, we worked for a very long time against even individual ministers for our governments, so that there would actually be a law that met all the requirements regarding the integrity and diligence of the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u44	Thank you. I ask you to ask Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The rulers decided to change the structure of the government, but the parliamentary project. Why do Members report this rather than the Prime Minister? We don't know that. What do we know? It is well known that this project is a number of new, attractive jobs for colleagues, ministerial positions, deputy positions, positions in supervisory boards of State Treasury companies, two additional posts in supervisory boards for two colleagues. If you take care of a good rotation, it'll fit six. And there's gonna be some kind of briefing, and what's gonna happen is that they're gonna pay back by paying for the party, paying for the friendly foundation. Good friends will return the favor. Paraphrasing the classic: It's a good life, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, it's a good life. Too bad it's mostly you. And the pensioners regretted $1,600 for minimum retirement, hand in hand with the liberals from the Platform voting against the Left project. Really. My question is this: do you still remember your promises that you will end up with the living room (the bell) because today they sound like a grim joke? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u46	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Dyduch. No, I'm sorry. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek. I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Indeed, referring to my previous speaker, I would like to say that the question arises as to why we have this bill so late. What has the Polish government been doing since the elections, because today is 22nd January, in November and December the Council of Ministers was established, and only today do we have this bill? In fact, this bill, rather than simplifying something, complicates things very much. We were talking about the board of directors. In fact, they are going to get bigger. The question is whether the compositions of supervisory boards and boards in the State Treasury companies will also increase, because there are many points in this draft law regarding the fact that the three ministries will have to agree on different things. So my question is: How much will this bill actually cost us as Polish taxpayers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u48	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For years, environmental activists have been alerting that the chief environmental inspector is not protecting this environment, nor are regional inspectors. The Ministry of Environment hasn't actually cared so far. Controversial decisions, such as the location of industrial farms in areas of natural value - the example of Krynek and Kruszynian - fall and nobody in the ministry cares. And now it won't care about as many as two ministries, because according to the project GDOŚ will be de facto subject to both ministries. Is that intentional? Because it is no longer one, but two ministries - and the environment, and the climate - will pretend that the actions and decisions of GDOŚ and regional inspectors are not their concern. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u50	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought I'd ask, a horse with a row of who knows who wrote this bill. But as a friend from the Left reported, Minister Woś has already confessed. I think who's writing maybe we know, but we don't know who's reading. I feel like no one. First of all, the rapporteur or the applicant does not have the ability to read in this regard, because he quotes only the written justification, similarly the representative of the PiS. Nor did Minister Sasin seem to have read, although he is the hero of this law, because on the same day that the draft law on guns is being submitted, he says that energy will be transferred to the climate department. In the meantime, it is not. The issues of climate policy only in the narrow range (the bell) of talking to Brussels are passed on, but all competences remain in the section: energy and are assigned to Minister Sasin. I have a question for Minister Sasin. Maybe he can read what was assigned to him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u52	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Without assessing the substantive content of this bill, I would like to draw attention to the procedure and form of the procedure for this project. There are, of course, laws that require the application of the so-called. a quick legislative path, but it is certainly not the right way to submit a bill on the departments of government administration by Members without the procedures and requirements set for government projects, without consultation and without opinion. With the principles of correct legislation that we teach our children about in primary and secondary schools, and students in college, this has absolutely nothing to do with it. Finally, I would not like this to be perceived as a bit of a nuisance, but if a group of Members is able to prepare a great bill of several dozen pages, and the government is unable to do so, it does not seem to be a good example of the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u54	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, we have an example of the fact that a group of private Members furniture the Polish legal system. This time you'll be furniture for Prime Minister Morawiecki's office, but that's your business. Let's get you some furniture. If he's okay with it, then let's do it. However, another thing is important in all of this. You share the spoils, in this case the Polish Armed Group. The Polish Armed Forces Group, which was created by the decision of the government of Ewa Kopacz. It was then that the Polish Armed Group was registered in Radom, which was under the Ministry of National Defence. And right now? And right now, you're moving it to the Ministry of State Assets. And the information is what? It's that Prime Minister Sasin will move it to another city to the detriment of Radom, the Radom I represent. Lie! And I would like to stress that any decision on the financing of the Polish Armed Forces Group, raising share capital is also money for my city, for Radom, is an injection (the bell) of additional cash for the budget. So I'm asking you to explain why these changes are happening. And I expect a specific answer from Prime Minister Sasin to ask where he plans to locate the Polish Armed Group. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u56	Please take the floor of Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This is an exceptional parliamentary act, which gives the Prime Minister and the Minister state resources, zones of influence, extending these zones of influence, because at the initiative of Members of 11 economic zones will have one more member of the Supervisory Board, because Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego increases the number of members of the Supervisory Board from 12 to 14 because the Military Property Agency increases the number of members of the Supervisory Board from 6 to 7 members. And you could say that. But there is also one special company, namely PL.2012+ in the list under heading 186. The Minister takes over, but a property tax of 7600 thousand. and insurance of 760 thousand. Makes the Minister of Sport pay from the state budget. On the other hand, the members of the Supervisory Board and the Management Board take over (the bell) Mr Sasin. Thank you. [[Applause]] Son of a...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u58	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the Left Club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question - actually I do not know whether to applicants or to the government - about the division of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Climate. What's that supposed to do? Many times we have scored as Members and Members of the Left government, pointing out that the actions it is taking are, at best, apparent in terms of climate protection, and nothing is being done here to prevent a climate disaster, as a result of which it is already beginning to run out of water in cities in summer, and food prices are beginning to rise sharply. So I ask again: Why should the separation of the Ministry of Climate and the Ministry of Environment be so incompetent that it was not possible to divide the responsibilities of both the Ministry of Climate and the Ministry of Environment well? Is it that this government is so incompetent that it cannot manage its own departments, or is it about creating muddy water so that we can hide sham action and lack of real action for all of us, and that in this water government representatives such as Minister Woś, who have already shown on the occasion of the Justice Fund, can swim freely (the bell), how well they are doing by taking our public resources and making private farms from public institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u60	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. First of all, could I find out who represents the government and presents the government's position towards this project, even though it is, say, a parliamentary project? Secondly, what are the financial consequences of this law, a law which creates three new ministries, of course in part with new employees and partly with the employees acquired? Question to the rapporteur: What are the reasons why some of the tasks assigned to the European part today, namely promotion, information about the European Union, are in the sphere of influence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs? Why should the Ministry, which will deal with the activities of Poland in the European Union, inform and praise the European Union Minister for Foreign Affairs? This is a fundamental question, because if we are creating a resort to deal with policies with the countries of the European Union, then why does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs come into its competence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u62	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is an example of how Poland's wealth is governed today. The applicant, when presenting this project, said, I quote: it contains the priorities that we want to pursue as a government of the PiS. The Member says that he wants to implement the priorities of this law as PiS priorities. Mr Morawiecki, have you abdicated, or do you not know what you know yet? Anyway, ladies and gentlemen, it is a shame that such an important bill, which is currently being discussed, should be discussed on an empty government sector. Two premieres snuck through here every now and then, but apparently it's so boring for them, it's a waste of their time on such an important subject. The Member also said that this law, among other things. clarifies the competences of ministers. It clarifies the competences of the ministers, and the prime ministers are gone, ladies and gentlemen. Don't they care about competence, or do they generally care about what's going on here? The Member also said (The bell) that this project will make a strong government administration and that a strong government administration is a strong country. Sir, a strong country is a strong self-government. Very many records that are included in this project need to be transferred to local governments, because they will guarantee good governance, not political manipulation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u64	Thank you very much. Why didn't you do it for eight years? You've been in charge for four years. Have you forgotten? The question will now be asked by Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In 2001, I had the privilege of being in the left-wing government. Then the public opinion under the influence of the politicians of Law and Justice, then the coalition of the PO, of course, was very thundered that we were taking over that guyship, that partying, etc. We have reduced the number for companies of the Treasury, supervisory boards, from several, which we found after AWS, from seven, nine to three, to a maximum of five in the largest companies. What happened to all those who moralized us at the time, that the Left, in turn, was changing its mind today? You increase the number of companies, positions, supervisory boards, members of supervisory boards. What's the matter, where's the morality? So what? Has Poland changed? Is it economical to run a country? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Think about what you're doing and whether your point of view depends on your seating position. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u66	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Tracz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill presented on the amendment of the Law on the Departments of Government Administration leaves no doubt that we are dealing de facto with the division of spoils, the division of positions in the State Forests, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and coal companies between coalitions of the United Right, coteries and factions. This project and the recent actions of the government give us no reason to recognize the newly formed Ministry of Climate for anything more than the rude greenwashing of your government. They give us no illusions about how you deal with climate crisis, energy transformation and nature conservation. A draft resolution tabled by the Civic Coalition on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm concerning the establishment of a permanent committee on climate matters was sent to the Seym freezer. Scandal! Because how else can one interpret the fact that he was still not dealt with by the Rules of Procedure committee, to which he was sent on 22 November Ub. [[♪ The bell ♪]] draft resolution, which was an expression of our will to cooperate with the new Ministry of Climate Affairs? Therefore, my question is: When will you remove the draft resolution on setting up a permanent climate committee from the freezer? Will you support this project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u68	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Romuald Ajchler, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The Left will not support this bill. Mr Szczepański presented the position of the club in detail. We are afraid of one thing Mr Dyduch mentioned. We would support any law that doesn't create political beings, and that law does. I am personally afraid that new supervisory boards will be set up again in these new existences. Courage. You're gonna have to pay a lot of money to check in with different people. But above all, this law is characterized by the fact that it is for so-called. Yours. Don't do it, don't go that way, like the classic said, there's still a chance. High Izbo! Well, there's one thing I don't understand. I am a member of the sixth term, and I cannot grasp the creation of these new creatures. I do not understand (the bell) why the creation of the Ministry of Climate from the Ministry of Environment takes place on the races. One minister, the other minister. The point is that in those matters that most people decide, the government decides, there is agreement, and not that it is, as they say, the division of spoils. That's what this bill is about. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u70	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Three years ago, PiS politicians under the noble slogan of austerity destroyed the Ministry of Treasury. At that time, of course, it wasn't about any savings, it was really about sharing the spoils among the individual PiS politicians. Scandal! Some were sent to you by Prime Minister Szydło, some to Morawiecki, to Ziebra, Gowin. There's a lot to be said for. This had absolutely nothing to do with the efficiency of managing state assets. You've seen this for yourself, seeing that it really only leads to great conflicts inside your camp. Today you are restoring the Ministry of Treasury - the changed name brings nothing new here. But what are we watching? At the head of the committee, which will control the distribution of the spoils, you placed a trusted man president Kaczyński and he has there these representatives of every group from your camp. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is outrageous and reprehensible behavior, which will absolutely not lead to more efficient management of resources, state assets. And one more thing. Minister Woś has been in Prime Minister Morawiecki's government for 10 months. He vowed as Minister of Environment. I'd like to ask, what did he do for 10 months if he didn't have a resort? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] He wasn't doing anything. He took the money, it's hard work.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u72	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Piotr Nowak for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to say, Prime Minister, but the Prime Minister, as usual, has... To put it mildly, he has a distant attitude towards the Sejm. So we, as a distant Sejm, are asking the Prime Minister a question about the tasks that this government is facing. And the fundamental task, which is at the moment, is the transformation of industry, energy, transformation of the Polish economy towards a zero-emission economy. This is a task that we need to respond responsibly to, which is to construct this government in order to carry out a fully defined task. Meanwhile, we have a division between the Ministry of Assets and the Ministry of Climate with unclear competences and with unclear influences of one ministry on the other. From the word key: the task emerges the next words keys (the bell): chaos, mess and paralysis of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u74	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Małgorzata Płęp, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendment of the Law on Departments is a project which does not strengthen state assets at all, but strengthens pisiewiczów and the division of spoils, i.e. work for his, as usual. This bill is unacceptable. What's it like, Mr. Reporter? You say that the purpose of this law is to bring about optimisation and rationalisation and efficiency of public administration. So, what, the public administration is inefficient at the moment? What is it like, sir? Why is vacathio legis so short - 7 days? In seven days, it's impossible. Why is this bill a parliamentary project? Where's the public consultation, where's the opinions? That's not the right thing to do. You're in charge of the fifth year, and you've learned nothing. That's lying. It's just... [[♪ The bell ♪]] One more thing, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Woś is here. Minister, maybe you'd have the civil courage to come here, you'd say that you wrote this bill, that you're the creator of this bill, because that's what you said on one of the radio stations on January 20th, and you bragged about writing this bill and handing it over to the Prime Minister. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, Stop lying. You're lying notoriously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u76	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As we do not know what is going on, it is always known that it is money, companies of the Treasury and stools in these companies. The resort of state assets under the Minister's Regulation will be subject to more than 200 entities, including: companies, institutes. Minister Sasin will personally supervise 27 companies, including: energy companies. But on this occasion I wanted to ask the Minister, first of all, whether there will continue to be such a large rotation in positions in the Treasury companies, on the basis that one makes room for the other, because everyone has to earn some money, or whether some strategic management will eventually start to optimize the profits in these companies. On the other hand, I also wanted to ask Prime Minister Gowin on this occasion whether the position for Zbigniew Gryglas and the supervision of 69 companies within the Ministry of Assets (Dzinek) was a payment for supporting the muzzle bill, because even your senator spoke openly during the debate in the Senate that this law was incompatible with the Polish Constitution, and wanted to make amendments in this regard. So maybe eventually the Members of the Agreement will stop being sold for this type of synecur and resist such oppressive changes in the justice system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u78	The question will now be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u79	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The fact that this law will allow the fastest growing group of millionaires in Poland, i.e. millionaires from Law and Justice, to grow even faster is obvious. The fact that this will not improve climate protection is also obvious. One thing, on the other hand, one change is of concern to me. This law of law and justice is being passed on by a representative of the d.o.b. equal treatment from the Prime Minister's office to the Minister responsible for family affairs. This, of course, is, first of all, a change that, in fact, can be said to lower the status of this office. The amendment is, according to the applicants, dictated by the need for better cooperation with the Disability Representative. Of course, the issue of people with disabilities concerns a very important area of activity of the proxy. In addition, there are many other areas related to gender equality, pay, different, really different. Question to applicants: What caused such a drastic change, such a drastic reduction in the rank of this proxy in this project? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u80	Thank you. The question will be asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u81	Dear Marshal, I have a question for the Members of the applicants. There's a whole room of ladies and gentlemen. How do you know that the Prime Minister and the Government want to be furnished, that they want to function in the way that you have introduced this law? It's outrageous, isn't it? You are proposing what the bill should look like, i.e. You've prepared a law on cannons. I'd like to ask you this. an efficient country. Who will now be responsible for the fact that effective staff will be a priority in this solution, not bureaucracy? The Prime Minister said it on March 5th. In 2015, employment in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister amounted to 559 people and in January 2020 - 719. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you mean to say that the Prime Minister's words will be up to date? Because he won't want bureaucracy, but you're giving him that bureaucracy. It is outrageous that this is the way you try to create synecuras for your own. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u82	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul from the parliamentary club of the Left closes the list of Members of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, where is the public consultation on this bill? Where can the sovereign you so often mention speak and express his position? Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, these are the next places where your staff will have employment. As the classic said, give us the motherland, Lord. Only that comes upon the applicant's submission of this law. Think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u84	Thank you very much. I would like you to address the Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister of Mr Paweł Szrot. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, You tell the truth, Minister, who wrote. Because no one's read it. (PL) Madam President, Skowrońska. I'm in a hurry to answer that. It should not be a mystery to anyone, nor any particular discovery, that the project was written in close agreement, in close cooperation and in close agreement with the government party. The government's hand held? Such projects are always written in close cooperation. The result is this bill that the government supports because it's a question. Of course, the government supports the solutions contained in this law. It is about agreeing with the parliamentary party. I do not really understand, ladies and gentlemen, why you are depreciating the role of Parliament and are so underestimating. You have absolutely the right to impose standards also to the Council of Ministers and its institutions. When did the Council of Ministers support this project? The Council of Ministers supports this project. I'm saying here... Were there any arrangements? Of course there were arrangements. How can you imagine submitting such a project without agreement? Please don't discuss it now. I ask the Minister to answer the questions asked earlier, not the questions that are now being asked. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: As regards the specific questions raised during the debate, I have already answered the question whether the government supports the project. The question was whether PGZ's headquarters would be transferred to Radom. I am unable to respond to Mr Sasin's structural plans for this company. Of course, we will answer in writing. Mr Owa asked what Minister Woś had done so far. Minister Woś was appointed Minister of the Council of Ministers responsible for organising the Ministry of Environment. The effect of his work today is also being considered by the honourable High House. As regards the questions which were directly addressed to the Council of Ministers, I wanted to give just so many answers. The rest of the questions will certainly be answered by a representative of the Members of the applicants. Once again, I would like to stress that this project has been agreed with the government. This is not a particularly precedent or unprecedented situation in parliamentary work to date. It's a custom. This is a very important thing in Parliament, Madam President, and it needs to be followed. Sometimes customs are bad, they're dirty. Some vices are being taken care of. Parliamentary customs are sometimes mentioned even in the catalogue of sources of rights. But there was a request not to have a discussion, but to have the minister answer the questions asked earlier. Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you. Please accept the explanation. [[Applause]] What were you promised?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u86	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Krajewski will speak on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna react to these insinuations anymore because... Hand. ...but more important is the substantive approach to the subject, and I will concentrate on that. But that's a kind question. First of all, there's a question of the shortcomings you've been asking about. Additional information has been supplemented when it comes to e.g. the financial consequences. I can present them to you, the High House. The main point is that the project can have financial implications that will be covered by the 2020 budget. From my information, the draft budget presented by the Council of Ministers shows that proposals for changes in government departments have been taken into account. There's no danger here. Don't create fake news. I will refer to the question of the charge that you are trying to raise. It's about the fact that it's a parliamentary project. No one else, like the two parliamentarians of the Civic Platform, appealed to the government and to the politicians of Law and Justice... The government. ...and asked when the bill amending the law on government departments would be presented. This is an inconsistency. Does this mean that all Members are in government? You are simply now, instead of being pleased that your appeal has been heard - the project has been presented, we point to a shorter 7-day vacathio legis for most of the rules - you are only trying to raise a political charge against this draft. For my part, I will add, because I reached out to what was then, 4 years ago, when a draft law was presented on changes in government departments, when the Civic Platform spoke of itself as being a total opposition... Do you know what Mr Wójcik, representing the Civic Platform Club, said at the time? He said it was a natural law, that it was the law of the parliamentary majority, the government, the government departments. By the government. It was also a parliamentary project at the time. That's very important, too. This is no precedent. Don't let it get to you. On several occasions, projects relating to government departments have been presented as parliamentary projects. So much for facts about this range, of course. It is also worth recalling - you often mention the constitution - that there is an art. 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which clearly indicates that Members have a legislative initiative. That's what we're using. Only budgetary issues, the draft state budget, are dealt with solely by the Council of Ministers. I think that, for Members who are here for the next term of office, it is obvious, but I understand that if there is a possibility of striking the Law and Justice, you are reaching for all the charges. Please answer the questions, not the squabbling. I will also refer to the question of the fact that this is a parliamentary project. Well, we as Parliamentary Club Law and Justice value good cooperation with government administration. This project, as Minister Szrot said, was discussed and consulted. Good cooperation with a stable parliamentary majority is an added value. Today we can tell Poles that we avoid such discussions, disputes that happened even when two parties - the PSL and the Civic Platform - formed a parliamentary majority. To the point, sir. Please answer the questions. Today we can talk and put forward proposals constructively. [[Applause]] There is also a question of the fact that you are saying what your intentions are. I was talking about those intentions. It is about optimising, rationalising and more efficient management. Where? To answer the question of one of the Members of the Civic Platform, I would like to say that under no circumstances have I pointed out that there is no efficiency in government administration today. Using the experience of 4 years of rule of law and justice, we draw conclusions and present them in this project. It's a matter of public consultation. You know that we are open to dialogue, consultation and compromise. If you have proposals for constructive amendments, we are waiting for such amendments, but so far you are only making requests for complete rejection of this project at first reading. It is difficult to say that this is any constructive criticism on the part of the opposition in this regard. The question of protecting the interests of the Treasury - the subject raised by Mr Bosak. Mr President, we propose the following: the Minister of State Assets will have the opportunity to object to the decision to liquidate a state enterprise. We point to the need to protect the interests of the State Treasury and we expect the Minister, who will deal with the department of state assets, not only to increase the value of the companies of the State Treasury, but also - as stated in the explanatory memorandum - to prepare the whole strategy in terms of their functioning, and to respond even to a possible economic downturn so that the value of the companies of the State Treasury grows. I think you should have the same goal. It is difficult for me to imagine that there would be a parliamentarian in this Chamber in the Polish Parliament who would have a different purpose. If we're talking about self-government... She said that we are pointing out that a strong and efficient country needs, above all, an efficient government administration. That's what I said when I first spoke. I paid particular attention to this. For almost 10 years I was a local government in the capital city of Warsaw and I am aware of the tasks of government administration and the responsibilities of local government units. There's no doubt about it unless you have it. The last charge that was raised was that I used a phrase that clearly indicated my identification with the Government of Law and Justice and the United Right. I think it is very good to say that the applicant identifies and supports the government in this respect, in order to prepare legal solutions that will improve and enable it to meet expectations, including climate. I was talking about energy, climate and environmental policy... She's not in that bill. ...because we are aware of the growing interest of citizens in climate policy. Every day - I think in all media or most media - there is information about smog. And I live in Warsaw, so I know what the problem is in a city managed by the Civic Platform and President Rafał Trzaskowski. Unfortunately, I also know that in this area the Civic Platform in Warsaw has done very little. The question is one more question - about the representative of the government for: equal treatment. This proposal, which is included in the proposal, clearly assumes that the transfer of powers of the d.o.b. equal treatment under the authority of the Minister who is responsible for the family will be equivalent to the principle that this representative is, of course, appointed and dismissed by the President of the Council of Ministers. Under no circumstances can I agree with the allegation that this is any depreciation of a proxy. Of course, it is about combating discrimination - absolutely. All these rules, which are laid down in the laws that rest on the proxy today, on the Minister, will be implemented. Here is the issue of improving this cooperation with the Minister, who responds as a representative of the Government for Foreign Affairs. persons with disabilities. It is also a question of bringing this cooperation closer together and responding also to the new social issues that are emerging and which must also be noted and which should be prevented by government administration. This will be the role of the proxy, but - as we propose - in the Ministry, which is responsible for the family department. I don't think this case is causing much controversy. I don't even see these controversys in the plenary room right now. Once again, then, I ask you to adopt the bill and to continue with the parliamentary work in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u88	Thank you very much to the representative of the applicants. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection (prints No 46 and 110). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u89	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Health Committee, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection, prints 110 and 46 respectively. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an extremely necessary amendment, which has been said so for a good cause for several years. We discussed this at first reading in the plenary room, we discussed it at the committee meeting. In short, one of the most important things that this law deals with is the verticalisation of the health inspection structure, so that the county inspectors are more independent of local authority than they are at the moment, so that they can take effective, more effective action for the sake of the safety of citizens than they have done so far in their service. It's an extremely important bill, extremely necessary. In order not to prolong - because we have a vote in a moment - I wanted to say that the Health Committee recommends that this law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u90	Thank you very much, sir. Yes, I am declaring a time-out. 12.15. Then there will be a vote. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 minutes 01 hours 12 min 17]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on the amendment of the law on the departments of government administration and some other laws. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Members are still working on the cards, so we'll wait a moment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 158 and 158-A will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. It was 212, 228 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent it to the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission for consideration. I propose, on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, for the Sejm to set a time limit for the submission of a report to the committee enabling it to be examined on 23 January 2020. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. 2-minute break, ladies and gentlemen, technical. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 18 hours 12 min 20]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I therefore ask the floor of Mr Czesław Hoca, who will make a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. If there is no Member, I ask that Mr Rajmund Miller speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Coalition Club a position towards the government's draft law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection, Parliamentary Printing No 46. The draft law covers the State Sanitary Inspection, and the purpose of this project is to change the organisational structure of the State Sanitary Inspection (Gwar)... Mr. President, maybe we should wait a moment, because your colleagues... And my friends. ...they make it impossible for you to speak, including your friends. There you go. If I can go back, and I ask you to stop time-limiting, I will repeat that the project involves a change in the organizational structure of the State Sanitary Inspection. Although the justification for the project is logical and talks about improving the structure of this inspection, we have serious reservations about the procedure for its implementation, as the notification of the project is a violation of the Act of 6 May 2005 on the work of the Joint Government Commission and the Territorial Self-Government. The Ministry did not decide to set up this government commission and the changes that actually concern the part that has been subject to local government before are introduced without the approval of the local government. And we don't think it's possible to process even good bill projects without the approval of local governments, if that's their competence. This cannot be done with a breach of legal order. Now, please, my colleague, who will present the remaining comments on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u92	Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This government in one is to pain consistent, namely in robbing and depreciating local government in Poland. You have led to the fact that Polish local governments are on the verge of bankruptcy, smashing or throwing costs, among others. so-called. deformities of the education system, increases for teachers to self-governments just. You've reduced the revenue of the local government. You consistently take over the powers of local governments to centralize power to build an authoritarian state, as well as to introduce your people to positions that are currently in individual government or government institutions. The point is to own the whole country. There can be no Parliament's consent to this. Ladies and gentlemen! There are no signals, there is no evidence that local governments, which have certain competences in terms of supervision of district health inspectors, are not dealing with this. On the contrary. Local governments, county authorities help, also financially, in the functioning of district sanitary inspectors. [[Applause]] They spend huge amounts of money so that laboratories can function so that workers can fulfil their responsibilities under decent conditions. Ladies and gentlemen! In addition, the old-age districts are responsible for security, for crisis management in the area of the county. If you take away all their powers, including the supervision of the State Sanitary Inspection or the District Sanitary Inspection, how will they be able to carry out their duties effectively? And they're responsible. How can you be responsible for something without being able to say anything? Ladies and gentlemen! This project is inherently bad, it fits in with the PiS government's tendency to destroy the local government, to take away its powers, and therefore there is no agreement of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. I'm filing a motion to reject this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u94	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Czesław Hoc is already in the Chamber, who will make a statement on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it is difficult here to refer to the words of my previous speaker, because this attitude - total defeatism, blackness and criticism - is already becoming grotesque. It is difficult to take such arguments seriously. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present an opinion on amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection, print Nos 46 and 110. You can say at first: it's about time. Finally, there will be a return of the State Sanitary Inspection to hierarchical management, the restoration of functional substantive subjection. All in order to improve, harmonise and organise the functioning of the State Sanitary Inspection for effective, better coordinated public health surveillance, it is all about the health and life of citizens, because all decisions at the time of epidemiological or other threats must be taken without delay, coherently, professionally and effectively. Today's State Sanitary Inspection is not only about ensuring food and food safety, hygiene and sanitation conditions for staff, equipment and medical facilities. It is not only disease prevention or supervision of environmental hygiene conditions in workplaces, radiation hygiene, teaching and education processes or leisure and recreation hygiene. This is also, and perhaps above all, modern challenges: cooperation with other services on African swine fever, outbreaks of avian influenza and swine influenza, prevention of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis and co-infection of tuberculosis and HIV. These challenges are Loreliosis, which appears to be a problem of the 21st century, as well as prevention of water contamination with legionell bacteria in water systems. Speaking of legionelli. Do you know that for many years there has been no hot water in the European Parliament's buildings, either in Strasbourg or in Brussels? Perhaps they do not have as efficient and professional sanitary services as we do in Poland. The modern challenge of health care is also the possibility of bioterrorism activities, as well as the current threat of a crownavirus from China, which can now enter Europe with such free movement. Today's health centre also sees new threats to e-cigarettes. It is also a problem concerning the so-called. The boosters. Currently, the health centre needs to multiply, exert its efforts on the issue of the decline in the level of empowerment in Poland. Suffice to say, the number of people who refused preventive vaccination increased from 3,000 in 2010 and 2018. Up to 40,000. Mr. Marshal! Only a vertical structure will enable the Health Minister to exercise effective public health supervision and to take decisions that allow immediate and adequate emergency action by health and epidemiology services across the country. How do we know that? First of all, from a dozen years of experience. We have had an example of an inconsistent, uncoordinated functioning in the area of the competence of the organisation of the State Sanitary Inspection. Secondly, such are the expectations of employees of the bodies of the State Sanitary Inspection, the Association of Employers of the Republic of Poland, Tripartite Team on. Health Protection, Industry Council of Health Inspection Workers, Sanitary and Epidemiology Council and others. It is a matter of clear rules for the appointment and dismissal of the regional health inspector and the district health inspector. At the same time, inspectors of the State Sanitary Inspection will be required to make a statement that they did not cooperate with the security authorities of the Polish People's Republic. Rules should also be laid down as regards the performance of additional occupations by state health inspectors and their alternates. At this point, I would like to thank all the staff of the State Sanitary Inspection that, despite the organisational inconvenience, significant problems in supervision at the various levels of authority and the unsatisfactory previous salaries, they were able to work responsibly, substantively and with great commitment to public health safety. And on the occasion of the anniversary of the 100th anniversary of the health services and the 65th anniversary of the State Sanitary Inspection celebrated a few months ago, I would like to wish you, all your employees and your families every success. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill to amend the State Sanitary Inspection Act. At the same time, it amends the clarification of the issues concerning the Chief Health Inspector of the Polish Army and the illustrative statements and supervision by the Chief Health Inspector of the tasks carried out by the state health inspection of uniformed services.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u96	Thank you very much. Now I would like to ask the floor of Mr Mark Rutka on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In principle, centralisation of the structure of the State Sanitary Inspection and the establishment of the State District Inspector may be considered as a step in the right direction. However, this is not enough. This step - not for the first time - is a bill made, you can say, a little bit on the head. Why? It is worth mentioning here a quote from the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office: The aim of the draft amendment is to improve the complexity and effectiveness of the supervision of the State Sanitary Inspection, in short the PIS. Even when it comes to another PiS, this objective of greater control over this institution is right. As regards the specific provisions of the draft law amending the Law on State Sanitary Inspection, there is no reasonable reason to deny the authorities of local authorities the right to apply for action to ensure sound health safety or to take action to remove this threat. According to the Polish County Association - but it must be remembered that during the committee's deliberations, the union was not allowed to vote, i.e. the social side - there are no known cases that local governments have abused their competences so far. And the deleted entry from this bill enabled quick response in the event of a threat to the health and life of the inhabitants. It was an art. 12a paragraph. 3a and 3b of this law. Someone other than non-local governments is closer to the affairs of citizens and events that take place in the county, the municipality or even the district. An example of how late government authorities can act is, for example, a storm and an air trumpet that hit Pomerania, my district, in the summer of 2017. It was, among other things. the town of Rytel. Even though this storm knocked down 8 million m As I mentioned, we welcome the increase in the powers of the Chief Health Officer, but the prohibition on persons working in state security bodies between 22 July 1944 and 31 July 1990 is a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and is totally unacceptable to us. The application of collective responsibility without criminal proceedings, without final judgments, does not fall within the canons of the rule of law, and especially the rule of law at the heart of Europe. We're more surrounded by nomadic tribes of central Asia's steppes a few hundred years ago. In view of these reservations, the Left Club submits two amendments to this proposal to the High House. One concerns the restoration of the relevant powers to local authorities and the other concerns the so-called provisions. a debubbishing bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u98	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the parliamentary club Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 Mr Dariusz Klimczak will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on the governmental draft amendment of the Act on State Sanitary Inspection. Ladies and gentlemen! Changes to the State Sanitary Inspection Act have been planned by the current governing team for practically 3 years. The decision on this matter of Law and Justice is astonishing. We have waited so long for a change, which focuses practically only on the verticalization of the service subsidiary. This was not the case for a sanitary inspection, especially since they were to take place at the right time and were planned for a long time. The health centre has been waiting for financial, systemic support, mainly regarding staff salaries, support for laboratories, organisational changes, weapons of inspection in additional competences, unification of procedures and anti-epidemiological measures and mechanisms for implementing health safety policy and many, many other issues that arise from the long practice of health care particularly at local level. There is one thing that comes from a committee meeting where we haven't learned any deeper justification. The changes that are planned in the health centre are mainly about how officials are appointed, which is only another stage of centralization of public authority in Poland. We know many such examples of taking competence. They concerned agricultural advisory centres, the Voivodship Environmental Fund, water melioration management and water equipment, matters related to the coordination of family benefits, 500+, which were withdrawn from marshal offices to voivodships, even the Fund for the Development of Physical Culture. A whole litany of such activities could be presented. The Health Department joins those institutions that will no longer be able to cooperate today. And we remember the recent debate on BDO. What would happen if someone had thought ahead of time and asked the county to accept applications? There wouldn't be those Dantesian scenes in marshal offices that were in many places in our country. I very much regret that the government has not come up with anything that we can accept together in the three years we have worked on amending this law. In addition to verticalisation, he only added dezubecification as if it were the biggest problem in the current functioning of sanitary inspection structures. My assessment of health care measures so far, especially in counties, is good, especially in those financial conditions where inspection had to move. Many good own initiatives, very good cooperation with local and local authorities, and the implementation of 100% all national programmes with an extension concerning the specific characteristics of the county concerned. I'm giving the local district health department at least five, if not six, because often the health centre went beyond its existing capabilities, which were not really wide. On the other hand, such a flagship example of good local management and proper use of this, one can say, independence, non-spinning, would be an example of boosters a few years ago. At that time, we saw how in this situation, which started in Łódź, and then took place in all parts of the country, the health resort together with the local government managed, especially with those shops that multiplied and formed. At that time it was necessary to cooperate with the district government responsible, the governor, the president, who also serves as an old-timer. It was only through this initiative and independence that ways could be used that prevented these shops from being created and the risks posed by boosters for young people. But how was the government treated today? I am speaking in the context of the state in which the local government took over the health centre. Everyone who was an old-timer at the time or active in the county council remembers that they had to buy cars, had to equip these buildings, renovate them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] A lot of money and commitment the counties put into making this health care look the way it looks today. What about today? Today, this matter was not even properly heard at the meeting of the relevant committee. The voice of the county union, the voice of the town union was not heard. Therefore, as a club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 we propose an amendment not to withdraw entirely the participation of the oldost in the appointment of the state health inspector. I'm putting the correct amendment in the hands of the marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u100	Thank you very much for speaking on behalf of the parliamentary club. Now, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, and then Mr Grzegorz Braun, will speak on behalf of the Association of Members of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Confederate Club will vote against. We see no reason to violate the subsidiarity principle and centralize something that does not have to be centralised. By the way, I'd like to correct some use of words. It was noted here that this creates an authoritarian state. This is a misunderstanding. It creates a totalitarian state. This is an authoritarian state, and here we are dealing with the construction of a state that can do anything. And the second corrigendum. Members here claim that they want democracy - tfu! That's not true. They want the rule of law. This PiS is a democratic party and having a majority, it has the right to do what it wants, because democracy is that it is tyranny of the majority and most can do what they want with us. You wanted tfu! - democracy, that's what you've got. One more remark. A friend of Braun's from the stand recently spoke about the Jewish property bill. Well, that's a misunderstanding. Ladies and gentlemen, people who were murdered were Polish citizens and whether they were Jews or not, it would in any case have to be checked by the Nuremberg laws whether they were really Jews. Murdered were Polish citizens and we must stick to this terminology. Thank you for your attention. Braun's friend has a voice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u102	Thank you, Mr. President, for that correction. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, the Confederation is a circle created by Polish states who take the need for an efficient, strong Polish state very seriously, but a strong country will only be strong if it stops distracting its forces on matters that it does not have to deal with and even should not. Health care has already been given to Poles who want to preserve freedom in the choice of medical procedures, e.g. applied to their little children. In the justification for this bad, bad draft law change we read some data taken from the ceiling about the alleged increase in the number of Poles who do not apply forced vaccinations to their children. I say: taken from the ceiling, because these data do not specify whether people who have refused vaccination, have given vaccination to a newborn child, e.g. after a month or two months, they do not proceed to this procedure elsewhere and under other circumstances. Thus, the inaccuracies of justification, the confusion of meaning, the correct interpretation of the statistics, which the legislator refers to. I'm saying that the health department is already in danger because there's a clear conflict of interest here. On the one hand, the health centre is bound by this totaliztic one, still in writing, not formulated, but by a practical order to chase the parents of children who, I repeat, demand freedom and demand respect for parental rights in the field, e.g. medical procedures, but on the other hand, health care should record cases of so-called cases. Undesirable vaccination reactions. Here is a conflict of interest: in one or the other case, a clerk, a health worker, may fall into a conflict of conscience, and therefore we cannot be sure of the integrity of the keeping of these registers. And since this is happening at local level in the case of health care professionals, yet centered, we fear that if we have one central, totaliztic official on these cases, these undesirable post-regulation reactions will also increase. Hence we cannot support this project, but I would like you to note that we do not do this out of a tendency to anarchise public life, but on the contrary: because of our attachment to the traditional one mentioned here by my excellent previous speaker, the principle of subsidiarity. This is the foundation of our civilization. Let's stick to this construction. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u103	Thank you very much. The questions have been addressed by 10 Members. Would anyone else like to join the list? If not, I'm closing the list. At the same time, I set the time to ask a question for 1 minute. I ask you to ask Mr Waldy Dzikowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, this project, the draft law on amending the State Sanitary Inspection Act, is the next step towards centralization of our country. Previously, actions taken by Law and Justice, the Government of Law and Justice concerning ODRs or voivodship environmental funds, or other institutions which received at least the cooperation or influence of the voivodship or district government on cooperation with these institutions, or later the merger with the voivodeship office, with the government administration, resulted in the fact that from year to year the powers of individual local authorities were taken away. There has been a debate for a long time, where safety should be located, for example. sanitary or food. We thought it would be safer if he had such power, or at least cooperates with it, e.g. county council. We thought that it was closer to the citizen then, and in fact the situation is under citizen control. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The PiS, however, is based on the principle that a strong country is a large government. We believe, on the contrary, that a citizen's state, a decentralised state, closer to the citizen, under its control is a safe state and one which guarantees a life in accordance with all institutions and with each other. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u105	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Jack Protas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You have made no argument, I repeat: no argument for the fact that a complete centralisation of health inspection is necessary, that it is necessary to remove local governments, namely the elderly or city presidents on the rights of counties from the impact on the functioning of district health inspections. My question is, do you have any evidence of this, any examples of the old men not being able to work together, or are they not dealing with some supervision of the district health inspectors? Are the old men interrupting? Do these records, which are today, interfere with the proper functioning of district sanitary inspectors? I was an old man of two terms, and I have to tell you that if it wasn't for the money from the county budget, the health inspection in the district (the bell) wouldn't work. And now I ask you, how are you going to completely centralize this institution, then you're going to put in so much money that the health inspection is going to flow into prosperity? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u107	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Here are the arguments. An example of one of the absurd solutions of the previous system of operation of the State Sanitary Inspection. In the Zachodniopomorskie Voivodship, the health inspector had to cross the road from Szczecin to Sławna, more than 200 km to carry out control and supervision activities for entities whose head or founder was the district, e.g. the hospital, the social services house, all the secondary schools, because the district health inspector could not do so because of the direct subordinateness to the old lady who called and called off the county inspector. But he could've been next door. So it couldn't have been an independent decision and it would have been a conflict of interest. A legal nightmare, expensive absurdity. In total, over 1,200 thousand were spent annually throughout the country. zł because of the absurdity of this recipe. A question for the Minister. Minister, does the current Act completely eliminate this absurd, costly provision and resolve it in a legal and very correct manner? But from the district next door, he could come and check it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u109	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u110	This law is quite typical, because there were some irregularities and on the one hand, it is good that the government took care of it - some things are tidying up, but unfortunately not the most important ones for health care. Typically, it shows its phobias, prejudices, pursues a policy of exclusion, collective responsibility - I think of these elements of dehubianism - but at the same time, it takes away further competences from local governments with iron and bad consequences. There's no... The previous speakers were talking about it. Right now, he's trying to take over, because it's really about staff stores, full control of the health department. It eliminates the participation of the old-fashioned, both at the selection stage of the relevant inspector and afterwards, e.g. in crisis situations. That's what my previous speakers talked about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, as this is the main objective, the strategic objectives have been omitted - I will vote against, because that is not what this order was about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u111	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the State Sanitary Inspection Act allegedly aims to improve the situation of entrepreneurs. At least that's in the explanatory memorandum. Neither the content of the law nor the justification give rise to any advantage for entrepreneurs, but it is clear that in this project the powers of local governments, in this case the elders, are removed from the government administration. During the meeting of the Health Committee, the chairman did not allow representatives of the Polish Towns Association, the Polish Districts Association. He claimed that they should agree on which of them should speak and then, when discussing the following articles of the Act, he claimed that they had already spoken, ignoring the fact that they had spoken, but in another matter and at another point in the committee's deliberations. Nor did he address the issue of the lack of agreement on this project with the joint committee of the government and the local government. If, in fact, the draft amendment of the law was not subject to an opinion by the joint committee, that is to say, not only another manifestation of arrogance by the rulers, but also a violation of the laws in force in Poland. I'm asking for a clear answer. Was the bill (the bell) examined by the joint committee and if not, why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u113	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Wojciech Maksimowicz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start with the question. If there's enough time, I'll try to justify it. First, basic question. Minister, in view of the information that has reached Poland in the last two days, about the epidemiological threat of a new koravirus, which, like SARS, can kill thousands of people, and its spread is always a mystery until it occurs... If we had such a system of national coordination against the development of the epidemic, which in an unpredictable way could be a real threat to thousands of people, would this increase the level of protection of our citizens in Poland - anywhere and in Poland? And now, briefly to justify, ladies and gentlemen, I actually wanted to refer to the thought that Mr Braun once said there. Competence should prevail. It is about competence and let us not speak on matters that are so important to citizens (the bell), if we see it very short-sightedly and without knowing things. Here I am in favour of an absolutely clear government competence, from top to bottom, because that's the only thing that can save us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u115	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! This law builds - once again - a lack of confidence in the second segment of public authority, which is local governments. The government wants to say that local authorities, in cooperation with the district health inspector, are unable to provide certain health safety standards. Examples showed good cooperation. I would like to ask the Minister if you have any information about the amount in four years that county authorities and municipal authorities have financed the operation of health inspectors at county level. Secondly, does this law still retain the possibility, the elements of the interaction of the district government, the municipal government with the state district health inspector? And thirdly, is there additional resources in the state budget when the law is to enter into force on 1 March of this year (the bell) to strengthen the operation of inspections, as local government money will no longer appear? If so, what is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u117	Thank you. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that you don't accept local governments has been felt many times. Once again, you are acting to the detriment of local government units. How can you take the powers of the local authorities if you want the local authorities to be responsible at the same time? That's impossible. You see many dangers, and you do not notice that the best of these tasks will be done by the governor, and not - in the long term - by the voivode. These changes of yours are very unfavorable. I have questions. Will this reorganisation change the financing of sanitary inspections? Will they receive sufficient funding for the operation of the institutions? What budget is foreseen for 2020? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u119	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that the bill submitted will deprive the inspections of a lot of support from local authorities, which, in the interest of not wanting to, have so far financed the inspection activities very strongly, is obvious. Therefore, I have a question because, in the draft law, in the explanatory memorandum, there are in principle no additional financial resources foreseen in the impact assessment of the regulation, whether or not the government plans to strengthen its inspections financially and what it will be. And the second question is: Is it planned to strengthen the communication activities related to the risks of non-protective vaccination in relation to these changes? Unfortunately, there is a large social movement, which, in isolation from the facts, tries to conduct an anti-vaccine policy. And here, in Parliament, there are some representatives of this movement, unfortunately. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's a lot of work to be done here. Therefore, will the inspection take these actions and how will they be implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u121	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u122	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have the impression that this project is another example of a permanent desire to exclude as many authorities as possible associated with local government and create vertical structures subject to the health resort. At this moment, the constitution clearly indicates that the Polish state is built on the foundation of the principle of subsidiarity. This principle requires the direct participation of local and regional communities in administrative tasks, including those relating to wider security. And a specific question, Minister: Has the Joint Committee of Government and Local Government consulted this draft amendment of the law? This is a new project, which has been submitted during this term of office. Was this project at the meeting of the Joint Government and Local Government Commission? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And is the position of local self-government units and their representatives known in this regard? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u123	Thank you. The question will now be asked by Mr Romuald Ajchler, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u124	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Actually, these questions that I wanted to ask were asked by my predecessors, and they're already dead, but I'd like to find out, Minister, what actually caused you to decide to take further powers away from local governments. Certainly not what Mr Hoc said, because that does not convince me very much. This is a local matter and maybe this was the case, but it was also possible to replace this old lady with the next one, you shouldn't have done so many kilometers. This would improve the functioning of this area. But we know very well that health care is not only money, it is above all a matter of health and safety of Poles. It's not just about vaccinations. Someone from the Confederation said that the ruling option can do anything because it has the majority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yeah, but there's no constitutional majority, and first you have to ask if it's all constitutional. For the sake of public health. So far I'm predicting that this is another cashier's heist, which was also the case recently, at the previous point, at the previous bill. I would like to ask you, and this is the last question, how much will this bill cost taxpayers, and is the government, because of the takeover, going to finance and transfer funds for the better functioning of the health centre? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u125	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u126	Dear Marshal, I would like to ask the question, which is primarily related to the effectiveness of the whole system, which, from the consumer's point of view, requires that all institutions... be convinced of the full safety of food. This, of course, consists of farming, cultivation, but also all the elements related to what is on the Polish market in the context of consumption, also imported products. Therefore, it is pointless to treat this connection in a small way and to deprive local governments of the possibilities in some way of control. A comprehensive reform should be considered which would allow the institutions to be fully integrated so that they can be effective so that each Pole can have the confidence that food is safe, fully controlled. That is why I believe that this combination, that this reform is only scrappy (The Bell), does not give certainty about the merger of all state institutions which control healthy nutrition and healthy production. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u127	Thank you very much. The list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted. I now ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Janusz Cieszyński to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u128	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions, they also appeared during the committee's work, but maybe we can answer them again. I will start with Mr Protas' question or the old men's question in any way They're bothering us. Of course not. The main objective of these changes is to strengthen the coordination of actions, the good relations between the various health inspectors, between the various, one can say, the judicial lines, between the districts. This is a situation where we had very many signals from entrepreneurs. In my opinion, the situation where we have one rule, one rule, is not good for anyone. Mr Hoc asked about the situation in which another inspector must control when the control concerns an entity subject to an old age. Yes, this proposal really eliminates situations which, as the Member rightly pointed out, have occurred very often. Mr Hardie-Douglas asked - and this question later repeated - whether this project was the subject of an opinion of the joint government and local government committee. Yes, of course he was. If it weren't, the project couldn't have been allowed to work in Parliament. And that was the opinion, this project was proceded, adopted by the Council of Ministers in the previous term, then these opinions were also formulated. However, in this term of office, such confirmation and reassignment to Parliament took place. I would like to remind you that, at the end of the previous term, the project was addressed to Parliament in exactly the same way. Mr. Professor. Maximovich asked about coordination. We are just talking about the fact that this project increases coordination, increases the possibility, you can say, of a joint action which is, which was, in fact, the subject of discussion, particularly important in crisis situations. It goes on for example. those issues mentioned in the Pomeranian Voivodeship concerning natural disasters and situations where cooperation between all services was necessary. The situation in which this verticalisation is carried out is this direct subordinateity, and it is certainly conducive to better cooperation. Mr Tomaszewski asked if we had the information on the amounts of funding provided by the authorities to health inspectors. I must say, we don't have accurate information. On the other hand, I am convinced that local government officials who want very much, which has repeatedly been discussed, to cooperate with a health inspection, will certainly come out of such support, they will not withdraw from such cooperation solely because they no longer have an impact on staffing. After all, you will certainly agree with me, I am talking about the criticisms of this project, that these elders are primarily about securing their residents, not about the cast of posts. You're asking me what's going on with the measures. Ladies and gentlemen, these measures have been and will remain in the budget section for the various voivodships. Therefore, there are no transfers, there are no changes to this issue. On the other hand, if you are asking whether these measures are sufficient, I will answer in this way: last year, for the first time in many years, the entire sanitary inspection received significant increases. Today, you are talking about the need to support a health inspection, the need to add additional resources. When the state and state groups were in charge of these measures for what is most important in health inspection, i.e. the best people, they simply were not. This, too, is the answer to Mrs Navel's question and Mr Suchon's first question. Mr Suchon's second question: What about vaccinations? Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at what the sanitary inspection has been doing in recent years, it is clear that the fight against these anti-vaccine movements, the fight against those who are spreading, as it is now said, fake news about how vaccinations actually work, has intensified greatly. I am convinced that further cooperation, this time much closer, between the inspection, the chief inspector and the district inspectors, will contribute to the fact that these actions will be even stronger and give even better results. Mr Szczerba asked for the opinion of KWRist. Like I said, she was. Mr Ajchler asked why such a change should be made. I seem to have answered that question, too. First of all, it is about support, coordination and cooperation, in order to avoid these unnecessary costs, it can be said that this provincial inspector controls where there is an entity dependent on the old-fashioned. We want a health inspection, let me remind you that it's 16 grand. employees throughout the country were stronger, better coordinated and in even better way than before supported citizens, entrepreneurs in terms of health safety of Poles. Mr Ajchler also asked how much this change costs. According to our estimates, there are no extra costs, no extra jobs. Rather, we are convinced that thanks to this project, thanks to these changes, this inspection will work much better than it has so far under the measures that have been allocated so far. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. The committee rapporteur, Mr Tomasz Latos, will also take the floor in the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you all for the discussion, thank you Minister for the detailed explanations. Amendments were tabled, but also a proposal for rejection at second reading. I will admit that from the perspective of the discussion and the committee meeting, and in the past around the necessary changes in health inspection, this is a rather surprising conclusion, given that we have always agreed on certain directions of change so far. The Commission will take care of this today. In that case, thank you again for the discussion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u131	Thank you very much, sir. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. High Izbo! The Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry submitted a report on the draft law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws, print No 175. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection (prints 63 and 126). I ask Mr Krzysztof Szulowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, print No 63. The aim of the project is to implement European Union law and introduce into the Polish legal order Regulation No 2016/2031 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 October 2016 on protective measures against pests of plants and Regulation 2017/625 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 March 2017 on official controls and other official activities carried out to ensure the application of food and feed law, animal health and welfare rules, plant health and plant protection products. It should be added that this Act, in order to comprehensively replace the current regulations contained in the Plant Protection Act of 18 December 2003, should enter into force together with the proposed Plant Protection Act against pests and this Act will be examined as the next. First of all, plant health tasks will be carried out, as so far, by the bodies of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. The authority which will carry out checks on compliance with Regulation 2016/2031, as well as on the presence of pests, will be the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector. The Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector will also issue administrative decisions where quarantine pests or other pests subject to the control obligation are found. The inspector will also be competent to keep an official register of professional entities, which will replace the register of economic operators under the existing law. The same inspector will also issue phytosanitary, export and phytosanitary re-export certificates. In turn, the Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector will issue consent to carry out research work using quarantine pests, quarantine pests for protected zones and plants, plant products or other objects whose introduction into the territory of the Republic of Poland or protected zones is prohibited. The Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector will also, so far, represent the National Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection outside, including the European Commission and the other Member States of the European Union, the required plant protection information. This authority will also be competent to designate quarantine facilities and isolation facilities. A number of regulations concerning the organisation of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspections remain unchanged. On the other hand, the proposed law regulates in detail the organisation and functioning of laboratories operating for the purposes of the tasks of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection, including the rules for the designation of official laboratories and national reference laboratories operating in the field of plant health and plant protection products. Significant changes include the inclusion in the proposed Act of Regulation 2017/625 of the tasks of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection pursuant to the provisions of the Act on Micro-organisms and Genetically Modified Organisms. Therefore, the inspection will carry out tasks in the field of control and cultivation of GMOs. As has been the case so far, the powers of the Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector to issue decisions on the award of compensation for losses related to the occurrence of certain pests subject to the control obligation have been maintained. The provisions concerning the appointment and dismissal of the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector have also been modified. The aim of the solutions introduced is to ensure that the chief plant protection and seed inspector is more able to influence the work of voivodship plant and seed inspectors and their deputies, because the main responsibility for carrying out the tasks carried out by the voivodship inspectors lies with the chief inspector. According to the proposal, the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector and his deputy would be appointed by the voivode in agreement with the Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector. The second major change is the proposal that the voivodship carry out its duties towards the voivodship plant and seed protection officer and his deputy in terms of remuneration and work discipline in agreement with the chief inspector for plant and seed protection. This will allow the Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector to have an impact on the motivation and the drawing of professional consequences on the persons taking these positions. The requirements to be met by the candidates for the position of the Chief Inspector for Plant and Seed Protection, the Provincial Inspector for Plant and Seed Protection and their deputies have also been verified. Rules governing the authorisation of certain persons who are employees of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection and who are not employed in that inspection to handle matters and to carry out certain activities on behalf of the Chief Plant and Seed Protection Officer and the Provincial Plant and Seed Protection Supervisor have been laid down. These powers will be able to obtain persons who, among others, passed the examination before the committee established by the Chief Inspector in the field of knowledge of plant protection legislation against pests, plant protection products and seed products, certified. However, the obligation to regularly repeat this examination as an unjustified burden on employees of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection has been abolished in comparison with the current legislation in this area. The proposed law also introduces the concept of an official inspector. The Act provides for the maintenance of the powers of the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection to provide certain services. However, a condition has been introduced that this must not adversely affect the performance of its tasks. In general, rules have been laid down on the basis of previous regulations to apply at the time of checks on seals in order to prevent changes in the identity or health of plants, plant products or other objects or to change the identity of pests, plant protection products or seed, as well as the way in which they are authorised to be photographed. Solutions have been put in place to enable the competent authorities to carry out their sampling obligations for goods offered for sale by means of distance communication, including the Internet. Rules have been laid down for the cooperation of inspections with other services, including the police and municipal (urban) guards, and government and local authorities. These regulations are designed to ensure the effectiveness of the controls carried out and to make administrative decisions. The organisation and functioning of testing laboratories for the purposes of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspections has been regulated - the designation of official laboratories and national reference laboratories and their responsibilities. One of the main conditions for the designation of official laboratories in the field of plant protection against pests is the possession by those laboratories of accreditation for the methods used in the whole analytical range in accordance with the standard PN-EN ISO/IEC 17025, which must be confirmed by a certificate issued by the national accreditation body. Until now, these laboratories have not been subject to such a requirement. The new requirement for accreditation must be met by those laboratories by 29 April 2022. The project assumes a change of the subordinateness of the laboratories of the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspections from the subordinates to voivodships within the voivodship of plant and seed protection inspectors to the subsidiary of the chief inspector of plant and seed protection within the Chief Provincial of Plant and Seed Protection. These changes aim to increase the efficiency of laboratories' work, improve the use of financial and personal resources and reduce the costs associated with the implementation of commitments. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development dealt with the draft law at its meeting on 7 January 2020. A number of amendments were tabled in the course of the bill's process, but only of a legislative nature. The draft law was adopted in the vote with no votes against. On behalf of the committee, I recommend the High House to adopt a bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u133	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Gołojuch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my club's position on the draft law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. The proposed law introduces the provisions of the new regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council governing plant health matters into the Polish legal order. Here by the rapporteur, these regulations have already been cited, and I will only briefly remind you that these are Regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council 2016/2031 and 2017/625. The Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection will partially replace the Law of 18 December 2003 on Plant Protection and will define the organisation, principles and competences of the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, which is primarily responsible for the supervision of plant health, the marketing and use of plant protection products and the production and marketing of plant seed. It is proposed to change the organisation of inspection laboratories and to transfer them from the voivodship structures within the voivodship administration to the chief inspector for plant protection and seed management. I would like to point out that all national solutions will be preserved in the area of seed. The proposed law will amend the laws of 9 November 2012 on seeding, 8 March 2013 on plant protection products, 25 June 2009 on organic farming and 12 May 2011 on the manufacture and distribution of wine products, the marketing of these products and the organisation of the wine market. The proposed law sets out the financial consequences of the entry into force of both this law and the parallel plant protection law against pests. High Seym! Minister! Mr. Marshal! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I recommend the High House to adopt the bill of procedure. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u135	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mrs Dorota Sunday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding the draft law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, which must be considered in principle at the same time as the next project, which will be presented, i.e. the plant protection project against pests. These two projects, extensive, technical, change a lot and show how the organization will look like from the technical point of view and regulation regarding the organisation and functioning of laboratories and plant protection inspections, and tell us how the protection of plants against pests will be involved. This proposal implements two Regulations of the European Parliament of 2016 and 2017. As I said, this is quite a comprehensive technical law, which requires in-depth analysis by specialists. That's what we heard on the committee. Our concern is that the definition of seed has been changed. Two organizations - both the Coalition of the Living Earth and the Council of Agricultural Chambers, and on its behalf Mr Wiktor Szmulewicz - pointed out that the change in the definition of seed made in this law could cause quite a lot of trouble, as there may be the impression that there are two kinds of seed. I would like the Minister - and we will ask such questions - to explain it to us. I would also like to thank you from this point of view for adopting the amendment in the second law - as part of a package of two projects - which will help make it easier for producers and exporters to carry out their tasks. We return to the previous provision that persons requesting control will be able to regulate the costs of this check after it has been carried out and not before it has been carried out, which would be a major obstacle. I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club, according to which the club is in favour of and supports the bill. I would ask you to think carefully about changing the definition of seed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u137	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the parliamentary club, the statement will be made by Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Left Club on the draft law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. First of all, we are pleased that this law, which should have been in force since 14 December 2019, will eventually enter into force in 2020. The date of 14 December 2019 implies that from that date we are bound by the provisions of the Union Regulation to which it refers. It is very important, for example. food safety and is also designed to address problems related to inspection work or the quality of laboratory work and their organisation. We are therefore dealing on the one hand with the need to adapt our legislation to EU rules and, on the other hand, with the issue of the organisation of the work of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection. Unfortunately, this law does not solve all the problems associated with the work of inspection workers, the work of laboratories or food safety. We therefore signal that as a club we believe that food safety control in Poland is insufficient, which exposes Poles to numerous diseases resulting from the use of too many often illegal plant protection products, antibiotics and non-compliance with withdrawal in their use. The best example of this is, for example, recent media reports on the finding of residues of glyphosate in groats sold in stores in Poland. Specialists claim that the Minister of Agriculture must be deprived of the possibility of influencing the work of inspections. The problem is also the lack of supervision at the level of counties and the establishment of inspectors at the level of voivodships. It is impossible to control hundreds of thousands of agricultural producers from the voivodship level, taking into account the current number of inspectors and current expenditures on inspection. The financial thread for the inspection should be raised, and it should definitely be increased. With regard to the draft law on which we are proceeding, due to the EU regulation, as well as the fact that the Left is pursuing a responsible policy, we will vote in favour, but we ask that we address issues related to a slightly different organisation of work of the state inspection. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u139	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski from the parliamentary club Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 made his statement in writing. Let's move on to asking questions. The first is Mr Romuald Ajchler, the parliamentary club of the Left. Please, sir. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute, as usual. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, Mrs Niedziela is right. These are two laws that are linked. I am thinking about the Law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection and the Plant Protection Act against pests. It is a good thing that we are debating these projects in this order, so in the next item of order we will consider the project on protection against pests. High Izbo, an intensive discussion took place in the agricultural committee on the draft plant protection inspection act, which covered not only those issues that have already been mentioned here, and above all health issues, the use of antibiotics, the protection of Polish agriculture against pests. Issues concerning what is exported from Poland were also raised. I will return to one matter I want to signal, namely the question of the seal imposed by the Provincial Inspector (The Bell) who carries out the transport of plants and other checks that have not been avoided, and the question of those who do not respect it. Minister, is there any chance, in the perspective of time, that today there is a second reading, to rule out this issue, as was the case in the past? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u141	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a draft bill... I'm sorry, I have to go back for the right footage. Take your time. We're gonna hold off on the countdown. Sorry, that's not the bill. Madam, I cordially invite you, with a smile on your face. Excuse me again. There you go. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the government draft law on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, I address on behalf of the Coalition of the Living Earth with the following questions. Will the documents proving the loss of pests be laid down by a regulation of the Minister responsible for Agriculture? Second question: What does the management competence referred to in Article mean? Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. Four point five? What does knowledge mean in terms of education when it is planned to give up agricultural education? And for what reason is it planned to abandon the requirement of agricultural education? Who's the official inspector? The introduction of a new concept requires definition in the proposed legislation. It is not sufficient to state in the justification that (the bell) is equivalent to the State inspector, especially since the scope of his action is also extended, according to the information given in the explanatory memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u143	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister, question. I would like to know how the laboratory issues will be resolved. Will the current laboratories be under the responsibility of the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspector undergo a new procedure to obtain certification? And if so, will this be based on EU rules? And if so, what will be the cost of this certification? Will all laboratories subject to the State Inspector who are in Poland need to obtain appropriate rules on the certification of laboratories? That's it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u145	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Dorota Sunday from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I will return to the subject of seed and the definition of seed that is changed. In our view, this change will not be a good change. I would therefore like to hear from the Minister, which was the reason for changing this definition. And I would very much ask for an answer other than the committee meeting. At the committee meeting, you said it would increase the share of your own material. But I'd like to ask if that's really how it's gonna be, if it's not gonna be a duality of seed with which seed inspection is gonna be a problem. What does knowledge mean in terms of? In this concept and in this definition we have a view of the seed which meets the requirements for production and quality for a given category, and it constitutes - and here it is pointed out what. I would like an answer, which was the reason for this change and what the consequences of changing the definition of seed will be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u147	Thank you, Member. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Rafał Romanowski. Minister, 15 minutes is at your disposal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u148	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the rapporteur, but also to the High House, for being so urgent about this bill, which, as Mrs Gosek-Polish has noted, should come into force much earlier, i.e.. It shall enter into force on 14 December 2019. But during my first submission to the High House, I explained why this procedure was extended. For example, the discount and termination of the term of office of the Sejm. The bill of both was submitted and adopted by the government during the previous term of office, but it was therefore necessary to re-submit to the government and to present your marshal for consideration. Hence, among others. It's an extension. However, all these provisions that apply to the implementation of EU rules are fully implemented. Mr Ajchler once again raised the issue of the seal. We are talking here, Mr President, about very sporadic cases, about cases where the National Tax Administration, in this case the customs officer, has any suspicions. Only in this case... In this case, nothing changes, there's an identical procedure, just like so far, and only in this case. they shall take action concerning those seals. The question of competition proceedings. Nothing changes in this bill when it comes to competition proceedings. Competition proceedings are still under way. Only a Master's degree or equivalent, a minimum of six years of employment, including three years in a managerial position, is introduced. As you have rightly pointed out, the required agricultural education is deleted, but this is only due to the practice and experience of the chief health inspector. It is simply that in many competition proceedings many candidates did not meet these basic conditions and competition proceedings in voivodships were therefore repeated until the correct candidate was found, which met this statutory criterion. The question of laboratories and accreditation. Hence, among others. this change in the law in terms of the structure of laboratories that will pass from the structure of voivodship plant protection and seed inspectors to the chief plant protection and seed inspector. As I presented in the submission, these laboratories will require new accreditation, in accordance with the regulations in question of the European Union. Since they will go to the main inspector, first of all, it will reduce the costs of obtaining accreditation - the costs of obtaining accreditation and not maintaining laboratories, this is a completely different thing - from almost 28 million PLN to 9 million PLN. And only in this case, as far as this law is concerned, that is the savings - on obtaining accreditation. In this way, when the laboratories receive these accreditations, the chief inspector will be able to e.g. order very specialised studies, required e.g. as regards the various controls. It's seed. I tried to explain it at the committee meeting. As a matter of fact, the proposed government bill on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection amends the Seeding Act. This amendment proposes a new extended definition of seed, I repeat: an extended definition of seed, i.e. plants or parts thereof intended for sowing, planting, vaccination, ophthalmology or other means of propagation of plants, e.g. seeds for sowing. It covers all such seeds, i.e. seeds which are certified seed and seeds which have not been evaluated and which do not meet these requirements but are intended for sowing. In practice, this means that uncertified seed may not be placed on the market, i.e. for sale for sowing. Such a rule will apply to all actors, i.e. undertakings marketing seed and farmers who will sell uncertified seed to other farmers. Such regulation will help to clean up the seed market, protect farmers from traders selling uncertified seed. It will also bring benefits to businesses legally marketing seed. The seed rules apply to the marketing of seeds, i.e. shall not apply to the use of seeds on their own holding. This should also sound, because this was also discussed very strongly at the agricultural committee meeting. On the other hand, the issue of the payment by farmers of own reproduction fees for varieties protected by the exclusive right of variety shall be governed by the Law on the legal protection of plant varieties. This law on the legal protection of plant varieties shall not be amended as regards the project in question. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u149	Thank you very much. I would like the floor of the rapporteur of the committee of Krzysztof Szulowski. 15 minutes at your disposal, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u150	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There were no questions directly addressed to me here. From this point on, I just wanted to thank all the Members for their work on the committee. Despite the extensiveness of the bill, despite the fact that the matter of this law is so extensive, the work was crafty efficiently, there was no great controversy. I thank all Members for their commitment, for the issues raised at the committee meeting. I would just like to address one point, a very important issue which is addressed in the Act on the Accreditation of Research Laboratories. I think that this is a step towards improving the quality of research, ensuring high-quality research, and the staff of these laboratories - as I am a representative of such an institution, which once had the opportunity to obtain and prepare for this accreditation - I wish you hard work and success in this area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u151	Thank you very much. I would like to thank the rapporteur, particularly the Members and the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This law mainly concerns laboratories which are at the disposal of the PIORiN. Laboratory activities are very important both from the point of view of farmers and consumers. It is worth noting that the market for plant protection products against diseases and pests is a market of great value. This encourages various types of counterfeiting, including counterfeiting, illegal imports, leading to inefficiencies in the fight against pathogens. The second task of PIORiN and its laboratories is to control the health and safety of food imported into our country. The lack of effective control also poses a huge risk to consumers. In order to avoid these risks, the PIORIN must be effective and effective, including its laboratories in particular. For these reasons, our club will support the proposed project, despite reservations concerning certain activities of the inspection itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u153	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft plant protection law against pests (prints 62 and 125). I would very much like to ask Mr Zbigniew Dolata to submit a report to the committee. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Plant Protection Act against pests. This law is included in print No 62 and the report - in print No 125. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered the draft law at its meeting on 7 January. The reasons for the bill were presented to the High House by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Rafał Romanowski on 19 December 2019 in the context of his first reading, so I will not refer to the details of this project. Let me just remind you that its essence is to introduce into the Polish legal order the provisions contained in the new regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council: in Regulation 2016/2031 on protective measures against pests of plants and in Regulation 2017/625 on official controls. The proposed law is intended to replace the current plant protection law of 18 December 2003. The adoption of the provisions contained in the draft law is very important in the context of the need to improve the system protecting plant health exposed to numerous, including new pests and ensuring safety in international trade in plant products. During the committee's work, one amendment was tabled and adopted. This amendment was tabled by Mrs Dorota Sunday. The amendment concerns Article. 56 and refers to the levying of inspection fees by the Chief Plant Protection Officer or the Provincial Plant Protection Officers. It specifies that the checks necessary for issuing export certificates will be charged 14 days after the delivery of the bill and not before the check. I would like to stress here that the amendment was tabled by the opposition policy. The opposition often stresses or complains that amendments are rejected. That's not true. If they're material, they're accepted. I hope that there will be more such examples of solid, substantive work, not criticism for criticism. In addition, the committee adopted a number of editorial and legislative amendments which were tabled by the Legislative Bureau. The Commission unanimously adopted the draft law and therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I request the High Sejm to adopt the draft law on printing No 125. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u155	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mr Jerzy Małecki from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, it is my honor to once again present a statement concerning the Government's draft plant protection law against pests, which is contained in print No 62. The project concerns the introduction of solutions limiting the risk of being dragged into Poland so-called. new pests, e.g. alien viruses, bacteria, fungi or pests that attack plants. It also aims to introduce provisions of European law into the national legal order. Protection against pests is important for both the economy and the environment. The fight against new pathogens requires additional protective measures, which increases production costs. The emergence of new pathogens may adversely affect also for the export of our agricultural fetuses. I think there is no doubt about the need to adopt this project. This was expressed - as you just presented the rapporteur of the agricultural committee - just during the work of the Parliament's Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, who unanimously adopted it. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice advocates the adoption of a governmental draft plant protection law against pests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u157	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will support the government's draft plant protection law against pests. The bill under examination implements two important regulations of the European Union. The first concerns protective measures against plant pests and the second concerns official controls and other official activities for the application of feed, food, plant health and plant protection products. Protection of plants against pests is of great economic importance. It is important from the point of view of the national economy and the environment. The plant protection process in Poland will achieve a new legal dimension, which will take place on the basis of new solutions proposed by the government and resulting from European regulations. The validity of this project is to reduce the risk of introduction to the area of a particular country of new organisms harmful to plants liable to cause loss in agricultural or forestry crops. We know well that this process has been accompanied in recent years, firstly, by the intensive development of foreign trade or climate change. The proposed solutions will increase control over the marketing of plant products and commodities in international trade. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In order not to extend: The project has been discussed very thoroughly and in detail, so I repeat once again that our club will vote in favour of the bill under consideration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u159	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Romuald Ajchler from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! (PL) Mr President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, Well, as you can see and hear, agricultural laws are fortunate. Unique happiness is supported by the Left, apart from other parliamentary clubs. We support them when we see you doing something right. Because surely there is no and there would be no agreement of the Left to support a bill that does not meet our conditions. This bill does not correspond to the conditions of the Left and the other opposition, but also corresponds primarily to Polish agriculture and food security, as well as the safety of those who eat agri-food products. And here, in this case, when it comes to plant matters, it also protects these plants from pests. I wanted to say that I can't quite agree with you on the issue of the fact that there were no comments. Besides, you know perfectly well that there are votes for and votes against with such laws. And I give back what you said about Mrs Niedziela. Indeed, Mrs Niedziela was the author of the amendment, with which we could not all agree as an opposition, but among others. I, too, have signed this amendment on behalf of the Left, because I believe that if a service is carried out by the institutions of the State, it is already someone like someone, but the State should not enter into this before the service is carried out, but it is in the normal interest that it is done after. But in this debate, I asked the Minister... The Left has a habit of not discussing much with ideas that go towards bringing Polish law into line with European law. We're not discussing it, we're just looking at it. I asked during the debate on this law, also at first reading and during the work in committee, how much in this law is really about adapting Polish legislation to the European Union, and how many works of our officials. Because I'm judging - and I would ask the Minister to correct, if I'm wrong, and we can discuss it - that 80% this law is the work of our officials, who in different ways assign themselves powers, and 20% This is genuinely a matter of adapting legislation to EU law. I'm the enemy. the creation of the law, if it is enough to change it at 20% according to the European Union and for the security we are talking about today, and to complicate the application of it not only in this draft law - I have just spoken about others - this makes it difficult for farmers to live, it is very confusing with the application of the rules. The Democratic Left Alliance supports this bill and, Mr President, if you make such proposals, you can certainly count on support. We were just debating other laws. I am also a strong opponent, and I also expressed this opinion on the speaker - the Left, yes, the Left - of those laws, because it is a entering into the powers of local governments. You have ideas about what to do to lower taxes and reduce government revenue in terms of income, you must have ideas on how to compensate them for the loss of that income as well. This applies to the entire economy, also directly linked to agriculture. So far, the two laws that you have prepared, also the law that we will be debating in a moment, which concerns the increase of surface subsidies for Polish farmers, the Left supports. But, as I say, avoid this country. And this appeal to the Minister not to take advantage of the opportunity that we regulate the law (the bell), we adapt the Polish law... I'm almost done, Marshal. ...to EU law. Do not take advantage of this opportunity and limit the work of your officials, then the Left will support you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u161	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u162	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the government's draft plant protection law against pests, prints No 62 and 125, solutions are provided to limit the risk of introduction into Poland of so-called plant protection products. new pests, i.e. e.g. viruses, bacteria, fungi or pests that attack plants. The amendment of the rules adapts the Polish law to EU regulations and directives. Protection against pests is important for both the economy and the environment. Agrophages destroy, among others. the crops, and also cause significant defects in the trees. Their fight requires additional chemical protection or quarantine measures, which significantly increases production costs. The introduction of new pests in Poland may have a negative impact on the export of agricultural foetuses. One example is the Ralstonia bacteria found in potatoes in Poland, which limits the possibility of sending these foetuses to the European Union. This agrophag caused a catastrophic famine in Ireland. New pests have been reported in Europe in recent decades, which justifies strengthening the existing rules on exports and imports. An example is a new bacteria that threatens more than 300 species of plants. Most often it shocks plant species of economic importance for Poland. We're talking about cherries, cherries, plums, and other species. The most important plant health tasks will be carried out so far by the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection. The authority which will carry out checks on compliance with the requirements of the Union Regulation, as well as on the presence of pests, will be the Provincial Plant Protection and Seed Inspector. The Provincial Inspector will also issue as at present administrative decisions if the so-called. quarantine pests or other pests subject to control. New developments will be the possibility of identifying areas free from specific pests, which should facilitate the export of goods to third countries outside the European Union. A specific pest-free area will be established by the voivode. On the other hand, restrictions or orders in force in such an area will result from a regulation by the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development. The Commission accepted an amendment amending the deadline for the levy levied by the Chief Plant Protection and Seed Inspector or the relevant Provincial Inspector. Fees shall be paid within 14 days of the date of service of the account. Mr. Marshal! I would like to draw attention to two other important aspects. First of all, it's about art. Article 17 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the draft Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection establishing that an official inspector may be a person who has graduated from higher education. It would be reasonable for them to be compulsory higher education in an agricultural or related direction. In terms of substance, the performance of duties requires a great deal of agricultural knowledge and expertise. Therefore, the employment of middle-school workers in inspections is currently significantly reducing the level of knowledge. I would also like to point out - I have a request to the Minister - that, as regards the workers of this sphere who are responsible for the food security of the nation, the level of remuneration of the civilian corps depends on the basic amount and the multiplier. Minister! Today, the base rate is PLN 2031.96 in accordance with Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) of the government draft budget law. Employees today work on a budget commission. This commission is from 1 January to 29 February this year. They don't know what salaries they're gonna get this year. Therefore, this commission, which is fixed for these 2 months, will be multiplied by a conversion factor of 1.5 to 2.2. The staff of this administration, who are responsible for such an important area of the national economy, call for a look at their salaries (the bell), all the more so since they are in the country of 1870 employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u163	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. I invite Mr Romuald Ajchler from the parliamentary club of the Left, so having a distance, I say that the Left, not the SLD, Mr. We've moved on.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u164	Yes, yes, Mr. Marshal. They're habits. I'll probably get rid of them in a minute, but it's still a matter of time. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Because pests are a danger imported to us or already existing in Poland cases concerning not only arable crops but also coniferous forests, and most importantly and what we see with the naked eye, also deciduous forests. Inability to export when they occur in a given area, the rapporteur has said so, as my colleagues have said in front of me - a great deal of damage to the national economy. I would like to know if you have any calculations, which threaten us in these matters, what danger is there? And then there's the second line. I wanted to point out that we used to have (the bell) - I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal - a disease that didn't allow us to export live pigs abroad. We've dealt with it. I'm afraid that sometimes, by chance, it doesn't involve plant production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u165	Thank you very much, sir. I cordially invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Rafał Romanowski. Minister, you have 15 minutes. If it's short, I'll be smiling at you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to thank the High House for considering these draft laws quite urgently, especially since we are in the international plant health year. Therefore, these laws also meet expectations, precisely when it comes to our Polish plants. But a few of these quite important information that came out and actually raised my deep concern. Mr Zeyewski! We've known each other for years. Budget commission, budget bill is the only law that is subject to four readings. The budget commission does not mean that it is until the last day of February. It depends only on the procedure for proceedings by the High House when the state budget is adopted. Let us remember one basic thing: in the 2018 Budget Act, as regards the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, an increase of PLN 400 was guaranteed for this inspection for each post. In 2019 it was 530 PLN. In 2020 the draft budget law, which is currently being examined, is 6% The guaranteed increase for the State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection, so I do not know what the Member states that, as part of the budget commission, as far as 1/12 is concerned, there is no money in the commission budget for remuneration or there is no guaranteed remuneration in the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. The increase was granted in 2019 and is from 1 August and has normally been entered into the remuneration of each inspector employed in that inspection. This message should be very clear. Mr Ajchler raised the issue of self-creation or more of administrative staff, the central office of the Ministry of Agriculture. Mr President, I would like to make it very clear that, in the case of this law and practically all the laws that implement the provisions of the European Union and implement EU legislation, the proportions are definitely the opposite, as you call it, the joyful work of the Ministry's staff is 10% , maximum 15% and concerns very important things about this law, because this applies, dear country, to the export of plants to third markets, i.e. to countries other than the EU. And even if the requirements that Russia is still standardizing for us, and the new provisions on their part require this kind of amendment of the law. This is why these rules appear, but they only meet the expectations of the social side, where this aspect was raised. This is the issue of this amendment, which was tabled by Mrs Niedziela on the part of the opposition. I would just like to point out - as I said in the previous law, so I will repeat this also with this law - that this law was tabled by the government to the Sejm of the previous term. In view of the discount, this law has been presented to the High House once again to proceed. She is fully implementing EU legislation. But returning to this amendment, I would like to say that this law has been consulted socially twice. During this two-time public consultation, the scope of this amendment did not arise. It only appeared at the committee meeting, it came from the social side on the day of the agricultural committee meeting. All these comments which were made by the social party during the proceedings over this law, as well as the previous Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, were fully implemented in these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u167	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite Mr Zbigniew Dolata, rapporteur. 15 minutes, sir. Why? That's for the honourable Member's recognition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would also like to thank, above all, the Minister, the staff of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, the Chief Inspector for Plant and Seed Protection and his staff, of course, also your Members, especially Members who worked on the committee. There was indeed a substantive discussion. I have already said that the opposition amendment has gained recognition. For the sake of clarity, Mrs Niedziela reported it, but it was submitted by a third party, the Fruit Union, which shows that... Vigilance. Yes. ...people respond to all kinds of social needs. On this point, because Mr Ajchler directed part of his speech at my address, I express some surprise at the approach that the law that we are implementing from the European Union considers unblemished, even ideal, but what the ministries are possibly preparing is a joyful work. I believe that the Polish government, the Ministry of Agriculture, is primarily concerned with the interests of Polish farmers and we are, of course, implementing EU rules, but we are primarily concerned with the interests of Poland, the interests of Polish farmers, because to this, Mr. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u169	Thank you very much. Please, sir, but briefly, please. Let's not fight.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u170	Very briefly. Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Before these laws we discussed, among others, the subject. departments. I want you to read these laws. You will come to the conclusion that much, much is lacking in supporting them, so that the Left can support them, because they have nothing to do with the quality of the work done by the agricultural ministry. And that's what I wanted to say in my speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u171	All right. Thank you very much. I wanted to thank all those who worked on this bill very warmly. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It cannot be denied that the protection of plants against pests is important both for the economy and for the environment. Agrophages destroy, among others. harvests, but also cause damage to the trees. Their fight requires additional chemical protection or quarantine operations, which increases production costs. The introduction of new pests in Poland may also have a negative impact on the export of agricultural foetuses. At this point, however, it seems appropriate to ask for the protection of all groups of producers of agricultural foetuses, with particular regard to the production of bees and the protection of honey plants. Will this regulation not have a negative impact on this agricultural sector?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u173	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. Let the agrophages tremble from now on. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Construction Law and some other laws (prints 121 and 156). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. Come on in. There isn't. Well, maybe I will. The Member is heading our way, so using good rules and a smile on his face, we will wait for a moment. I can be a worthy substitute. However, I think we will wait for Anna Paluch, while respecting your desire, of course. That's how the PiS underestimates us. It's too late. I can't imagine such a... So many people, ministers waiting, all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to move on to the next point, but there are no rapporteurs to the next point, so I will either announce a break, and I would like to wait for a moment, or I will wait another minute to apologize for the Member. Mr. Marshal, maybe there's another rapporteur. No, there isn't, sir, because in an efficient, brilliant and intelligent way I would have ordered the next point, but despite my ability, intelligence and brilliance, I can't do it. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's good, but it's not presumptuous. [[Joy in the Chamber]] So it's not your club. Next point, here I am. I'd be happy to present the committee's report. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The Committee on Agriculture. The government website would be happy to respond. So what? Wait, wait, wait, wait, be patient. Let's wait... Thanks to the courtesy of the rapporteurs and ministers, we still have a shorter time, so... How short? There's a delay, and then there's... But, Commissioner, we have a weekend in a moment, you just have to be tolerant, smiling. Let's show that we can. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal is tolerant. I can. I'm not in a hurry. The only problem is, I can't imagine... Madam, may I pour you some water, for example? [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm afraid of your water. Mr. Marshal, coffee? Would you like a cup of coffee, sir? Thank you very much. And this committee is sitting in Stockholm for so long? Oh, here he comes. He's coming. Thanks to the efficiency of the proceedings and tolerance of the High House, you have not lost your head because we were about to draw your attention. I was in the U building at the committee meeting, but I'm here. Okay, ma'am, but I have a very kind request for you. Very friendly, I'm so cordially admonishing you. Let's hear it. We've been waiting for you for six minutes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. The project is included in print No 121 and the report of the Infrastructure Commission is published in print No 156. The first reading of the project in print No 121 took place at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee on 15 January this year, while detailed work on the project after the first reading was carried out by an extraordinary subcommittee, which I had the honour of chairing. Yesterday, the Committee on Infrastructure considered the subcommittee report and adopted the print report 156, which I am presenting to the High House today. High Izbo! The changes in the project concern the investor's obligations: the procedure for obtaining derogations from technical and construction regulations, the rules for drawing up a construction project, the transfer of a building permit decision, the self-consumption of construction, the regulation of illegal use of the facility, and the clarification of questionable and unclear rules. In addition, the provisions introduced are intended to increase fire safety and ensure the efficiency of the investment process in issuing conditions for connection to electricity, gas, heating, water and sewage networks, as well as the implementation of connections to these networks. The new rules will also clarify the competence to issue permits for the construction of construction works related to maritime affairs, as well as the marketing or making available on the domestic market of construction products. High Izbo! Art. 1 of the project in question contains amendments to the Construction Law Act. Amendment 2 in that Article. 1 clarifies the rules for obtaining permission to derogate from technical and construction regulations. Clarification of these rules should, for example, reduce the number of applications that need to be completed. That there are many conclusions, anyone who knows this problem, knows; e.g. Between 2016 and 2018, the Minister received 9 000. requests for derogation. So that the problem is important and it is worth to clarify these provisions so that these amendments are as small as possible and that the procedure is efficient. A separate issue is the adaptation to the fire requirements of existing buildings in their overbuilding, expansion, reconstruction or change of use. It will not be now - if we postpone this bill and it will come into force - the need to obtain the approval of the architectural and construction administration and the mandate of the Minister. A derogation for fire regulations may be granted in the order of the Regional Commissioner of the State Fire Service referred to in Article. Article 6a (6) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) 2 Fire Protection Act, as is currently the case when granting consent to the use of replacement solutions on the basis of this particular article. Article 6a (6) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) High Izbo! It is of particular importance to amend the eighth and subsequent amendments which order the provisions of Article. 29 and Article 29 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the These provisions have been amended several times. Very numerous references and exceptions have been introduced, which causes huge difficulties in interpreting these rules. How can I put it, a horse with a row of people who, at first glance, decide what procedure he's going to have when it comes to investors? On the other hand, following the revision of the provisions of the Art. 29 and Article 29 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 30, i.e. their new editorial office, each investor will know what requirements must be met in I'm going to say this colloquially: now every investor has like a coffee on a bench everything sorted out in a very communicative and clear way. Namely art. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 contains a list of projects the construction of which does not require obtaining a building permit decision and requires the notification referred to in Article. 30. Examples of such investments are the construction of free-standing single-family residential buildings, whose impact area is entirely located on the site on which the building was designed, or the construction of disinfection stains - I would remind you that we have recently investigated this in connection with the fight against ASF; these few disinfection stains must be carried out in an easy and effective manner. And, ladies and gentlemen, in my mouth. 2 in turn in that Article. 29 is a list of buildings that do not require a building permit decision and do not require notification. These are e.g. Ground-floor farm buildings with an area of up to 35 m2. High Izbo! The lively debate aroused an amendment to Article 15. 1 which refers to Article. 34 Construction rights. Namely, these provisions, which are contained in this project, introduce the division of the construction project into three parts: the project of the development of the plot or land - it is an obligation to carry it out on a categorized geodesic substrate, a map adopted into the stock - architectural and construction project and a technical project. It should be pointed out that, in accordance with the applicable rules, the construction authorisation phase of the body of the architectural and construction administration is only checked with respect to compliance with the design of land or land development, while the rest of the construction project is verified only in terms of completeness, technical solutions are not checked. It is therefore better to submit to the administration only the parts of the construction project that the body is verifying, i.e. land or land development project or architectural and construction project. And that's what's gonna happen. The technical design is necessary at the time of joining the works. The provisions proposed in this amendment to the Act, in particular Article. 42, which regulates the investor's obligations, makes it clear that prior to the commencement of the construction works, the investor is obliged to ensure that the technical design is drawn up and that the construction project, including the technical design, is submitted to the construction manager, if this project is required - but this, on the basis of legislation, depending on the complexity of the construction purpose. It is also important that the number of copies of the construction project to be submitted to the architectural and construction administration is reduced from four to three. High Izbo! The amendment to the 21st provision that the decision on the construction permit is not annulled if 5 years have elapsed since the date of service or announcement, of course if the building has been built. This provision serves the certainty of the investor, to ensure this certainty, i.e. to protect investor rights, because the 5-year period is, it seems, sufficient to touch the decision on the permit if it would violate the interests of entities other than the investor. Amendment 30. in turn and subsequent amendments concern legalisation proceedings. In view of the numerous doubts and difficulties in interpreting the existing provisions, they are harmonised in this amendment. The changes introduced simplify the procedure, introduce a clear consequence of the subsequent steps or steps taken by the building supervisor. This amendment also introduces a new concept or a new procedure: simplified legalisation procedures for buildings completed more than 20 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, the legalisation or reduction of the number of illegally operated buildings is in the public interest because, if the facility is not legalised, it is not subject to proper use rules, there are no technical checks on maintenance in the appropriate technical condition of the building and the safety of users is at risk. And this situation will end if the objects are legalized under certain conditions. In order to legalise it will be necessary to submit a statement on the right to dispose of real estate for construction purposes, post-executive inventory and technical expertise. In this simplified procedure, the Authority will not examine compliance with the spatial planning plan. Since for 20 years the local government - and I remind you that local local authorities at the municipal level create planning documents, i.e. the local spatial planning plan and other documents - the municipal authority did not take any action to make this facility disappear from space anyway, I would say that local local authorities somehow agreed to build it. Incidentally, a 20-year period is sufficient even to acquire ownership by sitting. I'm sorry, but... No more illegal buildings. You can't go through the throat. Every hoarse is waiting, my fellow Member. Don't draw too much conclusions. So I'm saying that a 20-year period is enough to even acquire property rights by sitting. However, simplified legalisation will not be possible in any case. If we were faced with such a situation that, before the end of this 20-year period, proceedings were initiated or, all the more so, a decision was made to stop construction or demolition, this simplified procedure could not be applied. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that simplified legalisation, especially of construction self-inflicted demolition orders, would be unfair to those who have carried out, for example. a demolition order for a particular investment. High Izbo! Changes have been made to the part concerning the issue and implementation of connection conditions to electricity, gas, heating, water and sewage networks. This is what they serve, among others. changes made in the Energy Law Act. It's an art. 5 of the project and in the Act on collective water supply and collection of waste water. It's an art. 7 projects. In general, in this draft, in articles from the article. 2 to Article 23 other laws shall be amended. They are listed in detail in the reference to the title of the Act. In the absence of time, I won't be able to discuss them in detail here. 13 substantive amendments were introduced during the work of the subcommittee. The first three amendments aim to ensure the consistency of the Law of 29 August 2019 amending the Law on the Promotion of the Development of Telecommunications Services and Networks with the amendments made in the Construction Law of this Law. Amendment 4 clarifies instead the description of the construction, I quote, the design design solutions of the facility together with the results of the static-strength calculations in the article. In paragraph 34, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3, which clarifies the content of the technical design. It is clear that it is not enough to describe the structure, you need drawings and necessary calculations. Amendment 5 concerns the withdrawal from the exemption of single-family building investors from the obligation to notify the construction supervisory authority of the commencement of construction works, recognising the correctness of the reservations of the Polish Chamber of Construction Engineers, that the exemption from this obligation of single-family building investors will in fact mean a lack of information for the body about the person who is the construction manager, and the lack of statements by the designer and the checker. We restore the obligation to inform building supervision about the commencement of construction works by the above mentioned investors. Amendment 6 relating to Article. 42 Construction rights in Amendment 26 lead to a direct indication in the Law of cases where a technical design is required so that there is no doubt in this regard. Art. 42, as I said, determines the investor's responsibilities. It also makes it clear that the investor is obliged to pass on to the construction manager a construction project, including a technical project, if this project is required, as is apparent from other provisions. Amendment 7 refers to the simplified legalisation procedure already discussed and amendments 8 to 13 align amendments to other laws with amendments made to this draft in the Construction Law Act. High Izbo! At the stage of the committee work two substantive amendments were introduced. The first concerns the amendment to Article 17. 1 and takes into account the 5% change criterion the construction area as a parameter which determines the significant changes in the design, in addition to those already included - height, length, width and number of floors. Here, too, we have received the attention of the Chamber of Architects. The second amendment adds a new transitional provision in line with the suggestions made by the Legislative Office, which maintains the validity of the existing municipal planning documents, i.e. studies of land-use conditions and directions and local land-use plans. In addition, a number of amendments prepared by the Legislative Bureau have been introduced into the text of the draft. The project as a whole (the bell) was adopted by the Infrastructure Committee by 18 votes in favour, with 5 opponents and 3 abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, please adopt a draft law amending the Construction Law and certain other laws contained in the committee's report in print No 156. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u175	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to invite Mr Aleksandr Mr Forczynski from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the proposed law amending the Construction Law Act and certain other laws in print No 121. This project concerns, as justified, the simplification and acceleration of the investment and construction process, inter alia. introducing a three-part division of the construction project. The first is a project of land or land development. The second - architectural and construction project. Third - technical design. The need for amendments to the Act of 7 July 1994. Construction law results from the need to simplify and speed up the investment and construction process and to ensure greater stability of its decisions. The distinction between building project elements will make it easier and faster to issue decisions, building permits. In addition, the bill contains a number of amendments. I'll name some of them. In the definition of the area of impact of the facility, the expression "use' is deleted, the expression "building' is inserted. It is precisely such an expression that the construction law should deal only with the form of development which concerns construction works and therefore only with construction. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9 changes have been made to obtain derogations from technical and construction regulations. A derogation from the technical and construction regulations may not be granted in the framework of legalisation proceedings. In the context of the changes made concerning the division of the construction project into parts, it is important to emphasise the fact that in Article. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1, which is not amended by the Act in question, refers to the construction project as a whole. The primary objective of the Article is: 29 of the proposed amendments are to facilitate investors to find out which works require notification instead of obtaining a building permit and which do not require a construction permit or even a notification. This article introduces a catalogue of objects whose construction requires notification. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 31 amendments have been made to clarify the issues relating to the declaration of demolition of the building. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 33 updated the concepts for the construction project resulting from its new division and amended the required number of projects attached to the application for a building permit decision from four to three. It should be stressed that construction works for which it was required to obtain a building permit decision may only be carried out on the basis of a construction project, including a technical project, and under the supervision of the construction manager. Designed art. 36b of the Act requires the construction manager to make available to the construction supervisory authority the current technical design at any request. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 53 separate Chapter: Completion of construction, which aims at ordering the rules on this issue. The proposed Act introduces amendments to the laws on protection of public buildings, Energy Law on real estate management, on collective supply of water and waste water discharge, and on spatial planning and development. The project has a clear positive impact on entrepreneurship by simplifying procedures for the implementation of construction investments. The project complies with European Union legislation, is not notified and does not require submission to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice fully supports the bill submitted, print No 121. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u177	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The presented project is another legal bubble, which you will correct many times, like any law passed in such a hurry, because it is so underdeveloped. Why are you in such a hurry? So short vacathio legis, i.e. Six months, with such a long-term bill? After all, investment is our economic development. You can't destroy everything by giving away just to win the election. The draft of this law assumes, among others, division of the construction project into three parts: plot development project, architectural and construction project and technical design. Construction permit - after the architectural and construction project. Such a division will not accelerate the implementation of the objects. There will be more permits to build, but less committed investments. But maybe that's what this is about. There will be more permits for construction under the Success's off the hook. It doesn't matter if there's less housing. Currently, the Ministry is discussing the introduction of BIM technology, namely Building Information Modeling, where all industries work on a single model, so it is justified to design comprehensively and not to exclude an architectural project, as proposed in the bill. In many countries, that's standard. This law runs counter to the needs of such modern design, although many of our national studios are already starting to apply this technology. The government wants to build a Central Communication Port. Hundreds of subcontractors. Such a project according to this amendment will have an approved development plan, then architectural and constructional, and then: scooter soul, hell is not there. And if it doesn't work, he won't even be guilty, because that bill will dismantle the control system. Since 2021, it will not be practically possible to meet the energy efficiency standards of buildings without properly designed building installations, i.e. without a technical design. Aren't you going to verify this by issuing a building permit earlier? Next shift. The application for a building permit will have to be accompanied by three copies of the construction project, not four. No relief, because two were for an investor who would still have to print for contractors. Ladies and gentlemen! The problem with the construction process is not the time of obtaining a building permit, because it is a maximum of 65 days, but the number of decisions, permits, arrangements and consents. In this respect, nothing changes in this law. The failure to challenge the decision of the building permit after 5 years, which the rapporteur had just bragged about, is a reference, as I understand it, to the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2015. The legalisation of at least 20-year-old construction self-confidence is also introduced, even those that are incompatible with the local spatial planning plan. Who's gonna judge these 20 years? Who's gonna say? Neighbors or the owner himself? It's just corrupt. There will be an outbreak of reports, because it will turn out that all illegal constructions in Poland are 20 years old. There is no deadline until it can be reported. Can they report users of eternity? That's underdeveloped, too. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as suffrage is concerned before 1995, we have a problem with this, but it regulates the construction law of 1974. Don't tell us this is about those old construction sites before 1995. This is about the latest ones. This drive to legalize is to reward dishonesty. This is unethical to those who build honestly and legally. This will introduce spatial chaos across the country, which will have negative effects for decades. In this bill, particular interests win against the good of the whole community, i.e. the urban order in our country, the responsibility of the government - because after us even the flood. That's how I feel about this bill. For example, kitty houses on Podhale... Very subjective, Member. Very subjective. ...in a form that is not reminiscent of the Podhale style, which is already a legendary example of Polish ugliness, illegal buildings, now they will be sanctioned forever. These are very large and effective changes in the law introduced quickly and chaoticly with many poorly refined records, so the Civic Coalition Club makes amendments, and if they are rejected - a motion to reject the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u179	Thank you very much. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u180	Ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult to summarize in short words this very big project. This is a very large project, which is a very large patch for very painful problems. Only a patch, unfortunately, because these changes in the Construction Law that we are dealing with, of course, adapt this right to modern requirements, of course, are needed in many places. Working in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Sub-Committee on the Functioning of the European Union, This project, we've been trying to improve it. Absolutely. Let me put it this way: it has largely worked out, e.g. We wanted to postulate as the Left, to make an amendment on the obvious oversight that the construction self-wills could also be legalized, for which demolition decisions have already been issued or for which proceedings have been initiated, but this error has already been corrected by the amendment made by the PiS. I'm so glad it happened. However, even though we have tried this big project so well, for which I thank the president of the subcommittee very much, it is still, as I said, only a patch for problems that are swelling up and which are still unsolved. We have been waiting for years for the urban and construction code. The work on this project has been discontinued and the latest news from 2018 is that it is unknown where this project disappeared. The government suspended work on k.u.b., which was to bring a solution to many burning problems both investors, cities, developers and local governments, and simply residents who are still waiting to solve certain specific problems. Well, as far as the urban and construction code is concerned, the versions of which were actually drawn up and for the previous government, and in the previous term of office of the PiS government, I hope that there is still work on it somewhere in the corridors of the Ministry, although we do not know anything about it yet. He had, among others. dealing with it - I'll remind you because I want us all to remember it - among other things. with the so-called corruption. Wookies, with compensations that rob local governments' money, with planning compensations, with a nightmare of good neighborhoods, with chaotic buildings, but that environmental proceedings are separate from normal construction permits. It was all supposed to be settled, ladies and gentlemen. We, as the Left, are appealing to the ruling party and we ask very much for this reform of planning and for a comprehensive urban and construction code. We have decided not to interfere with the work of this law, i.e. not to hold it back as a Left, but we cannot support it either, as it is a kind of temporary solution. So, by appealing to the Minister and to the whole government, we ask: let us approach both construction and planning comprehensively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u181	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jack Tomczak from the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the parliamentary club PSL - Coalition Poland, I am pleased to present my position on the Act amending the Act of 7 July 1994. The need to simplify and speed up the legislative process of the Construction Law and to ensure greater stability in the resolution of the amendment is an expected legislative move. The novel aims to clarify the responsibilities of designers and administrations, among others. by dividing the construction project into a project for the development of a plot or land, an architectural and construction project, a technical project. Some elements of the projects will be subject to verification by public administrations and only designers will be responsible for the correctness of others. This should improve and speed up the adoption of decisions on building permits or the acceptance of applications with the project. Furthermore, the division of the construction project is expected to reduce the burden on the architectural and construction authorities and to allow faster preparation of the design documentation to the extent necessary to obtain the building permit decision. Due to the proposed regulation, the scope of the construction project and its individual parts are changing. It is also necessary to make adjustments to the new construction project concept in other legal acts. We welcome the fact that the draft amendment reduces the excessive documentation requirements when applying for a building permit and reduces the costs necessary for investors to bear. The procedure for obtaining derogations from technical and construction regulations is also simplified and the decision-making powers are transferred from the Minister to the architectural and construction body. The purpose of the amendment is to make it easier for investors to determine which construction works need to be notified in exchange for obtaining a building permit and which do not require a construction permit or even a notification. The Act establishes a catalogue of works exempted from the obligation to obtain a building permit decision based on current solutions in this respect, introducing modifications to simplifying the investment and construction process. The project introduces changes to facilitate the development of automation of communication and postal services, such as tickets, deposits, sales machines, packages. They will be exempted from the obligation to obtain a building permit and to make a notification. The position of the investor vis-à-vis public authorities is also strengthened as a result of the introduction of a time limit of 5 years for the annulment of the building permit decision. Until now, the annulment of the decision on the construction permit could be found many years after the building was built and used. A closed catalogue of cases for which the establishment of a construction manager and a construction inspector is required has been established. Issues related to the legalisation of construction self-regulation have also been simplified, the demolition issues concerned have been simplified, so that the project is moving in the right direction. It is probably not a perfect work, but it certainly makes it easier for investors. These changes together with a number of other changes envisaged in the project represent, in our opinion, a clear step in the right direction, which is why the Coalition Poland Parliamentary Club will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u183	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnierz from the Wheel of the Posel Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u184	Hello, Mr. Marshal! Previously, you felt affected by the lack of this formula, so I would stress that you're welcome. The Confederation is also happy to welcome all expressions of desire for liberalisation, deregulation, reduction of bureaucracy, any desire to relieve our citizens wandering in this jungle of rules produced without pity by our House in wholesale quantities. And that's what this bill promises us. We are talking about simplifying procedures, giving up unnecessary requirements. We have a re-editing of some vague regulations here. These are certainly things that deserve to be supported. Unfortunately, you're shaking over these changes like a cat over a bathtub. Courage! Courage! Really, try to untangle the knot instead of just cutting it. That may not do much, because if you cut one head in red tape, the hydra immediately releases two more. Here, in many cases, we take two steps forward and one step backwards. For example, we eliminate the possibility of obtaining a derogation in the legalization process. He could've done it by now. In your explanatory statement, you point out that some courts allowed derogations, some didn't, and it needs to be straightened out. But why in this direction? Since such apostasy has been possible so far and the world has not collapsed, what would be wrong if it were still possible to obtain it, only in a uniform way. First of all, you leave the concept of self-confidence to the law. The concept itself is such a monument to socialism. This concept is based on the belief that there is something wrong with the fact that the owner himself decides what is built on his plot, without asking any officials. It doesn't fit in the heads of the socialists. You've just regretted that we're going to have a disorderly urban order. It's not like we have any urban order. Where do you see any urban order? We're in a mess. And all of this under the very authority of the building surveillance you are talking about, and so, as you can see, it doesn't help at all. We don't need construction surveillance at all. We need clear responsibility, simple rules, strict penalties when these rules are violated. There was a simple responsibility in the Hammurabi Code: if the building collapsed on someone's head, the builder was punished with death. We're all in control, and no one's responsible for anything. It is a miracle at all that in such a system any buildings arise and do not fall on their heads. If they don't fall apart in this system, they won't fall apart in any other system either, so really, again: courage! Let's go ahead and liquefy this bureaucracy, and not just crawl in and out. Two steps forward, one step backwards. There is no construction supervision in many countries. So? And there is no correlation between the incidence of any construction disasters and the liberalisation of the law. And the last such accent, note, in connection with this project: the subcommittee of a representative of the Confederation was not allowed. We didn't get an allocation due to the parity. It follows from these parities that during the entire term of office the Confederation will have round zero seats in all subcommittees. Behind that, I mean. against my proposal to extend this committee, they voted hand in hand both against the opposition and against the Law and Justice. Unless we expected anything else from the Law and Justice, because this arrogance of power has been repeatedly diagnosed, but from the opposition... The opposition often complains of arrogance here, that the Law and Justice are so relentless about it. Meanwhile, when you have the opportunity to hurt a smaller one, you also have the courage to spare yourself the pleasure. So don't whine about it. You're no better at anything. Despite some reservations, the Confederation will support this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u185	Thank you very much, sir. By the way, I wasn't offended, I just wanted to say hello to you because I like you. I just like people. Watch out for that declaration. Ladies and gentlemen, 12 people have come forward to ask questions. Would anybody else like to come in? If not, we close the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. And I cordially invite Mr Konrad Frysztak from the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition. There you go. And if there isn't, I cordially invite Mr Przemysław Koperski from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The position of the left club was presented. It is very good that we are making some changes to the Construction Law. But there is a conclusion, a request and a question: Why didn't the designers try to change far or deeper? Just yesterday, we were briefed by the Vice President of the Supreme Audit Chamber with a report on irregularities in the activities of district building surveillance inspectors. It shows that on the one hand we have the Construction Law, we improve it, but on the other hand there is currently no institution in Poland that would be able to uphold (The Bell) this right. And I would very much like to ask that these issues also be regulated in this amendment. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u187	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! With a minute at my disposal, I wanted to raise one specific, small, but important issue, especially for monument conservationists who report it. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Paragraph 7 Point 2 (1) of the Construction Law states that specific technical conditions for buildings will be laid down by the relevant ministers in the relevant regulations. The Minister of Infrastructure in Paragraph 3 (16) of the Regulation concerning the technical conditions to be met by buildings, in Paragraph 3 (16), referring to the floors, excludes from being regarded as a floor any equipment which is located on the roofs of buildings. So the roof of the building and what's above the roof is not considered a floor. Meanwhile, investors on these roofs put elevator shafts, put air conditioning, ventilations that denies these buildings (the bell), and conservators... I wanted to ask: Will this problem be taken into account either in this amendment, in which it is not included, or in the regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u189	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill introduces the legalization of at least 20 years of construction self-confidence, even those that are illegal. I wanted to ask: What about the Polders, what about the construction on the Polders? I asked that at the committee meeting. I've heard it regulates the Water Law, which is not true. You're gonna legalize self-will there, too? What about illegal villas in gardens? Please answer these two questions in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u191	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Wojciech Saluga, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u192	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! What kind of service does not work effectively, slowly, with delay, does not respect the c.p.a., what this service does not respond to winning by itself, does not perform replacement works, the effectiveness of the procedure is at 40% ? That's building surveillance. I also refer to this report by NIK on 19 June last year, which should be the management of the Ministry known, and which shows that in some areas of the Polish State the construction law does not work, is kind of suspended, because there is absolutely no supervision there. This report is very bitter, sad and tragic and must be leaned over. We have resources that are inadequate to our needs, we have resources that are inadequate to our tasks. In this bill there are several (the bell), more than 20 times mentioned building supervision and these are fictional records, obliged to perform these records are often so fictitious services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u193	Thank you, Mr Zagłębowski. I invite Mrs Krystyna Sibinska. Sibinski. Lubuskie? Lubuskie. Nice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two specific questions. Will construction engineers be able to carry out land and land development projects and architectural and construction projects? That's the first question. Please answer me. Second question. How, by removing the provisions on necessity, are you obliged to provide the relevant institutions designated by the Minister for the safety of hazardous objects such as refineries, chemical plants, nuclear power plants, for example, to ensure the safety of these facilities if you delete this provision? Because I understand that when a technical project manager is delivered by an investor, no one will be able to check whether that is the opinion or not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And why would a construction manager want that opinion? This must go to the appropriate institutions that will find that such an object will not endanger safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u195	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With Members' on-calls - two burning problems that the residents report, it is a long waiting for permission to build and chaos, and an attempt to build anywhere and anywhere. Especially this first case, it seems, may be solved by the bill, but it just seems. Do you know what is the longest time I've ever had to wait for the construction approval I've ever met? 3 years. 3 years. And now will the bill solve this problem? I don't think so. The fact that it will be written slightly differently and slightly different documents - not here is a difficulty. I would like to ask if the bill regulates the extension of consent. This case is not settled, and officials are demanding one more and one more document, and one more document, as long as this period is one year, two years, three years old, and then you have to change the project (the bell) and everything starts over again. That's the first problem. And I ask you to answer: Is there a system, I don't know if punishments, but is there a solution to the matter of extension of consent, or is it a slightly different formulation of rules that really doesn't change anything, and it doesn't really help developers or private investors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'm no specialist in construction law, but given that the most important thing in the country is the safety of the law and the enforcement of obligations... How is it that someone without permission built something next to us that bothers us, and after 20 years of inability to enforce the law, when someone without permission, without any agreement, built something in our neighborhood... At the moment it turns out that all those who have been executed, and often these are the people who built a fence in another place, this fence had to be knocked down and built again at their own expense, there are many such situations... Suddenly it turns out that all these people were unnecessarily doing their duty and doing their duty, because someone else 20 years past the law, will now have legalized it (the bell), which for 20 years was lawlessness, and which we could not cope with. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u199	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good thing you won't need permission from the district police chief. But how does this apply to existing buildings? At present, fire regulations are required for those buildings that were built 20 years or even more years ago and were put into service. Will it not be necessary to adapt existing facilities to the new regulations in connection with this law? Because it involves huge financial expenditures and entrepreneurs engaged in economic activities, e.g. Holiday homes, hotels, pay huge expenses for renovation purposes, adapting to these regulations. Will they be treated in accordance with the rules in force, existing at the time of surrender (The Bell) for the use of the object? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u201	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have a general question for the government representative. The Construction Law was established in 1994 and has been in force since 1995. It's been a long time. That law, the initial law, which we are now improving, was to adapt the Polish law to new market conditions - local governments, relations - because the old building law concerned the times of socialist Poland. Therefore, it is reasonable to ask whether, after 15 years, instead of making so many changes to this project, which we are discussing today, whether the government should actually present a comprehensive new solution, all the more so as construction in various forms is developing very quickly, it is precisely the Urban and Construction Code. My question is, is the government working on this code? And if so, when will he introduce him? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u203	But you shot yourself in time, sir. Mr Romuald Aichler, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Construction law is already, was, the city code also, comprehensive planning also, but in order to build it, you have to have something to build on. You have to have land that will allow this kind of situation. Municipalities and cities have developed spatial planning plans, and these plans often show that investments - also reserved for construction purposes - will never be created there for various reasons. Once the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city had a vivid imagination and figured out that there would be one bypass and three bypasses around the city. The land is reserved in the land development plan while blocking private property. Whether you intend to unblock this land or have an impact on the fact that local governments do not abuse (the bell) the law, also on the public purpose, because it is very often abused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u205	Thank you, sir. Mr Mariusz Trepka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank Mrs Annie Paluch for the smooth running of the subcommittee. In this subcommittee, we have just discussed various proposals for solutions. There were a lot of questions about why we split the project into three parts. I'd like it to sound out of that podium. Minister! Exact information. Is a technical project necessary to enable an investor to carry out construction works? This is my short question and I would like the Minister to answer, because many discussions have been conducted in this direction, why will it not be necessary to submit this technical project to Division AB in local government units where these departments are located? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Tomczak, parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This amendment is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. It is undoubtedly also the case that it will not solve all the problems of longer construction procedures today and poorly functioning construction supervision. We have, for example, a very painful NIK report for building surveillance, which draws attention to a number of different errors and shortcomings in the work of this institution. I think it would be worth the discussion that was going on about the building law, to go on. Are there any plans to continue to change the Construction Law and to make a comprehensive amendment - one that will give entrepreneurs more impetus in Poland and the chance that these procedures can be shortened? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Designed changes are an abolition aimed at legalising lawlessness and action against spatial loading. It is also a change that is intended to unlock the trashed proposals of building supervision, because procedures are difficult, long and expensive. But how can we be sure that authorized people who confirm that the building is safe will do so according to art? Assuming hypothetically that e.g. The builder will confirm that the building is safe, and then something will happen, so who's gonna answer for it? Isn't it true that construction self-wills are also guesthouses, hotels that do not meet fire standards and other technical conditions? The law for today is dimpled and therefore it is possible that a working hotel or guest house is de facto a self-confidence building. Isn't it better to stop this project until the legal holes are patched up and regulations are introduced that will prevent building self-confidence? What government plans to make changes to the law so that in the future, construction will not be created? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And whether the next change proposed by the government will not be e.g. Putting green areas covered in rubble in parking lots? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u211	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development of Minister Robert Nowicki to speak. Minister, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for the votes that have been made so far in the discussions, for the work that has been done so far in committee and subcommittees. As important and important as this project is, it shows how many discussions and consultations have been held. First of all, I would like to refer to the statements made by the clubs. I will not agree here with Mrs Margaret Chmiel, who said she was a bullshit, and about the work being done with speed, too quickly. The fact that a subcommittee was set up, that more than 120 industry organisations were involved in the consultation process, and that amendments were adopted as a result of the work in the committee, the subcommittees, shows that we are listening to the voice of stakeholders. Speaking of BIM, yes, BIM is an important element of modern design, connected not only with design, construction, but also with maintenance. As we heard at the committee's meeting: on the contrary, the introduction of a technical project results in full compliance in BIM. We are not entering, Mrs BIM, absolutely. I would just like to inform you - unfortunately, there is no Member - that we are conducting a project in the Ministry together with the European Commission on the introduction of the standard of the BIM model for the area, the territory of Poland, so that it is in line with what architects say, what engineers say. As regards the allegation that installations will be dangerous: no, there are certain fuses that the State has spoken of here - and the Member has also spoken of them, thank you for the report - they have said, and the mechanisms introduced into the bill make the technical design absolutely necessary before the construction begins, and the architectural and construction project itself assumes some general intentions for the installation. So much controversy brings about a 20-year novel here. Well, we forget one important thing, safety. If for 20 years the administration... If during this period the impact of this building was not so annoying that proceedings were initiated which ended with an order - and I would also like to make it clear that as a result of the review carried out by the Chief Inspector of Construction Supervision it was found that these proceedings are not chronic, they are carried out very quickly if the nature of these cases is taken into account... I think we're forgetting one more thing about art. 103 Construction rights, about these old civil liberties - they could still be based on Article. 103 legalized. Finally, if we are talking about the economy, let us not forget investors, and the voice of investors is unambiguous in terms of the amendments introduced. I would very much like to thank Hanna Gill-Friday for this favourable vote, because, as we have heard, changes are needed and have been made through legislation. I would also like to inform you that when it comes to spatial planning - this is a question about the suspension of these works - on 20 January the work of the team on the development of the Spatial Planning Act was resumed. This is another important element that will connect with this process, with the Construction Law. I think that I will now come to the specific questions of Members of Parliament and Members, and I will address them in order... Mr Przemysław Koperski asked why there are no deeper changes. It's about the report on irregularities in the county building surveillance inspectors. Well, we're thinking about reforming building surveillance, we're planning it. We are aware that in the case of such an extensive matter, such a large element of the impact on reality... Construction law is a network of connections, it's a network of connections with other laws, it's an impact on specialities, it's an impact on infrastructure, it's an impact on quality of life. We are here in constant contact with the Chief Inspector of Construction Supervision and we are planning a wider reform of building surveillance so that it is the bodies of A, B... so that the Inspector of Construction Supervision can effectively manage its resources. Katarzyna Kretkowska - technical conditions. Thank you for your attention. We are working on a new regulation on technical conditions and we will look at this problem, because such signals have come to us, these voices are audible. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel - polders and gardens. I understand that this issue - in writing. I will only say one thing: today we just at the request of the Polish Departmental Association, who reported his attention yesterday, analyzed it. Today, talks with the Polish Landowners' Union continued. So that we are not immune to these arguments. I'm also rejecting the booze charge, the hasty mode. Mr Wojciech Saluga - self-will and enforcement proceedings. This is also a question - as we say, I presume, I understand - of the quality of the work of building surveillance inspectors. I just want to remind you that last year's PiS government introduced the expected increase of PLN 500 per person and this year, the draft budget law provides for 6% for inspectors of construction surveillance. the increase from the base amount. This shows clearly that legislative reform goes hand in hand with the issue of improving the quality of work of people who work in the services of building surveillance inspectors. To answer Mrs Krystyna Sibińska's question: yes. I can definitely answer: yes. Engineers will be able to design. As far as the expert opinion is concerned, in our opinion... First of all, you have to realize that these are not mass matters. These are specific matters that govern the provisions of other laws. The provisions of other laws require that appropriate procedures, appropriate criteria be maintained, whether in relation to material or in relation to the procedure of application. Looking at this and examining requests for opinions that affect us, to the ministry, we are not in favour of maintaining this legal status, because the provisions of other laws will still require compliance with the requirements for these specific investments. I understand that both projects. Management and...? Yes, of course, both. What I'm trying to say is that we don't go into specialty power here. We even force industry coordination by law at the stage of the creation of these projects, in the field of specialty. This is important. It's important to maintain this coherence. We push this off and optimize the process of the creation of this work, and this is according to BIM. Whatever the case, let us remember that BIM is just a technique, not a design method. We have all this in mind, looking and listening to this voice, as I stress, 120 industry organisations. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak - the question of extending the consent. I would like to remind and say that the provisions that we already have in the legal order concern 65 days. If this is more than 65 days and the body is guilty, it is 500 PLN for each day of delay. I think it's disciplinary for consenting authorities, building permits. We, of course, monitor this situation and try to counter the various mechanisms that cause delays, because, as I said, the economy is investors. We want people who build single-family homes, eventually investors who build multi-family housing, but also build commercial zones, industrial construction areas... The aim is to manage this and the pace of investment growth - and investment is undoubtedly mostly related to construction - to maintain. As for Mrs Dorota Niedziela's attention, I think this is a general discussion that took place here, in front of the High House. I would like to say and address Mrs Chmiel's words about Podhale and ugliness. Madam President, the law does not apply to the sense of aesthetics. The law must be based on certain clearly standardised criteria. If you see such a threat in the form of self-confidence, each of us can submit such a notification to the appropriate authority - for these authorities to check it out. Those 20 years, on the other hand... I will remind you of what Mrs Paluch, the rapporteur, has said for these 20 years. When adopting local spatial planning plans at the level of the municipality, it is the obligation to inventory self-reliant, illegal buildings. If the municipalities have not done this or do not have enough effect on neighbouring areas, on surrounding areas, then let us give these people the opportunity to enter the system. And what does that mean: entering the system? I mean, to be subject to periodic checks, to pay real estate taxes. It is about a certain degree of social stability in relation to residence. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek raised an important issue here, but it is not a matter of construction law, but of the Fire Protection Act. I agree that this is an important problem. In the dialogue with the State Fire Department, we also analyse this topic. For today, neither I nor the Chief of State Fire Department can see such a threat here. As far as Mr Romuald Ajchler is concerned, it is not a matter of building law either, Mr Ajchler. This is a matter of separate laws. I am aware, and I know what you mean, but this has nothing to do with the process of designing the new rules. As regards the attention or question by Mr Mariusz Trepka, I would like to make it clear to you that such a technical project, which is a set of documents, will be required. And here I want to particularly lean over the article. Article 41 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4a point 2 of the Act, as it requires the investor to join the notification of the intended date of commencement of construction works - and I would remind everyone that they will have to submit such a notification of the intention to start construction works - a statement by the designer and a designer verifying the design of a technical project concerning the purpose of construction in accordance with the applicable regulations, with the principles of technical knowledge, the design of the plot or site and the architectural and construction project. So we have the same coherence between these three parts. I would also like to say that, in turn, the provision of the article. Article 45a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) Point 1 And the construction manager shall, in the case of an inspection by the supervisory authority, submit to that authority, at its request, a current technical design. Ladies and gentlemen, the division is unambiguous and welcomed by investors. The technical project is a specific project, a project that often requires updating, which, if there are no significant derogations, does not need to be updated at the level of the AAB. This is needed by the supervisory authority to check the technical condition, verify the compatibility of the actual state of construction with the current plan. As far as the next questions are concerned, I'd like to move on to them. Mr Jacek Tomczak. Yes, Mr President, as I said at the outset, looking at the issue of spatial planning and the issue of the law, a very important law, which is very wide-ranging, we see that it is not only a problem of spatial planning and this law, it is not only a problem of local plans, it is a problem of quality of life, it is a problem of protecting certain urban goods and tissues in the architectural and construction system. If we are talking about amending the Spatial Planning Act, we will need to change the Construction Law. We're aware of that. One last question, Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak. I think that the pace of work (the Bell) and the ease itself - here I would like to address the issue of how we propose to reduce, how we think to reduce the amount of self-reliantness - the facilitations that the article brings. 29 talking about the notification or the failure to notify, the authorisation replaced by the notification, makes it easier for people to carry out the investment process. Let us remember that self - wills were mostly about things that were related to single - family construction. We made it easier. The state of consciousness of people and these facilitations, as predicted, forecast, will make these self-consciously less and less. Mr. Marshal! High House! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u213	Thank you, Minister. I invite the rapporteur, Ms Anna Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u214	Thank you very much. High Izbo! I would like to thank representatives of the Polish Coalition clubs and the Left for their statements of support for this project. I'll say it again. With all our responsibility, we tried to listen to representatives of the social side in the subcommittee and in the committee, to listen to critical voices, to draw conclusions and to try to clarify the rules in such a way as to resolve the doubts of different circles, because the stakeholders have the right to express their opinion. It is regrettable that the statements of the Civic Platform club were so unsubstantiated. Well, Member, my non-essential questions? I'm going back to BIM technology again. We have talked three times, because Mrs Chmiel has called for this discussion on BIM technology and three times the representative of the Polish Chamber of Architects and in the debate in the first reading and in the debate in the subcommittee, and in the debate in committee he has made it clear that the amendments to the bill do not go across, but on the contrary, they are in line with the new technologies that are being introduced. And this problem, which was raised by the Member, looks completely different. Ladies and gentlemen, as regards the issue that we are not introducing anything important in terms of consent and speeding up the procedure, I will say it again. I was talking about art. 5 and 7 containing amendments to the Energy Law and the Act on collective water supply and waste water discharge. Let me remind you that in the article. The amount of the fine to be paid in the case referred to in paragraph 5 relating to the Energy Law shall be clearly stated. 1 point 18, i.e. prolonged arrangements, must not be less than PLN 1500 per day of delay in issuing the conditions for connection to the network. And in the article. 7 on the Collective Supply Act, paragraph 7 is added. 3a as follows: The monetary penalty shall be subject to a water and sewerage undertaking which does not issue conditions for connection to the network within the time limits laid down in Article. Article 19a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) So, there are laws that discipline the right players, and that should obviously have an impact on speeding up proceedings. In general, thank you for the discussion. I'm sure the bill will contribute to this... Oh, one more thing, the question of the Confederacy saying that building self-will is a communist concept. Ladies and gentlemen, no. Spatial planning takes place at the municipal level and we must make efforts in this direction, however, in order to shape public space so that it does not hurt the eyes. If you're going to Italy, the whole of Italy looks like one of the architectural guidelines came out. So you have to take actions that will affect the quality of the common space. On the other hand, we have heard that there is no urban order here. Within the limits of common sense, it is necessary to ensure that space is shaped in a planned, coherent way, one that will provide us with life in beautiful space, and it is difficult to make these efforts as if it were. Of course, everything must be done within the limits of common sense, because, on the other hand, we are faced with the allegations of entrepreneurs that the excessive complexity of the preparatory process for investment is the great cost of doing business. The role of the legislator, responsible legislator, is to balance these various voices from different sides and try to shape the law so that everyone can defend his or her interests and ensure that public tasks are carried out in such a way that the community lives in the best possible conditions, and these better conditions are also life in beautiful space. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u215	Thank you, Member. I thank Members and Members. Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and certain other laws (prints 65 and 165). I would very much like to ask Mr Leszek Galemba to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u216	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the draft law amending the Act on the Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and certain other laws, print Nos 65 and 165. The project concerns the introduction of a change by entrusting the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles with tasks relating to the supervision of the commercial quality of agri-food products at all stages of marketing, production, processing and distribution. During the work of the Agriculture Committee yesterday, 21 January, the whole project was examined and six amendments were tabled to the draft. They were examined in substance and the committee unanimously accepted all amendments to this proposal. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development therefore adopted the amendments in full. The draft law was also adopted unanimously. On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I request that this law be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u217	Thank you very much for fitting in so well in time, Mr President. Two minutes. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mr Leszek Galemba from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I have the honour to present on the draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products a position which concerns the introduction of a change consisting in entrusting the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles with tasks relating to the supervision of commercial quality of agri-food products at all stages of trade. In view of the fact that the competence to supervise the commercial quality of agri-food products is part of the commercial quality inspection, of which the retail supervision carried out by the Trade Inspection is excluded, it is appropriate to amend the task of entrusting in full the quality control tasks of agri-food products to one specialised official food control body. Therefore, it is justified that the official food control body supervising the quality of production and retailing is subject to the Minister responsible for agricultural markets. In turn, the correct use of materials and articles in contact with food may affect the commercial quality of the products and materials of such agri-food products, and the Trade Inspection has therefore verified compliance by traders with the requirements for materials and articles intended to come into contact with food to the extent indicated in Article. 1 point 2. Checks on the regularity of placing on the market and labelling of materials and articles intended to come into contact with food will be carried out by the IJHARS only in the framework of commercial quality supervision and will not cover health aspects under the supervision of the State Sanitary Inspection. The proposed focus in a single inspection of responsibility for the control of the commercial quality of agri-food products will allow for a faster response and clarification of doubts related to the compliance of food manufacturers and placing food on the market with commercial quality requirements. The action of one inspection will shorten the time needed to complete the review procedure and eliminate the possible possible other interpretation of the legislation in connection with the control carried out by one or other control service. This will allow for faster withdrawal from the market of products which do not meet the requirements of the legislation, thereby contributing to a better functioning of businesses and uniform evaluation criteria. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, I request the adoption of this law and the adoption of six amendments tabled during the committee's work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u219	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Lenz of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition has the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! Referring to your request that we do not act too long, if that is not necessary, I would like to say that the position of the Civic Coalition Club on the bill has not changed since the last debate two weeks ago when I presented the club's extensive position on this matter. What I'm trying to say is that this is a good solution. In the current model, which is practiced in Poland, the supervision of the entire road from production to retail sales requires the involvement of two institutions, which are currently located in structures of government administration. The Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection is under the responsibility of the Minister of Agriculture and the Trade Inspection is under the responsibility of the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, which, of course, affects them to the full economic performance of these institutions, but also makes them insufficiently defend the interests of consumers. In the European Union, as many as 23 countries have solutions that make one institution control the way from production to sales. Like I said, two weeks ago, I talked about it quite extensively. We confirm our support for this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u221	Thank you, sir. You set a wonderful example. Specially for you, sir. Voilà. We will see if you will benefit from this example by Mr Marek Rutka from the parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u222	Mr. Marshal! Good-for-nothing Vladimir! I'm afraid I don't think so. I have the honour on behalf of the Left to present my position on the draft law amending the Act on Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Products and certain other laws. Combining the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles with the Trade Inspection is certainly the right idea and a step in the right direction. Unfortunately, however, this step is not sufficient because it does not complete food control issues. In order to be able to say that, in terms of both quality and efficiency of the control apparatus, the bill represents a coherent vision, the inclusion of the State Sanitary Inspection is lacking. It is worth referring here to the results of the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 3 January 2019. Let me remind you that this is before the so-called. the crystal era in this institution. This report related to the supervision of the use of food additives. The conclusions of this report were addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. This report calls for a single, specialised food safety service competent in assessing each quality component of the product intended for consumption, including both health and commercial quality. The project assumes the acquisition from the Office of Competition and Consumer Protection of 16 laboratories together with 95 employees, but on a national scale compared to the potential of the State Sanitary Inspection with 16 voivodeships, 318 in powiats and 10 border offices and 17 thousand. workers, this newly created structure could only fully supervise food safety. Currently, the health department and WIJHARS work in an 8-hour system from Monday to Friday. The inspection doesn't work on holidays and holidays. Sometimes Ww. institutions do not work on weekdays either. That was the case, for example. May 2nd. R., when the workers went to the long Maya. Without the approval of this institution - this is very important - it is not possible to make customs clearance of the grocery. Meanwhile, on the land border, health and WIJHARS operate in a 24-hour system. So it's okay. Currently - I speak on the example of the Tricity - there are no specialized customs warehouses, where it is possible to control goods requiring maintenance under appropriate conditions. cooling chain. One day overstaying container in port this is the cost approx. 150 euros, and it must be remembered that sometimes the control lasts 4 days. These costs are, of course, borne by the entrepreneur. So that at the first moment we should consider combining health care and WIJHARS under the wings of health care. Grotesque are tests of samples taken by WIJHARS. These are workers who do not have the appropriate facilities for carrying out microbiological tests. Let me give you an example of whether I will use the quote from the strawberry control protocol that comes to the port of Gdynia. Let me quote this report: Strawberry has a distinctive scent of strawberry, its shape is characteristic of strawberry. This is all the research that the inspection carried out. There are no studies on the presence of heavy metals in these strawberries that look like strawberries. The funding of these institutions should also be increased as their budget has been unchanged for almost 7 years. Every year, there are times when the labs are shut down because the resources are out. Last year, these measures ended in August. Entrepreneurs are charged with these costs of testing and transport of laboratory samples. It happens that the cost of transport exceeds the cost of the test itself. From the very beginning, the Left Club has set itself the goal of being a constructive opposition, open to good solutions, no matter who is their author. Despite the many good solutions contained in this project, which, of course, we appreciate, there are also significant shortcomings. Nevertheless, with good will, the Left Club will support the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Koalicja Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 club, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law on the amendment of the Act on the Commercial Quality of Grocery Products and on certain other laws, or, in fact, the position of the Agriculture Commission concerning this Act. There is no doubt that the bill was expected, is needed and is a response to the needs of customers, so that Polish customers, going to shops, are sure that they are buying this product, which is described on the packaging. It's a good direction. It is also important that we pay attention not only to the administrative combination of these inspections but also to their adequate funding. This is the problem of all inspections without money. Even the most well-packed bill, even the most well-packed inspection won't work. This is something that worries us, because the budget of the Trade Inspection was in the UOKiK and now there is a concern that two inspections have been combined within the budget of the Minister of Agriculture and this money is not much more than before, and the tasks are coming up more. I would also like to remind you of the promise of the Law and Justice of 2007 and 2015 that the Food Safety Inspection Act will be prepared. Such a law was prepared already in 2017. Unfortunately, it has not been accepted and we are now proceeding over a piece of this bill. I would also like to remind you that as Kukiz15 in the last term we have prepared such a bill combining all five inspections. Unfortunately, it was not procedated. It's to be used. I would very much ask you to use this project as well. I would like to thank the Minister for yesterday's committee meeting, a rather long, substantive meeting. At the same time, there was a declaration that the Veterinary Inspection would be strengthened, reorganized, that there would be more money for this inspection. I'm very happy for you. I would like to ask on this occasion when we could expect this new bill. Bottom line, the bill is good, we need it. The Polish Coalition Club supports this bill, waiting for financial reinforcement of this inspection, as well as the Veterinary and Seed Inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u225	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michael Urbaniak from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u226	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Here we are talking about an amendment to the act on the commercial quality of agri-food products and some other laws. Well, in general, the Confederation welcomes, and at the same time with some surprise looks at the dynamic development of legislation in the implementation of the so-called government. It's a good change. It's really an ant, a Stachanian job, where there's a number of laws. You can really see that someone put a lot of work into it. But more seriously, we are glad that the government also sees the possibilities of certain improvements or possible simplifications. Well, today many very substantive words have been said here, and I will not hide, about the law itself, about the institutions that are to work here. On the other hand, I do not know whether you have also paid attention to the citizen himself. The entrepreneur is also a citizen. Here we can talk about a wide range of entrepreneurs or manufacturers at all. So we are pleased that someone has stated that it is worth to have these entrepreneurs or manufacturers controlled by only one institution, not by a number of institutions such as the UOKiK or the Trade Inspection. Everything will be focused in the Chief Commercial Quality Inspector of Agricultural and Food Articles. However, we are concerned that entrepreneurs or manufacturers would be punished here. In general, we understand that with certain shortcomings or failure to comply with the provisions of the penalty, they should, possibly, be. So we are also calling for one really small amendment. One article talks about an entrepreneur who has not yet had income in the previous accounting year. This trader would be punished with a minimum of PLN 1000 in case of deficiencies. As a Confederation, we want to reduce this amount to PLN 100 and simplify the lives of producers. Thank you very much. And, of course, I'm proposing an amendment to your marshal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u227	Thank you very much, sir. Four people volunteered to ask questions. Please, I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. Mr Romuald Aichler, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about this control body that's supposed to properly control the production of food from field to table. I have some concerns. I'd ask the Minister to dismantle them, perhaps completely. How will this body control imported meat directly from abroad to hyper- and supermarkets, not produced in Poland, but by foreign operators? In the case of half-carcases imported to the hypermarkets of this check, there is no box to the table, it is only intermediate possibly, as used to control the health care system. I fear that such research, checks are gone, and I fear therefore (The Bell) - I am finishing, Mr Marshal - that in the past we have imported just this way with dioxin meat and only when Poles ate several hundred thousand tons, they were detected. That was five or six years ago. So I would like you to refer to whether this inspection will actually protect Poles from dioxins?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u229	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u230	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Going to the store, buying goods, we always assume that it is of the right quality and that it is harmless to us, that is, it is healthy, but also when we read various publications, analyses, we find that it is not always so, that in these goods there are harmful substances. Recently a lot has been said about palm oil, and it is symbolic to buy such meat, which the proverbial cat will not eat. Do we really know what we eat, Minister, and when we buy, can we feel safe? Is what we eat safe or gives us energy to live or harms our health? We hear: it is harmful, it is harmful, it is harmful, and at the same time it is allowed to be marketed. Shouldn't this legislation be directed in this direction, so that it is on a principle: from field to table, as it was said here, that we really know that what we buy is okay for us (the bell) and that the goods that another minister, another scientist, could say are harmful to health are not allowed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u231	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u232	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. Again, I have a question about money, because every inspection is strong enough to be strong and satisfied, and its employees are educated. I would like to ask what average remuneration is provided for in the inspection, taking into account the division into management positions and the positions of inspectors, because it would be good for these people not to have to earn money, to look for work elsewhere so that they are people who want to work in the new inspection and feel good there also financially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u233	Thank you. I cordially invite Mrs Dorota Sunday from the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to correct it because there's been an absolute mistake. I would like to say that this law only applies to inspections of the commercial quality of foodstuffs. We are not talking about food safety, which is something completely different, because four inspections are involved in the process of checking food safety. PiS told us in two of his election programs that he would combine them into one joint inspection of food safety. This project is only about commercial quality, and we're talking about the fact that it's supposed to be a field-to-table inspection that checks commercial quality, food security, Bacteriological safety, etc. It would only make sense if you did what you promised, so you combined part of the health inspection, the Veterinary Inspection, the Plant Protection and Seed Inspection and the IJHARS. Then it would be one inspection that checks everything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the moment, however, it is still so, gentlemen, that in detail, namely trade, the sanitary inspection checks the quality of the chop, and in production the quality checks the Veterinary Inspection. So please don't confuse the concepts.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u235	Thank you very much. I invite you to answer the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Ryszard Kamiński. And above all, I invite you, Marshal Gosievska, whom I am pleased to present with you, and with you in a polite, kind and sympathetic way, I say goodbye. Thank you for your cooperation. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u236	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for all the comments submitted and for your position. I particularly thank Mrs Niedziela for, I think, very tidying attention to what is the subject of the law we are proceeding on. Indeed, like you. you suggested, this is the first step towards the transfer of supervision by one institution. This part of the Trade Inspection, which oversees turnover, will now be combined with the Trade Quality Inspection of Agricultural and Food Articles. And this is, as I say, the first step towards such supervision being carried out from field to table. Let us remember that so far someone else has been supervising manufacturing, processing and wholesale, and someone else had supervision of store shelves, which was quite dangerous. Therefore, in reply to Mr Ajchler, I would like to say that this is a step in this direction in order to eliminate the risks associated with the fact that other institutions have checked the market on the side of the shelves and someone else has checked at the border. Now it's going to be in one institution and that's why we can feel safer. Of course, as Mr Sachajko pointed out, money is always important and money in this case follows this part of the Trade Inspection which will be included in the quality inspection of agri-food products. They were provided as far as possible, as provided for the Commercial Inspection. All that money goes there. There seems to be a chance to improve, because the efficiency of this new structure, better use of laboratories will give us an opportunity to improve efficiency even more. Oh, yeah, that's the point. I was talking about health security earlier. Well, there can't be unhealthy food. Food may not be placed on the market which is likely to be harmful. Therefore, no food authorised may harm this health. As Mrs Niedziela said, this is a fundamental condition. Supervision of this new structure over the entire turnover will certainly provide us with this. Above all, Mrs. Marshal, I would like to stress that this is the first step towards this comprehensive surveillance, from field to table. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u237	Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like to welcome all of you after I have taken over the proceedings. We'll discuss it by tonight under my guidance. I invite the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Leszek Galemba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u238	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank you very much, first of all, for the substantive procedure regarding this law, as well as for the comments, because we have a concern for safe food. This food produced in Poland is safe at any stage at the moment. No one should be worried. This law brings first of all relief to businesses, but also satisfaction to consumers, because this first stage of the merger of inspections, as the Minister said here, is happening today in front of our eyes. In the previous term, we also connected two institutions, the Agricultural Market Agency and the Agricultural Property Agency. We said we were gonna connect institutions, and we're gonna merge, and that's what's happening today. Of course, there will certainly be the next step of the Government of Law and Justice in order to have full supervision of food, from field to shop shelf. I would like to thank all the clubs for their substantive work and ask the High House to pass this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u239	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws (prints No 155 and 166). I ask Mr Kazimierz Starowski to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development, with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 On 9 January 2020, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for first reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development considered the draft law at its meeting on 21 January 2020. Three amendments were tabled at first reading, which the committee accepted. The aim of the legislative action is to implement actions under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020: Animal welfare. Such support consists in compensating the farmer for the costs of keeping animals subject to higher standards, which go beyond the relevant mandatory standards resulting from generally applicable legislation. This action will encourage the application of an economically non-optimal production system, since a farmer applying better standards of animal welfare will receive a payment equalising his income for a farmer applying basic standards. Designed solutions for the implementation of the action: Animal welfare will help to stabilise the conditions of agricultural activity and thus positively affect the competitiveness of Polish farms and the financial situation of Polish agricultural families. By introducing practices to improve animal welfare, animals will be given the opportunity to meet behavioural needs and thus to improve health and well-being, which responds to growing social expectations in terms of animal welfare conditions. The proposed rules introduce solutions for farmers, so that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 21 January 2020, brings forward: The High Sejm will approve the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u241	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The Declaration of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Richard Bartosik. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u242	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club regarding the amendment of the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and certain other laws, prints No 155 and 165. High Seym! This project, which is expected by farmers, has been announced before. It is intended to increase farmers' incomes and improve the keeping of livestock. The aim of these changes is to implement actions under the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014 to 2020 called Animal Welfare. By launching this action, farmers will, of course, receive financial support for pursuing practices related to animal welfare. This will provide better conditions for keeping animals. I would like to mention that this action has not yet been implemented in Poland. Financial support will be provided for the implementation of animal welfare obligations that go beyond the relevant mandatory standards resulting from universal law. Support is intended to compensate farmers for the costs incurred as a result of animal welfare practices. High Seym! The proposal for implementing the action was accepted by the Monitoring Committee of the RDPs and the Council of Ministers. The draft amendment to the RDPs was also approved by the European Commission. The project presented includes amendments to the Act on RDPs and the Act on the National Recording System. Three amendments were tabled to the draft law at the committee meeting concerning the title of the law, the statements which farmers would make instead of the application for payment and the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the law. The project will support agricultural holdings. There will be a surcharge of 100 PLN for pigs and 500 PLN for cattle. The Act is the fulfilment of the announcements, the promise of the Law and Justice, which had previously been made to farmers, and will, of course, enable them to increase their income. It also gives small farms a chance to develop their production. On the other hand, it is an opportunity for healthier food and better keeping animals in farming conditions. The Law and Justice Club calls for this law to be adopted together with the amendments which were tabled at first reading. The law, which was long awaited by farmers, announced by the Law and Justice, is now being implemented. On behalf of my club, please pass this bill. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u243	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u244	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In April Ub. At the summit of the campaign to the European Parliament, the Polish village electrified the news that if Law and Justice win elections, farmers will get 500 PLN per cow and 100 PLN per pig. The cow+ and pig+ programmes have been personally announced by the President of Law and Justice, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. Today is the day of truth. There's a bill in front of us. And what does it turn out to be? Today, instead of the new programme, the Government of Law and Justice proposes to extend the Rural Development Programme to 2014 and 2020 to include further animal welfare measures. That's it. That's it. Instead of billions of zloty, the government offers farmers EUR 50 million for 2 years. By taking the exchange rate of PLN 4,3 for 1 euro it will be PLN 215 million for 2 years. And these are not any additional measures, but measures shifted from another action under the same programme. The government will do as always: take one, pass it on to the other. This will make it possible to say: we keep our promises. And we say, "I'm checking." In the explanatory memorandum to the Act we read that 65 thousand can benefit from the action. farms, but first farmers will have to spend 1 000. PLN for the preparation of the application by the designated agricultural adviser. These costs will reduce the envelope for farmers' payments by PLN 65 million in total. In this situation only PLN 150 million will be left for farmers for 2 years. According to government data in Poland, we have 6 million bovine animals and 11 million pigs, including 7 million of which come from Belgium, Germany or Denmark. The bill is simple. If we split this money equally, farmers would receive PLN 4.41 per year for each piece of a bred animal, including half of the funds, which is important, High Izbo, or about PLN 75 million, would go to those who ultimately earn billions of zloty in breeding Belgian, German and Danish piglets, and these are not the family farms that you claim to support. But we're about to start discussing how money is going to be when animal welfare is improved, so there's going to be bigger positions in cow stalls, a larger area in pig pigs' pigs' pigs' pigs' pigs' pigs' pigs' houses, green pastures, etc. High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! During yesterday's committee meeting, the representatives of the Ministry were unable to estimate the costs of adapting the average size of the cowshed to 50 cows and the average size of the pig farm to 300 and 500 pig pieces so that the farmer could benefit from this scheme. And the truth is, given the need to spend on adapting the barn, the pigsty, including 1,000. PLN from the project for the advisor, costs in the future may exceed the value of the aid received. There is no doubt that ultimately farmers will have to work hard to benefit from the cow+, pig+ programmes. Finally, this large programme proved to be an ordinary action under the Rural Development Programme, in addition to poorly prepared and very poorly funded. This bill shows what propaganda we're dealing with every day. Ministers appear in the Polish village as donors, implementing further actions for EU money. Finally, for years, subsidies have been applied to cows and cattle for feed, sheep and goats. And they will be. They were introduced by the government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. It's worth remembering. We don't make any noise about it. And you know why? Because that money belongs to the farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u245	Thank you, sir. The position of the parliamentary club of the Left will be presented by Mr Romuald Ajchler. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u246	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Well, I persuaded the club of the Left to support the bill because it carries 50 million euros for the Polish countryside. And that's important for farmers. Farmers have already prepared themselves for such a situation that they will not receive the money promised before the Europarlament elections. They know that very well. And today, whoever is connected with the Polish village knows that farmers say: well, maybe something will come to us. And indeed, what Mr Plocke said, something will come to them, because if we are ok. 12 million pigs, as some say, and we multiply it by 100 zlotys, that's probably 1,200 million zlotys, if I count correctly. If we multiply by 500 PLN the number of bovine animals in Poland, it will also be a serious amount. It would be about PLN 3 billion. But we get... Farmers are to receive EUR 50 million, which represents more than PLN 200 million, but within two years, given the last perspective. And now the question is, what's next, Minister? What about the new perspective? Is this just an incentive for farmers in the countryside to maybe reach out again and vote for the PiS? I'm not commenting on this, I'm just telling you that farmers have their own brains. High Izbo! This is one part of this bill. But the second part shows there's nothing for anything. There is a need to put in a huge amount of money to adapt Polish agriculture and those who have recently put pigsty and sows into use so that they are able to meet these conditions. Ba, the farmer must also express his desire to make use of these funds. This is a simple thing, it's about marking in the application for aid that the farmer wants to benefit from it, because it will improve the welfare of animals by the required 20%. But it's either gonna do it and it's gonna reduce production... 'Cause of which 20% ? Well, it's not gonna happen right away. But in addition, it is necessary to increase the posts in newly devoted stallions to the required size, by 20%, and in pigsty dungeons to the appropriate size, counting in square meters per piece. There, if I remember correctly, for one dungeon should be 4.2 m. But the most important problem that farmers are facing is how much it will cost to adapt or draw up a plan to improve the living conditions of animals, then control, in the meantime keeping records, how many hours the cow will be in the pasture. Who's gonna confirm that? Whether it's the chief or something, I don't know... In any case, the farmer must prove that he has improved the welfare of the bovine animals and that the cow has been in the pasture for an adequate number of hours. It is good that pigs were thought and withdrawn from the requirement to put pigs into pastures because African swine fever was known to exist. That would threaten the spread of this disease, and there would be no mention of bioinsurance. At the meeting of the Parliament committee, I also asked the Minister and continue to ask you, Minister, to help farmers draw up a plan. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation of Agriculture could participate in this and finance the assistance of an advisor to arrive at the farmer's farm. The point is that the farmer doesn't have to spend his money, because it's not yet known if he's going to receive this payment. To sum up your statement, Minister, because this 50 million will go to the Polish village... Perhaps it will, although we must also remember that it will not be the entire 200 million, because some will consume (the bell)... I'm almost done, Marshal. ...the administrators, i.e. those who will carry out training etc., the entire bureaucracy will also consume tens of millions. That's it, Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u247	Thank you very much, sir. I position of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Please, Mr Mirosław Maliszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This law on RDPs, about changing the system of the Rural Development Programme, is not very expected by Polish farmers. That's the slogan you're using, arguing your not-so-good ideas. Why is it not so good for Polish farmers? Well, it is really the realization of those words that fell during the election campaign, about the fact that everyone who will keep cows and have pigs will get the program +500 PLN and +100 PLN, 500+ and 100+. But the truth is not in this, because not everyone - only those who will grow these animals in an extensive system. This is the assumption of the animal welfare programme. What do you mean, an extensive system? It means: a system quite different from the one to which the civilized world is headed - competitive, modern, growing agriculture. You support not intensive agriculture, which will increase exports, but you support extensive agriculture, which is already an archive on a European scale today. Small agriculture will not help a small farmer, because a small farmer today is unable to implement the bioinsurance rules in the case of ASF control. And there's nothing in this program about support for bioinsurance, anti-ASF. This program is an extensive program. Besides, that's not the only reason he's angry. He's also upset because he's taking somebody's money. Because you don't give special budget resources from the national budget for this cow+ and pig+ programme, you just manipulate the European Union's funds. And I think that the main reason is not to implement your electoral programme, although maybe in part yes, but above all to accelerate the spending of the European Union, because in this respect Poland is at the gray end. Until recently, it was only 29% of the contracted resources under the RDPs from this financial perspective. So, because of the fear that these measures will disappear, that these measures will not be given back to the European Union, you are presenting such a programme. Now, who are you taking? If you're not giving money from the national budget, you're taking someone from the RDP. Well, that's what you're taking from intensive farmers, because you're taking from agricultural producer groups, and that's what the committee said. Since you're taking agricultural producer groups, you're taking intensive farmers who want to invest or invest to strengthen their competitive position on the market. Because today, how can a farmer's position on the market be strengthened? Not with words, not with this expectation by Polish farmers. This can only be achieved if they are forced to do so or if they are encouraged to do so together so that they can stand up to large consumers on the market. And since you are taking these measures, first of all, you have done nothing to strengthen Polish farmers in the market. You didn't do anything, all the indicators say the opposite: the number of contracts concluded between the farmer and the recipient, such genuine contracts, which respect the principle of equal partnership, are decreasing, the number of agricultural products marketed through producer groups is decreasing. All this means that these great recipients of the farmer's products are getting stronger and not weakening. As evidence, another indicator. Not so long ago, because last year, you presented here a draft law on agricultural cooperatives, which was supposed to start their formation, organizing farmers in this really good form, which is a cooperative form. I would like one of the ministers here to tell us how many cooperatives have been founded on this bill. I have the knowledge that none. If none of them were created, then this program that you are presenting right now is as reliable as Radio Erevan, who said that in Moscow, in Red Square, they are giving out Moscow. It was all true, except not in Moscow, but in Leningrad, they didn't give away, and they stole, and they didn't mosquitoes, just bikes. And your program is exactly the same. This is not a programme expected by farmers, [[Applause]] Because you're taking away these intense farmers, and you want to give those who can't handle the market, and this program isn't gonna help them. If you'd supported bioinsurance with this program, we'd have supported this project with two hands. We're gonna back him up anyway. It is only for this reason that we will support it, so that these difficultly negotiated by Minister Kalemba and by Minister Sawicki European funds go to the budget of Polish farmers. If we had not supported this project and if you had not presented it, I am convinced that we would not have used the funds from the European Union for Polish agriculture. One more thing that has also appeared here, namely, this - clearly even in the explanatory memorandum - is that in order for this programme to work, there is a need to train agricultural advisory and surveying staff. And again, you're saying it supports counseling. If this were to support advice, it would be made out of national budget resources. And you're just out of EU money, not spending more money on advice... You are re-introducing the plundering of EU funds so that the workers you should support from your own budget can be financed from the European Union budget. I said we'd support this project. We will support for these reasons (the bell) so that, after all, these few million zlotys will reach the Polish village, and not be given to Brussels by your failure. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u249	Thank you, sir. Circle of the Polish Confederation divided the time into two speeches. Mr Konrad Berkowicz will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u250	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, Mr Fellowships, Messengers, Ignore! [[Game in the O.R.]] My previous speakers from both the Civic Coalition and PSL spoke about EU money. I'm protesting. There's no such thing as EU money. The European Union does not have a money-making machine that can be distributed later, only the European Union has the money that hard-working citizens, including hard-working Poles, have to work and contribute to the European Union. But I'd like to say something more important. Well, French economist Frederick Bastiat, French economist, economic pamphletist, once said a thing, it would seem, of course, that there are things in this world that you can see and things that you can't see. And what do you see in Poland? In Poland you can see thousands of large, white plates, which tell you what has been created thanks to the European Union. What can't you see? There are no thousands of red plates that should stand anywhere where something has not been created by the EU's bureaucracy and taxes, which we are feeding to the EU budget. And this bill is an example of that. First, you impose on Polish farmer, breeders of idiotic regulations, thickets of idiotic, harmful, unnecessary rules that hinder the Polish farmer's work, which make the labour costs of the Polish breeder bigger, and then you come, appear on a white horse and benevolently lean over the miserable fate of the farmer and shower it with gold. That's how you guys make kind people out of each other. By agreeing to a system in which Poland first pays huge amounts of money to the Union, and then the Polish farmer must seek to recover this money in the framework of EU projects, applications for subsidies, applications for EU finance - you make Polish farmers beggars. Meanwhile, Polish farmers are not beggars, and you are not benefactors, because the only money you have is because you took from a Polish farmer in taxes. From this whole system comes an even greater problem and greater danger. Poland, giving part of the European Union's budget to contributions, gave up sovereignty in this part, allowing the Union to decide how this money will be spent. And a few days ago we had this shooting example - I am addressing the Government of Law and Justice, which complains, rightly, that the European Union is interfering in how the Polish government wants to reform the judiciary, and a few days ago the European Union announced that if the reform of the Polish judiciary is not stopped, the Union will stop paying us enough money. But you, the Law and Justice, have allowed the Union to blackmail money by signing the Treaty of Lisbon. You're the ones who made that whip on each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u251	Thank you, sir. But in the future, it is particularly such an introduction that you could spare yourself in the High House, really. Then maybe you, I don't know, at a club meeting or your circle... Please, Mr Michal Urbaniak will speak in the second part of the time of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u252	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking here about EUR 50 million, which will be spent within two years. We are talking about the fact that Polish citizens' contributions will be transferred again simply to farmers. Today, in fact, if we look at this Animal Welfare Act, we can make it clear that it is simply a law that is a foundation for the Government of Law and Justice against the environments that deal with environmentalism, those eco-terrorists or bambinists who talk about the widespread welfare of animals, and this welfare is already provided by every farmer to his pigs, cows or animals on farms today. Let's agree that if someone doesn't care about their animals, they won't be a good farmer. In this situation farmers are presented - especially left-wing environments - as almost criminals. We don't agree to that. We just think that this bill is an ordinary pad, too. Why do we think that? Look at the fact that the government is building bureaucratic mechanisms here in the event of any grant being paid. ARiMR will control everything, ARiMR will provide advisors - each payment will involve a number of costs incurred faster. If that's what pig plus or cow plus is supposed to look like, then we're definitely not voting for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u253	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I am closing the list of Members who have been enrolled in the question. I'm setting time: 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Rzepa, PSL - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u254	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! A lot of wise words came out of that podium. I think these numbers should make you think very strongly. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Maliszewski spoke about groups of agricultural producers. Do we really want to develop commodity, competitive farms in Poland? It would seem that, speaking of what you are saying, not necessarily. I'd like to ask you, Minister, where is the promise of a national food holding company? What have you done? Where are the double payments that Polish farmers are waiting for? But really, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we should look at the fact that we should support commodity farming, agriculture that will be competitive in Europe. On the other hand, I think what you've done... A few months we will not be able to find out how many people have benefited from this because the implementation of this programme will probably cost more than what farmers will gain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u256	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I want to apologize for this... Confederation Members, these young people are a bit of our educational failure, my generation. But to the point. Minister! I want to ask because we're trying to undo the whole cow plus and pig plus thing. Let me remind you again: the cow is plus 500 zloty, the pig - plus 100 zloty. 215 million for 6 million cattle and 11 million pigs. PLN 215 million reduced by 65 million of service. This service will be of this 215 million, which will be 150 million for 2 years for animal welfare. If you don't know what welfare means, it's about improving the quality of life of animals, which will result in less income for farmers. And that should be done. On the other hand, my question is: Does President Jarosław Kaczyński know that he has signed the motto "Cow+ and Pig+," thinking about animal welfare? [[♪ The bell ♪]] But we ask questions to the government and applicants, not to Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński. Does he know that there is only 150 million for the entire programme for all pigs and all cows in Poland. 7 million is an overlay. Will the Danes get that money, too?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u258	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! The debate raised the issue of non-use of EU funds under the Rural Development Programme. Is that true? What stage are we at? Is there a risk that these funds will not be used for programmes previously adopted by the Polish Sejm? Secondly, I have a question about the amounts that are foreseen for animal welfare programmes. What program will be used or removed from the current programme? Thirdly, it is important that, with regard to the measures taken by breeders, there is, however, an opportunity to continue these programmes in the next financial perspective. The question is: Does the Polish government predict that in our next financial perspective it will be possible to continue these programmes of cow+ and pig+? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u260	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Animal welfare regulations should have been adopted in Poland a few years ago. We have talked about this in the Left programs many times. The welfare of animals is the satisfaction of the basic needs of animals concerning, among others. access to water, nutrition, hygiene, the premises in which the animals are kept. If we do not remember this, we will not remember that we use these animals as well. By launching such measures, farmers will be able to receive financial support for animal welfare practices. I would like to ask: What exactly will be the financing of this programme by voivodship, with particular emphasis on the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u261	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u262	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Government! I would like to ask why your project is not as clear and transparent as it was when you presented it during the election campaign this spring. Please explain clearly and clearly to Polish farmers why not everyone who raises cows and pigs will be able to benefit from the proposed aid. Why didn't you say in the election campaign that the cost of using the program would be so great? And I'm not just talking about an expert fee that could be handled by the ODR with government support, but it's more about adapting the premises so that there's no need to reduce the stock size. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u263	Thank you very much, sir. And the last question will be asked by Mr Romuald Ajchler, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u264	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will continue with Mr Tomaszewski's statement. Well, Mr Tomaszewski - in my club speech I also talked about it - asked about the continuation of this programme in the new financial perspective. Farmers in this perspective - let us no longer argue whether it will be 50 million or 100 million - will adapt their farms and improve animal life. And now can they hope in a new perspective actually for what the President promised, 100 PLN+, 500 PLN+ in the case of a cow, or will there be the same criteria as at present? Because it would be a misunderstanding to adapt the farm today if, in the new perspective, this programme does not continue. I wanted to make sure what means it would be, whether you have a guarantee that this programme (the bell) will have funds. And will it be extra measures, or will it be at the expense of some other programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u265	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Minister Ryszard Kaminski, will answer the questions of the honourable states on behalf of the government. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u266	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for all your questions. Indeed, when introducing a new complementary action for the Rural Development Programme, which is, I think, quite natural, let us ask ourselves how this will be implemented. However, to Mr Rzepa's question concerning the national food holding company, if possible, we will prepare a written answer, because it is as if next to our debate today. We promise that she will be prepared in the near future. To Mrs Niedziela's repeated question about how to operate the programme, let us answer this: training, because it has been here many times, has been provided by the Ministry of Agriculture for 2 weeks, precisely the centre of agricultural advice is already conducting training and agricultural advisers are already being prepared. The money allocated to this scheme will not be taken from the farmers' grant. Money for training, for preparation of administration services are from a widely understood farm advisory system. Indeed, the use, the transfer of funds took place from the production group action, because this is a shift under the Rural Development Programme. As a person who worked for 10 years in the 1990s for producer groups and agricultural cooperatives, I must say that this is our general failure in Poland, that every Danish, Dutch or German farmer belongs to several cooperatives, and only one in three Polish farmers, for several percent of Polish farmers belong to some producer farmers' organisation. We have to work on it. Different kinds of initiatives are being taken. On the other hand, if this money is to be used up, it has been decided that it will serve better to improve welfare. Indeed, improving well-being means increasing the area by at least 20% in this case. Expectations - it must be made clear that we are talking about farmers' expectations, we are talking about expectations about the quality of agricultural production, but we are also not forgetting the growing expectations of consumers - the awareness that animals should be kept in good conditions in society is growing. Consumers expect to know the conditions under which the animals lived were maintained, how they were fed. And them, among others. meeting their expectations, this action also serves. I answer Mr Gawkowski's question. There is no regionalisation, but it is assumed that all those who apply to this programme will be able to make nominal use of it. And here is also a repeated question about whether we will finance the western, foreign overlaying. Although there are no restrictions, I cannot imagine that entities that have invested in industrial education in Poland, in which there is a high density of animals in a very small space, can now suddenly change their production system so that they can benefit from these relatively small resources, because, unfortunately, the profits of these entities in Poland are very large, with a loss to small farmers. And here, ladies and gentlemen, is a key issue because many times you, ladies and gentlemen, have highlighted the question of where we will get money for investments in these farms to adapt these farms. The basic issue today is that farmers are massively abandoning farming due to the risk of disease, due to the competition of multinational companies that created industrial breeding in Poland, and the fact that individual profitability is decreasing. In almost every village there are unused buildings in almost every farm. This is not enough, the farmers decide every day to give up their farms, and the farmers decide to give up their farms. And for them, as such a point for reflection, we present these regulations. In this regard, farmers who are wondering whether it still makes sense to keep the cattle or dairy or meat cattle, we say: if you have the buildings you have, the unused ones, think, calculate, evaluate these buildings, often empty today, whether they could not be restored or continued to produce, because in these buildings with this additional payment, this calculation of production will be slightly different. I'm not saying we're going to increase by 100%. The cost-effectiveness of production, but certainly, as many of you have stressed, will increase this profitability relatively, especially for small farms. And that 60,000. The farms that we expect to cover are not all farms, they are not all animals, but they are, in effect, dedicated to those smaller farms that do not compete with supranational companies. I can assure you that, with any overlay farm that has been invested in large buildings, it will not be profitable to use this programme. This is piloting. Mr Ajchler drew attention to this, asked whether we were thinking about the new programming period. Of course, we have concluded internal discussions about the new programming period, the CAP plan. On Monday, I will be attending the European Union's Council of Agriculture Ministers and there we will discuss the shape of agricultural funds after 2021. Therefore, we are entering a phase of detailed discussions already in Poland about what these funds will be earmarked for. If it turns out this year, 2020, and in 2021 that there is an interest that farmers respond to, that it serves our farms that have not been able to handle, and in addition, what has been sought, and rightly, and what Mr Gawkowski said, it will also serve the interests, expectations of those who care about animal rights, then certainly such actions will be included in the new CAP plan, which is the new plan for the common agricultural policy. And that's it, Marshal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u267	Thank you very much, Minister. The Committee rapporteur, Mr Kazimierz Starzdowski, also presented the answer to the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u268	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to thank all the clubs for their substantive discussion. We always have a long discussion at the meetings of the Agriculture Committee, but we always reach consensus and work out a common position. I would also like to thank the Minister for the drafting of this law, because I think it is a very important and expected law by farmers. This law is, of course, addressed to a certain group, those who will maintain animals under supernormative conditions. Today we are discussing that 50 million euro is not enough. Let's wait and see how many farmers make proposals, how many proposals will be made, how much funding will be needed. As the Minister said, this programme will also be included in the next financial perspective. So that we should be glad that another group of farmers will be able to benefit from these compensations, these measures. This is good for Polish agriculture and the Polish countryside. So that I thank you all for the substantive discussion and ask you to vote on this law in the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u269	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 8 on the agenda: First reading of the citizens' draft Pension Law without tax and amending certain other laws (Print No 38). Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee, please take the floor. You are a citizen, sir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u270	That's how the people chose, Marshal. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear representatives of the committee, representatives of the civil committee, I welcome you very warmly to the gallery. On behalf of the Civil Committee, I have once again the honour of presenting the citizens' project Mon. Retirement tax-free. It was probably not possible due to the short time, short time, because the first reading of this project in the last term took place on 7 November 2018, then there were elections and probably for this reason this project was not renegotiated. Today I am presenting it again and thank you to all those who have taken part in this initiative. As we promised earlier in the Polish People's Party - when our project was rejected, our club project, the citizens' initiative, because this is what retired people and pensioners have asked us to do - to carry out this project, today again I present it. It is clear, clear and expected by pensioners and pensioners. He's been supported by over 140,000. Retirement and pensioners, but not only because young people signed the project as well. Today, the situation is so much more serious with regard to this project, in relation to what I presented at the previous first reading, that the situation of pensioners and pensioners has deteriorated significantly in relation to what was a year and a half ago, and therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let me say a few words on this subject. Where did this project come from? The rulers forgot about pensioners and pensioners. When all social groups are seen, unfortunately, it must be said that pensioners and pensioners have been forgotten. I don't know where it comes from. If we look at pensions, pensions, they are at a very low level. Today, pensioners and pensioners face the problem of survival next month. Where does this come from? What's with the data? Well, that's easy. The debt of pensioners and pensioners is increasing in a very fast manner. The pensioners, of course, are calmed that there will be additional benefits, additional 13s, 14s, but at the same time they are taken from their benefits each month. And then we're going to say, "We're going to pay you out for six months, we're going to pay you 13 for the next six months," and we're going to say, "We're going to pay you 13," and we're going to pay you for what you're complaining about, and why are you asking for more money?" The real value of pension benefits falls from year to year. Where does this come from? Well, valorization doesn't secure real value. Enough of that, valorization comes with an annual or a year-and-a-half delay, and we have an example right now. We already have galloping inflation, because that's what we have to admit, food prices are rising, energy prices are rising, services prices are rising, medicines prices are rising, and that's at a galloping rate, because in some cases it's even 20% in the case of food. This valorization, which will include this increase, will not be until April of the following year. So the question is, what's a pensioner supposed to live for? We propose a simple solution: simplifying the benefit system, simply not charging tax, because pensioners worked their entire lives, fulfilled their obligations, paid their taxes, paid all taxes, didn't even have time for foreign travel, because in many cases there was no such possibility, and today the state underestimates what they did. They built Poland, they rebuilt Poland, but when it comes to paying in their adult life, it is said: you did your job, we will throw you something to wipe out your tears, we will throw you the minimum social, we will give you the minimum pension and save yourselves. Therefore, pensioners and pensioners are disappointed in this situation, they say: enough to deceive us, to deceive our families, because what we are promised is not realized. And today, pensioners face a difficult decision to choose: buying food, paying, covering the costs of all services that cost, all medical benefits, because you have to take into account that the prices of medicines are rising. At the same time, it is increasingly difficult access to health care and a pensioner knowing that he is ill, sometimes very seriously, cannot wait for months, he simply has to pay for medical services in private institutions. There are quite a lot of these problems, so very often a question arises, and this question is asked where to get the money for it. This is money, which I want to say directly, within the range of PLN 15 billion. This project would cost PLN 15 billion. It does not solve - and I would like to point out - all the problems of pensioners and pensioners. This is just a partial form of compensation for this and an honorary display: If you have paid your whole life, then maybe at this moment we will no longer charge you this tax. What we have admitted to you is what is preached every day, that the pensioner gets 1,200 zł, 1300 zł, that this is true. Because for today, that's not true. Because that's not true. The lowest pension received by pensioners, beneficiaries, is reduced by a tax which is compulsory. Where's the money coming from? Today we hear that the economy is developing wonderfully. Our economy is developing wonderfully. Retired people believe that because you have to believe the rulers, you have to believe the president. As it develops, it's money. And it's getting more expensive because it's growing. The budget is balanced, which is good too. The budget is balanced, we have no debt. It's been bad all these years, because the budget was... At the moment, the budget is balanced, which is good. On the other hand, pensioners say this: You do not guard these expenses, because for everything there is, everyone is due. The Prime Minister goes out and says, "It's the right thing to do. That's what it was, that's what it was. And why don't we deserve it? You're the rapporteur. The next thing we know, it's all the stuff we hear about today, especially the bank. We hear about these things every day. I'm talking about the money, where's the money coming from? If we could just secure those outposts, is that extra money? There's extra money. Another thing is entrepreneurs. Today entrepreneurs say that it is getting worse, and they are the only guarantee of securing the revenue of the state budget. So let's take care of the entrepreneurs, let's show that you can grow, not roll up the business, it'll be money. And so we could look for a lot of places in our daily lives, in our budgets, where we could find money. Of course, we are aware that this cannot be achieved in the short term. But let's start with a specific discussion about the situation of pensioners and pensioners, because every day we get more pensioners who live at the minimum social level. All these extra benefits don't secure it, like I said. Let us start a serious discussion on the future of Polish pensioners and pensioners. This applies to everyone, we in this bill are talking about all pensioners, the whole system around the pension. In short, we are talking: the pension law without tax, but this applies to all, including agricultural pensions. Some European countries have long introduced it, Lithuania, Bulgaria, but also Hungary. Very often we show Hungarians as an example, we use their solutions. Let's use these solutions because they've had this system for decades and it's working, and it's working. This is a very cost-effective system because it eliminates tax collection, which is the whole administration, and then extra spending, all the promotion we're doing. We are not opposed and pensioners are not opposed to any additional claims, they are welcome. But this is a system solution that makes sure that from month to month, from year to year the pension will be as high as it was granted, and that's how much the pensioner gets in his pocket. 'Cause when a pensioner goes to the store, he doesn't pay gross, he pays what he's got in his pocket or what he's wired to the bank and what's on his bank card. And that's the difference. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll go back to what happened to me on Sunday. Well, a retired woman walks up to me and says, "Sir, do something, let pensions finally be real, let them allow us to live a decent life." And he gives me an example. Grandpa's Day and Grandma's Day are coming up. I've got seven grandkids and these grandkids are gonna come to me with a card, bring me some little gifts, and I can't afford to buy them some chocolate and thank them for it. I can't afford it, because I have 800 zlotys of pensions, I have to buy drugs for 300 zlotys a month, pay all the fees. I don't have a penny left, I have to do the right thing and tighten my belt to fit in that amount. And he adds: after all, these seven grandchildren will earn my retirement because I, through my family, have given you the potential to work for Poland, for citizens, for my family, and I would like to feel it. Do something about it. That's the problem, and that requires some sort of regulation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, presenting this project on behalf of 140 thousand. The Poles who signed under it, please refer him to the committee and continue to process him. This is a civic project. I would also ask that it be considered as soon as possible, because the situation is more difficult than it was before, when we presented this project, so that we could begin to discuss it (the bell), because life is running out, time is running out, and each of us will be retired, each of us. Today the situation is becoming increasingly difficult, but most of us will live to see that he will be retired, and then this question will be asked by the rulers. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we, as the Polish People's Party, declare that we will not stop and that this project sooner or later - such an initiative - will be carried out in the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u271	Mr President, I would like to remind you that you were a representative of the Legislative Initiative Committee and not of the Polish People's Party Club. But thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u272	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the citizens' draft Pension Law without tax and the amendment of some other laws, print No 38. High Izbo! The bill on which we are proceeding involves exempting pensioners from the obligation to pay income tax on individuals and health insurance contributions. Let me remind you that social contributions, including pension contributions, are deducted from remuneration before deduction of health contributions and advance payments for personal income tax. What does that mean? This means that the remuneration for social security contributions is non-taxed. After many years, these contributions return to the insured person in the form of a pension. Since this income has not been taxed on the payment of contributions, the tax is levied on the payment of the pension. High Izbo! The project, as the Marshal rightly pointed out, is a civil project, but it is companyed by the Polish People's Party and is requested by other opposition groups for this project. The Polish People's Party, which, as far back as we can remember, has participated in the exercise of power, once with the SLD, once with the PO, held responsibility for the pension system, including the situation of pensioners, in its ranks had two ministers of employment. And then you raised your retirement age. Did you ask the Poles then? You threw millions of signatures in the basket. You were patching up the budget hole with the OFE money and the sale of national assets. Now applicants calculate that the entry into force of the Act will reduce the revenue to the state budget by nearly PLN 35 billion. The source of this amount, according to the authors of the project, is to be among others. increase in VAT revenue. That's hypocritical. In your governments 260 billion zlotys have been leaked from VAT. High Izbo! The project introduces e.g. amendments to the PIT Act, the Publicly funded health care law, the Income Act of local government units. In this case, you don't worry about it, and you don't have a problem with the fact that local governments will have less resources than when Law and Justice introduced an income tax reduction law from 18% to 17%. or a tax relief law for young people up to the age of 26. The proposed changes will not significantly improve the situation of the lowest recipients. A progressive tax scale causes the lowest benefits to increase to a much lower extent than the highest benefits. Disgraceful! The changes have a negative impact on both the social security system and the health benefit system, have a negative impact on the system of financing local government units, have a negative impact on the state budget. The Sejm Analysis Office's opinion on the compatibility of the draft law with European Union law, which, after all, is an oracle for you, states that the proposed solution is incompatible with the article. 18 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union concerning the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality. The project was also negatively assessed by the NSZZ National Commission bureau, because, as it is written, discrimination would be to grant tax exemptions only to the pension benefit group regardless of the amount of the benefit. Moreover, the draft law may conflict with the article. 84 Constitution, which states that everyone is obliged to bear public burdens and benefits, including taxes. Law and Justice have proved to be particularly concerned about the weak, pensioners and pensioners. There'd be a lot of things we've put in place in our governments. There you go. From the thirteenth pension through the introduction of a value-for-money, motherly pension to an increase of almost 1/4 of the lowest pension. It's gold meds. Everyone was supposed to be. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you are making unfair offers to pensioners, mamiting them with a pension without taxes, and as soon as, God forbid, you come to power, and after the fruits of your government, we can judge you... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please leave us out of this. ...you're about to raise your retirement age and make them work until they die. The law and justice in responsibility for the entire pension system and, since it is a responsible grouping, proposes to send the above. a project for further work on the committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u273	Thank you very much, Member. Before I ask Mr Michael Szczerba... Mr Rutnicki, you have a little energy today, so I am asking you, in a preventive manner, to... This is a very important matter, Marshal. She's very busy with us all, but let's discuss it the way it's supposed to be in this room. So I invite Mr Michael Szczerba to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition, which is also on behalf of Mr Rutnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u274	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A citizen's pension bill without tax. Ladies and gentlemen, what is this project? Firstly, it is a permanent release from PIT, every month, regardless of the whims of power and their electoral calculations, and not at the expense of other groups, because the majority of people with independence, disability are the elderly. High Izbo! In the Civic Coalition, project initiators have their allies. We want to work on this project in the Parliamentary Committees, develop the best and fairest solutions. 9 million pensioners have already paid their tax for years of work. They've worked their pensions. What they expect from their country is, above all, the conditions for decent ageing in good health. High Izbo! 2020 will be an expensive year. It will be an expensive year because it costs labour costs, more expensive electricity, more expensive food. It is not that tax exemption or additional benefit may be a whim of power. We believe that these solutions, which should be developed, should be permanent solutions. Ladies and gentlemen! The income of pensioners in Poland is not enough for a decent life. Yesterday we received data from the National Debt Register. Ladies and gentlemen! There's 366,000 in the National Debt Register. Polish pensioners and pensioners. They are in debt for PLN 5.7 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! Why so much debt? Why do Polish retired people in old age have to be afraid of the bailiff, they have to fear recovery, they have to fear entering their worked pensions? Because in the health system, in the public system, they do not receive the services they expect. Poles spend nearly PLN 50 billion on private medical services and medicines. This means that every pensioner and every pensioner pays 1500 PLN a year for private visits to specialist doctors, private rehabilitation, private treatments and medications that also cost. The drugs also cost those who aren't 75 years old. Ladies and gentlemen! You've introduced a 75+ free drug project. It's Grandpa's Day. Does the High House know what the average age of a man's life is? It's 73 years. And that's the first time since last year it's been decreasing. Last year, for the first time in many years, the age of the Polish and Poles' experiences is reduced. Ladies and gentlemen! Here's another thing. This is not just a question of the income we want to work on and about which we want to talk. We also want the representation of the elderly. We have a law on the elderly, we have a law that specifies what the council of seniors is. We created a representation of the elderly as the Citizens' Senior Parliament, which initiated its activity here in 2015. Such forms of representative activity, social dialogue are not implemented by the government. Moreover, the PiS government refuses to work on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Elderly. This is, ladies and gentlemen, remarkable. The Ombudsman is the only constitutional body involved in this UN Convention. The Polish government consistently refuses to participate. Ladies and gentlemen! We also believe that incentives must be created for older people who are already entering retirement age, but consciously decide that they want to work longer. They are interested in longer professional activity. We believe that in order to encourage such activity, those who continue to work and who do not take a pension should be exempted from social security contributions. Finally, people with limited independence. We believe that we need a law on helping those who are independent. We think we need a national Alzheimer's program. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We believe that older people's affairs should be made more aware of by the government. We look forward to constructive cooperation on this civic project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u275	Thank you, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u276	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Initiative Committee! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I would like to present my position on the citizens' draft Retirement Law without tax and on amending certain other laws. The bill sets out in particular the exemption from income tax and the health contribution of pension recipients, including pensions for uniformed services, farmers, professional soldiers, teachers, and pensions, including social pensions. The primary objective of this draft law is to eliminate the burden on pensioners and pensioners of personal income tax and health insurance contributions. As a result, we are talking about a group of 9 million Poles and Poles. In the event of the entry into force of this Act, gross pension will at the same time be paid to pensioners. In the case of an average pension, an increase of about PLN 350. The projectors estimate that the drop in revenue to the state budget will be about PLN 15 billion and that the revenue from health contributions will fall by about PLN 20 billion. It has been almost two years since the Committee of the Legislative Initiative was established. We are aware that some of the rules have changed. Surely, during the work of the committee, it is necessary to review the provisions that have been amended by a non-tax pension and to indicate the sources of funding for it. In the sense of social justice and in accordance with the principles of social coexistence, with a view to improving the financial situation of pensioners and pensioners, it is necessary to consider the introduction of measures to increase the benefits they receive. People who receive pensions in general should not be additionally burdened with public obligations as they have paid various public contributions throughout their professional life, including pension contributions and health insurance. In particular, the bill deserves attention when it comes to leaning over the common good and the standard of living of the fundamental social group, especially since it is a citizens' legislative initiative and therefore represents the direct voice of society. It is worth paying attention to several arguments confirming the importance of the submitted bill. First argument: ladies and gentlemen, legal guarantees give senior citizens, above all, the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and the European Social Charter. Art. 67 of the Constitution states: "Citizen is entitled to social security in the event of incapacity for work due to illness or disability and after retirement age." Second argument: in particular, pensions and pensions will only increase by 3.24% from March 2020. It is the result that the government has adopted the lowest possible indicators of benefit valorisation. Third argument: citizens of the Netherlands and Croatia receive more than 100% after retirement salaries. In Poland 35% the last salary is paid by men and only 27% is paid by women. We're at the gray end. Fourth argument: in December 2018, almost 750 thousand. persons with a fixed pension right were subject to health insurance for purposes other than being a pensioner. Of these, almost 500,000. it was also subject to pension and pension insurance. Over the last four years, the number of retired workers has increased by around 30%. Perhaps it is worth considering why this indicator is so high. In conclusion, a non-tax pension is one of the most important demands that all citizens expect to achieve. The Left supports projects that improve the material situation of pensioners and pensioners, so we have submitted a project to raise the minimum pension to 1,600 PLN. This project was rejected at the request of the Law and Justice. We will continue to fight for the dignity of the elderly, so we will be actively involved in the work on the pension project without tax at committee level. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, let me remind you of the words of Magdalena Samozwaniec, which are very suitable for the situation: "Old age has the same appetites as youth, but not the same teeth. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u277	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the parliamentary club Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by the president Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important day for us. This is a day important for millions of Polish pensioners who have been waiting for a pension without tax for more than 2 years. I would like to cordially greet all the pensioners, all the members of the legislative committee who are also present at today's meeting. I particularly greet the UTW of Otwock, ladies who have supported this initiative for years. But first of all, the words of gratitude deserve 140 thousand. citizens of the Republic of Poland who, regardless of their political views, their history and their world view, supported the pension project without tax. They consider this to be one of the most important demands to be met in this term of office. It did not work in the previous one because the ruling majority did not want to give higher pensions exempt from tax to all citizens. I hope that now this reflection will be deeper, also that your attitude towards this project... It's nice and good that you guys backed him up, that you're in favour of further work. That's the first signal. The point is to keep this work intense - it is extremely important - that you do not block at committee level. That's what pensioners and pensioners are counting on. And who's in favor of that? It supports the union of pensioners and pensioners, a great organization bringing together hundreds of thousands of pensioners, pensioners and disabled people from Poland. They support trade unions, e.g. with OPZZ. Thank you very much for this. He supports the senior section of the Polish Teachers' Association. They support senior council: municipal, district, voivodship. We get a lot of letters, a lot of e-mails in this case. It shows how important this project is. This is an average of PLN 300.350 higher pension, higher pension. Taxes were introduced once, pensions were brutted. We did not do this during our governments, but you, ladies and gentlemen, did it from the right side of the political room because you ruled Poland for 15 years. Yeah, yeah, in 1992. You were in AWS, you were in charge. You've introduced OFE, which you're going to take out now. That's when you introduced pension taxes. There's been a brute of retirement. We want to change that. We follow this example, which should be the best example for you, which is the Budapest model. You guys call it that often. I think it's worth the benefit. Other countries, Baltic countries... I did not expect you to be such defenders of the European Union. I will remind you not so long ago the words of Marshal Witek that there is a Polish parliament here, that sovereign decisions will be made here. So when are these sovereign decisions gonna be? If it's your project, it's sovereign decisions. If it's a civic project, it's an imposition. You will now take care of things that can be improved in committee, to be clarified. Really, just give it a chance, don't be afraid. 85% Poles, not only pensioners and pensioners, but also pensioners, are more supportive of a pension without tax than a 13th pension. We enjoy all the support we can get. And now a good word. That's what separates us from you. We can say a good word about you. It's a good thing there's support in the 13th pension. It is not a good thing that it is not a system support, that it is not permanent, but depends on the will, whether it is an election year. It's very important that retired people have a sense of security. Prices are rising. Recent Eurostat data show that Poland is sixth in terms of rising prices of goods and services. Inflation in Poland is twice as high as the European average. It shows how hard you have to stand today. on the part of pensioners and pensioners. We're not gonna stop until this project comes into force. We will do everything we can to ensure that a pension without tax, a pension and a higher pension for everyone, for all citizens, comes into force. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're gonna make it happen. This is our solemn commitment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Artur Dziambor, on behalf of the Female Confederation Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u280	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Retirement without tax is something we have already mentioned here during one of the talks on the thirteenth pension. I would just like to remind you that the Confederation is this political formation that says that not only pension should be tax-free, but also a contract of employment, a contract of work, a contract of commission, all earnings, all activities. Everyone should be actually taxed because income tax should ultimately not exist. But let's take a little step. We proposed to solve this systemally and simply create a tax-free amount at the level of the lowest 12 times national. That would actually tax pensioners very much. This was also not discussed in our House because we were discussing the propaganda project of the thirteenth pension, which is simply to help the candidate of the governing party in the presidential election. It's all right, it's over, it's over, it's over. You will suffer some consequences for this, just as you will suffer consequences for voting over 2 billion have helped the television to look after propaganda. However, here is a situation where you can make a really big gesture for pensioners and take the first step towards eliminating income tax in the end. We think income tax is a punishment for working. We believe that income tax should not exist. We would like to have a serious discussion about this. If the first step can be to tax pensioners, we are in favour because we believe that such steps should be made to ensure that the system is finally dissolved, as we say, completely without tax. The Confederation will, of course, vote in favour of this project. We hope that he will finally have, after going through the committee and reading, also the support of the governing party. It will be a giant step for a good change in Poland. So I recommend it to the ruling party. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u281	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. 34 people signed up for the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list. The first question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you how and exactly how this pension will increase, given the lowest, average and some high, chimney pension. It is known that there is a tax-free amount. There is also a proportion between the tax and the amount of the pension. Will it not be that these lower amounts will increase minimally or not at all, while high pensions will increase? Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u283	Thank you very much. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u284	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Pressure makes sense. You remember last year how the High House accepted this one-off benefit, which is the 13th pension. At that time, this 13th pension was taxed. Polish pensioners did not receive PLN 1200, but received PLN 888,95. This year, this pre-election benefit, which will be paid in April, will no longer be taxed. So, High Izbo, do you mind? Yes, you can. When there's pressure. When there is also the will of the rulers. And the second thing that hurts me personally, ladies and gentlemen. One Member said that the introduction of the abolition of taxation on pension benefits could be contrary to the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen! In your previous term of office, you made quite a large group of people under the age of 26. [[♪ The bell ♪]] May I? Yes, you can. Let us not use arguments today that are not substantive. If there is good will - and on our part there is the will to work in the committee on this project - then everything is possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u285	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u286	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a representative of the Left and as a messenger, I personally welcome any solution that would relieve Poles and Poles, to make them live decently and on a fair basis receive their benefits. That's why I'm curious about the bill. And my questions stem from the desire to verify the correctness of her assumptions and the effectiveness of her actions. Any law guaranteeing social benefits or activities carried out around these benefits, such as the exemption from pensions, should be based on a specific justice and social settlement. Does the exemption of all pensioners, pensioners and rencisteks from income tax, from the payment of health contributions on these benefits meet the criterion of social justice? Most pensioners are poor people. Their fate must be taken care of. But most of them aren't all. Therefore, my question is (The bell): According to the initiators, is the most important criterion of exemption from taxes and contributions the material situation or the source of the income from which the obligations are to be deducted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party Club - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u288	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I was very pleased to hear the statements of the representatives of all these clubs who spoke warmly about the citizens' project, but also the assurance that we will work on this project in committee and later, once again - I hope in the Sejm. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Polish retired, retired, pensioner is a man who is above all very conscientious. In the first place, he pays his obligations for the apartment, then buys his meds and then closes himself in his four walls because he can't afford any more. Ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about the dignity of pensioners and pensioners. And for this dignity from this place, please. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u290	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Retirement without tax, pension and pension without tax - is a dream of all Polish pensioners. These people have spent their lives paying taxes, and today most of them have starving pensions, especially in the context of late and low valorization, expensive, high electricity prices, services, medicines, and an inefficient health system, for which they must pay just out of pensions. I believe that in the sense of social justice, respect for their hard and long work, pensioners and pensioners in Poland should not pay tax. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left. I hope I read it right. It's okay. Thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u292	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Unfortunately, the project of the Left guaranteeing a minimum pension was lost in the committee. There was no political will to ensure the dignity of this disfellowshipped group. It is all the more exciting that there is a citizens' project on the agenda trying to improve the situation of pensioners. For this reason, he is worthy of support. But what about almost half of Polish pensioners and pensioners who receive less than a minimum wage? What about the pensioners, what about the women whose benefits are on average over 1,000. zł lower than men's benefits? Men's witnessing is on average 2,600, women - 1600, it is more than 60% difference. When will our pension system finally become a fair system based on the principle of social solidarity, guaranteeing the amount of the benefit and not just the amount of the contribution? What does the government intend to do to ensure that these benefits are finally equal for men and women (the Bell) and at a level not lower than the minimum wage? The question, of course, is to the right minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u294	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Hello, Mr. Retired Women, who came to us today from Otwock and more. Well, the Retirement Law without tax is once again being reviewed in the Seym. Retired people are waiting for the outcome of this vote. Studies clearly indicate that 85% Retirement and pensioners are for retirement without tax. It is in favour of the solution proposed by the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party. This bill arouses great interest in the environment. When I meet voters, I am often asked whether and when pensioners will be able to benefit from a pension without tax, which will be a systemic solution and will be given once and for all, rather than like a 13th pension - once (the bell) and under the pretext of elections. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u295	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! How do you listen to this side where the opposition sits... I know it's an old proverb, but how relevant: the devil dressed himself in an ornat and his tail at Mass is ringing. [[Applause]] Presidential candidate Kosiniak-Kamish is beautifully saying that this is an important day because we can remind pensioners because we are before the presidential election, so it is worth offering something... But what guarantee do the pensioners you cheated before the 2011 elections have? You said you wouldn't raise the retirement age and raise it. Minister! Point out and tell us how much good was done for Polish pensioners during the rule of law and justice so that they can live decently, because the fact that they are living worse and worse, and that they are so indebted as one of the Members said here, is unfortunately the result of your fatal 8-year-old governments. Thank you very much. Ha, ha, ha. I think you've forgotten you've been in charge for five years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u298	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am a representative of the youngest generation working in parliament, a generation for which the prospect of retirement is extremely distant, almost difficult to imagine. I think that in this perspective we can compare our retirement in a sense to the independence of the President, and she is also extremely distant. However, this does not change the fact that we should remember education, the education of the young generation from an early age, and that is why we need a change in this area. We've got to start thinking about the future at some point, and we've been thinking about it from an early age. The situation is unacceptable, and unfortunately this concerns so many Poles and Poles, that the pensioner, after 40 years of work, wonders whether he will have enough money to meet the basic needs. Therefore, we need to think about the future in the long term from an early age. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I therefore ask the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister: What measures does the government intend to take in terms of changing the current situation and improving the quality of life of pensioners? What is the plan for education? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u299	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Oh, no, I'm sorry. Excuse me, sir. Mr Maciej Gdula, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I appreciate that these projects are addressed to the Sejm, which are designed to improve the fate of pensioners. This is extremely important. I regret that there was no universal support in the Sejm for the Left project to increase the minimum pension to PLN 1600 gross. That would give the pensioners extra money. That's not what happened. However, I would like to ask the applicants and the Member who reported: Are the consequences of this tax elimination project well considered as regards inequalities between pensioners? Because I was so quick to count, that if the minimum pension is 1,200 zł, the supplement to this pension will be 170 zł, and the pensioner who earns the most will increase by 7 thousand. zł, average - about 350 zł. So that's my concern. Wouldn't this bill bring about a deepening of social differences? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u301	Thank you very much. And previously announced by Mr Jan Łopata, the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u302	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the preamble to this draft law, we read that in the sense of social justice, with a view to improving the financial situation of pensioners and pensioners, it is necessary to consider the introduction of solutions just increasing the benefits they receive. Nothing to add, nothing to say, that's what it is. Retired people have spent their entire lives paying taxes, so now it is fair to give them benefits without tax collection. So in the spirit of this recital, which I just presented here, I wanted to ask the Minister about a similar thing, also giving him the opportunity to increase his pension. The point is that from the beginning of the social security operation of farmers, from 1977 until 1989 there was a double insurance obligation for farmers so-called. Two professionals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And due to double insurance, there was also the possibility to collect pension benefits from both the general and agricultural system, so-called. One and a half times the benefits, but that's history. The final year is 1949... Question... I'm talking about the year of birth. Born after January 1, 1949, they can't... Time, sir. ...to receive combined pensions. Is that fair? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u303	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law on increasing pensions by exempting pensioners and pensioners from tax is a systemic solution and ensures an increase in these benefits. This issue should not divide us, but unite us. Discussion about benefits for the older generation of Poles at a time when we celebrate Grandmother's Day and Grandpa's Day in Poland - while making the best possible wishes - should continue. Perhaps the complex project is not ideal, but it is certainly possible and necessary to have a substantive discussion about it. Retirement and pensions must increase, which I wish the current and future recipients. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a citizens' bill, and I ask that we refer it to the committee responsible and have a further discussion. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u305	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, parliamentary club Lefta. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I ask Members of the PIS: Why aren't you in the courtroom right now, or are you a handful? Here we are. After all, the project concerns pensions, and your flagship project is so-called. A 13th pension that doesn't solve any problems. The Left Club submitted a project a week ago to increase the lowest pensions to a minimum of PLN 1600. It would be a fair project, and the whole pension system is based on the principle of social solidarity. Unfortunately, with the votes of PiS, with the votes of PSL, Kukiz, as well as with PO or KO, this project was rejected. And that's very sad. Today's project, the citizens' project, is worthy to lean on it, can make adjustments. The truth is, retired people are all in favor of this project. And the real argument is: we've been paying taxes all our lives (the bell), working, so why do we have to be double-taxed? So that I appeal to the PiS Members to join all those who will vote in favour of this project being submitted for further work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u307	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that the current governing team has huge legislative problems with the payment of the 13th pension, which is in fact not a 13th pension, but a minimum part of it, has it not been high time for Poland to apply systemic arrangements for paying pensions without tax? It's a project. It is actually supported by 140 thousand. signatures, but also, according to surveys of different types, 85% The Poles support him. And do you not think that, from a rational point of view, the tax on pensions should be abolished, especially as regards people who have worked hard throughout their lives, especially in times of cumbersome systemic and economic transformation in Poland, when it was very difficult to get a job when there was no possibility of promotion, when there were very long downtimes in professional development? Therefore, this low level of pensions and pensions in Poland results. Shouldn't the (The Bell) bow to Poles and abolish the pension tax? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u309	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u310	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill we read that the citizens' bill aims to eliminate the burden on pensioners of personal income tax and health insurance. This is undoubtedly a good direction and welcomes the fact that the debate on systemic solutions, good for seniors, is taking place in our parliament. The justification for the project also states that the state budget will note reduced income tax revenues from individuals by about PLN 15 billion, while income from health insurance contributions will be reduced by about PLN 20 billion. However, applicants point out that, given the increase in pension benefits, the revenue to the budget will be increased by the increase in VAT revenue. Hence my questions: Do applicants have simulation or analysis, if VAT revenues can increase? And is this amount sufficient to cover losses from what will not affect the state budget so that all these sums balance out and do not cause additional debt (the bell) to our state budget? Personally, I am in favour, of course, of ensuring that pensions and pensions are tax-free, and I believe that this project should continue to be dealt with in Parliamentary committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u311	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in. There isn't? There isn't. In that case, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Civic Committee! Minister! I will start with a comment to President Rusecka. Instead of false remarks or accusations, it is good as if the opposition took advantage of this moment and at least apologized to Polish farmers for raising their pensions in 2017. Lie! You have raised the retirement age of Polish farmers. Lie! You could also use this as a good opportunity and apologize for your colleagues, who were prominent politicians in the time of AWS and then, as we have said today, grossed pensions, which is how they de facto taxed. And I have a question for the Member of the applicant. Is it true that almost five times the number of people experiencing poverty among Polish seniors has increased? Is it true that in the near future we will have to deal with the highest inflation in the last few years, which is going to make the situation of pensioners worse? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u313	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Osos, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u314	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Surely we should all strive to ensure that our pensioners, our seniors, are worthy of life. During many meetings with seniors and discussions about their needs, their expectations are often asked to abolish the pension tax. They point out that this is the best solution for them, that it will be real support, real help and that this will be the simplest solution. We are here to listen to the citizens and meet their expectations. So that I hope that during the work of the committee we will all lean on this project and we will work out the best solutions for our pensioners, so that no pensioner has to make a choice, whether to pay rent or buy drugs. We're here to work out these regulations for our pensioners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u316	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Retirement and Retirement Environment welcomes the draft legislation submitted on pensions paid out from the Social Insurance Fund. It should not be that pensioners pay their contributions for several decades and then continue to deduct them from the usual small benefits. That extra money could help buy drugs or pay the bills. This project was signed by the voters of different parties. Polish Union of Retirists, Retirists and Invalids - The District Board of Bydgoszcz handed over to me an appeal addressed to parliamentarians for this initiative, saying that the abolition of the tax will contribute to the improvement of the living situation of all pensioners in Poland who have paid their professional taxes throughout their life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u317	Thank you very much. Mrs Jolanta Fedak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u318	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There have been many accusations against those earlier governments that have established one or another pension system, but from such accusations, the pension will not really increase and the pension system problems that this government is facing will not disappear. And, of course, I am very sorry for that. But in 1999 we reduced pensions by exactly 20%, because it was cut off by a defined subsidy which was intended for the scheme at that time. This was one of the main reasons why pensions now have one of the lower replacement rates in Europe. It's just a real shame. Polish pensions have one of the lowest replacement rates in terms of remuneration. On the other hand, I would like to remind those Members (the Bell) who are afraid of a large gap that pension in our system is a function of remuneration. So, above all, wages are unfair and very complex. Thank you very much. Either we change this system, or we just do... Madame, I am sorry, it is already over. I'm almost done. ...this one-time valorization, which will, of course, be beneficial for solving these problems. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u319	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mark Rozza, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u320	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, governments declared the fight against poverty in Poland, concern for the weakest and those most in need of support. And you fight, you fight, and what? Nothing. The number of people at risk of poverty in Poland is increasing and this is unfortunately the fault of the rulers. Increasing inflation, often drastic increases in food prices, services, electricity, drugs hit those who often have several hundred zlotys a month, hit Polish pensioners and pensioners. Therefore, I appeal to the conscience of the rulers: do not turn away from them and in the sense of social solidarity, accept this civic project. And to the Minister, I ask the question: will you provide Polish pensioners that this project will not be stuck in parliamentary committees, but will be treated as a priority as other projects whose legislation you sometimes shorten to one day, to a few hours, and you accept at the same or the next session of the Sejm? This question is also addressed to all Members of the governing party, because your behaviour in this matter will be your test for political credibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u321	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u322	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As a Member of the Left, I am and will always be on the side of millions of pensioners and pensioners in financial and social difficulties. It will not be a surprise, therefore, if, like other Members of the Left, I remind you that it was the Left who submitted a proposal to fix a minimum pension of PLN 1600 net, which unfortunately, unfortunately, the protective government of Law and Justice rejected without blinking an eye. I therefore support the referral of the draft law to a non-tax pension to work in committee in order to accurately estimate the budgetary costs of this relief and to consider whether a maximum limit on the amount of pensions exempt from tax should be introduced. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u324	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question concerns the Prime Minister's statement of 20 August 2019 during his visit to Halinów. The Prime Minister said then: I know that pensioners often have a difficult material situation. But what our political competitors are proposing, a tax-free pension, is an unfair idea. What would it mean to introduce her? It is that those who have high benefits, e.g. 4000 zł or 5000 zł, would get a high supplement, but those who have very small pensions, e.g. 1000 PLN or 1500 PLN, they would hardly feel tax exemption. My question is to explain what the Prime Minister means by the term "unfair idea"? Does it justly mean that everyone is to receive an equal tax-free amount, or does justice require that the regulation be equal for all and give equal opportunities according to the pension, or is it also a proposal to flatten pension benefits? Today this may be a minor question, but it is fundamental for citizens who see their future and security in paying contributions to ZUS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u325	Thank you very much. And Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dignity pension project, 'cause that's what you have to say. all projects to increase pensioning should be considered not only in this narrow scope of tax exemption, although this is a good way, but above all in terms of building responsibility for the whole system, which allows for a decent, normal life in retirement. The Left reported a bill which was supposed to give the chance that a decent retirement life would be at a minimum of 1,600 PLN. I ask the Minister, but I would also like to appeal to parliamentarians and parliamentarians of Law and Justice. It is precisely such an initiative, which will allow a decent living out of a pension of PLN 1600, that we will be able to talk about the fact that we took care of pensioners in the future, and not only did we indicate that we want their higher salary by a few hundred zlotys. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u327	Thank you very much. Mrs Jagna Marczulajtis-Walczak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u328	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! If the PiS government had taken pensioners seriously, the money for the 13th pension would have been included in the draft budget. But they weren't. If the PiS government had taken people with disabilities seriously, they would not have been taken from the Solidarity Fund for the Support of Persons with Disabilities for the payment of their 13th pension. And yet, they were taken away. If the PiS government in its previous term of office accepted draft legislations for pensions without PIT of the Civic Platform and Retirement without the tax of PSL, citizens would not have to collect signatures and submit a civil project. And yet they had to and raised more than 140,000. signatures. Prime Minister! Mr Kaczyński! You always emphasize that you listen to the sovereign. This is a citizens' initiative. It's the voice of the sovereign you so often rely on. Here and now the citizens are telling you, I'm checking. Will the PiS government listen to the sovereign this time? Are you going to introduce real help to pensioners, or are you just going to put this project in the Seym freezer forever? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u329	Thank you, Member. The freezer isn't our specialty. We've had that before. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Undoubtedly, pensioners pay more to the system than they receive from it. Firstly, if they pay the premium, it is on the market of the pension fund, and any money turnover is covered, i.e. interest-bearing. These aren't. They just go to the pensions of those who are today. Secondly, I think 90%, if I'm not mistaken, but I don't think I'm wrong, the employees are putting more into the system than they're getting out of retirement later. These two elements decide that when it comes to this money, you need to take a picture of this venture, which is the pension tax. But we all know that this would result in a very strong differentiation of these pensions. Therefore, there is a question to the government: could the government simulate, of course, not now, but in the future, for 0%, 5%, 10%, 15% ? 0% lowest pension tax, 5% (bell ringing) from low but higher, 10% from medium and 15% From the highest. Would such simulation be possible? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u331	Thank you very much. Mr Witold Zembaczyński, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u332	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Welcome to the Citizens' Committee. Thank you on behalf of the Modernist for reporting this project. This project should be adopted not only because it is supported by 140 thousand. citizens, but also because, although minimally providing the feeling that the current authority cares about the dignity of pensioners in Poland. Retired people have long been demanding this kind of change. The biggest problems with paying commitments are those who have just retired, and this social group is one of the most indebted. I'll just remind you of one fact. 8 years ago, Members of Solidarna Polski - is any of them present here, or are they only busy consuming fruit from companies of the State Treasury? - paid a pension project without a PIT. So? At that time, PiS supported and claimed that this country was responsible for the material situation and the standard of living of citizens, as the then representative of PiS said. Today I say, "I'm checking your credibility." Will you support this project, or will you give (the bell) a sense of dignity to pensioners and pensioners, or will you continue to make gifts only once a year? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u333	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This is a very important project from a social point of view, which gives hope to improve the material situation of pensioners and pensioners, in particular those who are in difficulty have low benefits, often run a single-person family farm. The Democratic Left Alliance, the club of the Left reported this project to increase the minimum pension to PLN 1600, but we also have in our programme a project on widow's pension, which is part of the deceased spouse's pension. This is also very important, because, as I mentioned, this poverty affects often lonely pensioners and pensioners. It's worth considering. Today, however, we probably need to examine whether this tax exemption is for everyone, or whether it is for those who are in the most difficult situation, because 5,000. zł (The bell) from the supply pension also collect, not coming from contributions, and from the KRUS system all 1200 zł. So it's worth thinking about. It's a good thing there's a project, but we have to work on it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u335	Thank you. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition. I'm looking forward to it, Marshal. I'm very happy for you, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u336	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To quote a classic, I'm going to ask if this project belongs to pensioners. Yes, of course it is. The need for systemic changes is clear: year by year, ladies and gentlemen, extreme poverty in our country has increased by 20%, comparing 2017 to 2018. This is, among other things. Your fault, ladies and gentlemen, because inflation is going crazy, it's expensive. Increase in drug prices, increase in food prices, increase in rent. The Member spoke about keeping her word. And who promised, and who assured all Poles, first of all pensioners, that electricity prices would not increase? From this speaker was said by Prime Minister Morawiecki. He lied. And what did he do? He lied. Then Minister Sasin kept saying that prices wouldn't increase. What happened? They've grown, ladies and gentlemen. That is why specific system solutions are needed. This bill (the bell) for pensioners simply deserves it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u337	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u338	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, this is a bill that we can say as a Left: if you don't have what you like, you like what you have. Indeed, our bill is lost in committee. I hope that the Law and Justice will direct this draft to a debate in committee and there will be a chance that it will be accepted by the High Sejm. Today, there is a sense of injustice among pensioners and pensioners in paying PIT on pensions. I think that in the case of this project, it is very important to calculate two points. The first issue is the question of potential VAT receipts, but the second issue - because we have been debating this project for a long time, I am talking about applicants - concerns the burden on local governments. It may turn out that 102% at the cost, at the inflation that we are dealing with (the bell) is a much too small amount, which unfortunately will have a very negative impact on local government budgets.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u339	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Is it necessary to increase pensions for Poles and Poles? Yes, it is necessary for many reasons, which is why I have a question for the Member of the applicant: Is it true that pensioners and pensioners are one of the most indebted groups in Poland? What are the reasons for this debt? Is it true that the reasons are very prosaic? Firstly, these debts are due to the need to buy medicines they cannot afford. Secondly, because of the need to seek private specialist assistance from doctors, which is not available due to the fatal condition of geriatrics in Poland. Thirdly, due to the search for private rehabilitation, which is very poorly available in Poland. And these are the most important things, but we also have a crazy cost, increases in electricity prices, increases in prices of further services. Will this money, at least to a minimum, make up for rising prices for further goods, services or restricting access to doctors? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u341	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear colleagues, I see a prosperous land, and people live happily ever after. These words should guide all Members, especially Members of the governing option, and we should use every moment spent in this Parliament to tell the governing option that pensioners and disabled people are the two groups that are the most vulnerable, underfunded and need state aid. A country that doesn't care about its pensioners, a country that doesn't care about people with disabilities, shouldn't actually become a state. This is some consortium for your own, a consortium for your clients, a consortium for the rich. Remember that one day we will also enter this phase of retired people, and we will also enter this phase - I do not wish this to happen to you or to myself - that we will take pensions and we will also need this help. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't want to do it for those pensioners who are now, do it for yourselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u343	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland we have about 9 million pensioners. The income of pensioners in Poland is not enough for a decent life, the prices of services are rising, food is lacking for medicines. I wanted to ask you if the government, instead of paying another 13th pension just before the next election, wasn't it possible for the government to pay the pensioners off the tax? Ladies and gentlemen! It's our primary duty to take care of pensioners. Theirs is really hard, and this will save you a minimum of 300 PLN from one pension. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u345	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is the responsibility of every citizen, especially at the strength of age, to support vulnerable people, in particular those in need: children but also pensioners. This is a project that gives dignity to pensioners. So often do you refer - I'm talking about the governing party - to pensioners, this is a really big test for you today. Will we proceed as soon as possible and will this draft be supported in the relevant committee? Retired people can't wait for an election. Retired people can't wait for someone's mercy. That's just what they deserve. Ladies and gentlemen, one last thing: we all know that prices are rising, pensioners spend more and more money on medicines, so let it be our common work. Let's all support this project. Thank you very much. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u347	Thank you very much. And late Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u348	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, talking about pensioners is not just a matter of empty declarations and saying that something has to be done, that we are betting on pensioners, that care or other support is needed for them. There is a need to act very specifically in these matters, and indeed there is a need to take measures that will really support pensioners, especially those who have the worst, who are below all standards of living, survival, let alone worthy of life. That is why I will not ask, but I would like to appeal very cordially to the government's side to support this project so that it can adhere to the objectives of this project, because it needs to be completed. Speak, you have to start act, and this is the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u349	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Ruseck also asked for a voice in the procedure of correction. Member, 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u350	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to make it clear and clear, Mr - I do not know, the Member who called my name, is no longer here - that it was the Polish People's Party that raised the retirement age of women in the countryside by 12 years. And that's the truth. And that's the truth. And why are you lying? Mr... But all the time... Of course, you negotiated a short withdrawal period, but what if we didn't lower this retirement age? The rapporteur of this bill, I will remind you, who did all the black work, was your President Kosiniak-Kamish. It is very good that the Commissioner is talking about the fact that pensioners are very important and that they need to be dealt with systematically. And that is how we approach, with caution, by adopting (the bell) programs very important to them. Because I have very little time, I think the Minister will mention all the good things that Law and Justice... Okay, thank you very much. ...after your failed governments realized for Polish pensioners. [[Applause]] Extreme poverty is increasing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u351	Thank you very much, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. First of all, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Minister Stanisław Szwed, will answer the questions. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish pensioners should be respected and the government of Law and Justice, who has ruled and has been able to continue to rule for the last four years, does everything to improve the situation of Polish pensioners, Polish Renticists. I will talk about these actions, which you also asked the President, but it is difficult not to refer to your discussions and club speeches. First general remark. This is where one of the Members accused one of the governments who made these changes... Let me remind you: 1 January 1992, income tax on salaries, pensions. Who ruled in 1992, exactly in 1991, because then it was accepted, and who was the finance minister? Leszek Balcerowicz. That's where the pension, the salary, etc. started. Not later, only 1992. That's the first thing. I can give you a few more examples here, but this is probably a very important example, because it concerns 9800 thousand. pensioners who are entitled to benefits. We're talking about the lowest witness. You often rely on social justice in the debate. Lowest retirement. So let's remember the year 2015, what was the lowest pension - 880 PLN. In 2019 and 2020 - 1200 PLN. Raising the lowest pension by almost 37%. This is a real increase in benefits when it comes to the lowest pension. Remind you of the lowest value of 2015 and 2016? 2 zł. That was two zlotys. We've been introducing valorization rules for the last two years... This year the amount will be guaranteed at least 70 PLN. And that is the answer to what you are accusing us of not wanting to support those solutions that concern the lowest pensions. As for the actions we are taking with regard to the Government of Law and Justice, only recently have decisions been taken. A change in the valorisation rules, which will also apply this year, i.e. quota-percent valorisation. Lowest height of valorization - 70 PLN. This will apply to all those pensioners who today have a benefit of PLN 2162. If we did not apply this mechanism, but applied the mechanism that was applied in previous years, these pensions would be worth at least half the amount. The rest - inflation valorization 3.24. The total resources that we will spend in 2020 on the valorisation of pensions, i.e. PLN 9100 million. In addition, the 13th pension, which will apply to all eligible pensioners, i.e. 9800 thousand. eligible. The lowest pension we raised from PLN 1100 to PLN 1200 is the total cost of PLN 11 700 million. So the total funds that will be allocated this year to support pensioners in this area, i.e. the 13th pension, the valorisation, is almost PLN 22 billion. As far as other options are concerned, we applied 4+ for the first time last year, i.e. the benefit to those mothers who had at least four children and had no entitlement to any benefits or rights resulting from a lower retirement period. Today, more than 50,000 have already benefited from this right. the persons who or have the lowest benefit paid this year will be the gross amount of PLN 1200 or have paid up to that amount. That benefit wasn't there. As I said, mothers who raised at least four children can benefit from this - of course, fathers too, if we already have no children in this case. What we did in the tax systems was to raise the tax-free amount. There is no better way to support those who have the lowest income, such as raising the tax-free amount. This is now a successful amount of 8,000. zł, i.e. no tax is levied on this amount. The reduction of PIT from 18% to 17% also directly affects the reduction of measures. And now specifically for the project itself. You're talking about social justice. I can see here that there's a moment of reflection on the left side. Let me give you some examples of what social justice looks like in this project. Gross pension - PLN 1200, tax return - PLN 175. Pension of 5 thousand, tax - 868 PLN. That's almost PLN 870, the difference of PLN 600. If you think that such a system is fair, then probably such justice is not what retired people want either. 700 PLN difference in one month between the lowest and highest tax scale. If you're talking about social justice, it's social justice in this project. There isn't. Let's look for other solutions, not in this system. It's like the most important thing that comes from this project. And the second most important thing is the cost we need to find in the state budget if we want to implement it. 17 billion PLN estimated pension costs without tax plus costs estimated in the National Health Fund. The state in the project itself gives the amount of PLN 20 billion, which is this row of magnitude. If we want to support, as we support our projects - whether it is a change in the principles of valorisation or a one-off benefit, whether a 14th pension project will be presented in a few weeks, which will also meet additional measures for pensioners - then let us look at these solutions, because this solution is not a systemic solution. It makes the difference between the wealthiest pensioners and the weakest, by releasing them from this amount even more. Let me remind you again: 1,200 zł is 175 zł, at 5,000. Gross pension is almost PLN 870. So that is the main problem when it comes to the solution proposed in this project. Here, of course, the Member asked about agricultural pensions. After a change in the agricultural pension system, if someone is 25 years old, I am talking about men, they have an agricultural pension, plus those that are developed in the general system, but there is no longer this calculation, it was changed in 1998. But that's not fair. Today it is added to this for this period it. We talk about the insurance system all the time, we're not talking about another system. We support other activities, and this insurance system, which was amended in 1998, is a system in which everyone saves themselves for future retirement. This project is not socially fair and in the form it is presented is difficult to accept. But it's a civic project, and we respect the will of the citizens who signed it. There is a decision to refer the project to work in committee and we will also work on this project in committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u353	Thank you very much, Minister. I invite you to speak to the representative of the citizens' initiative committee of Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. Just, sir, don't confuse the role again. Committee of the Citizens' Initiative. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u354	Your marshal, I'm from the Polish People's Party. The fact that we have prepared this project and it is practically identical to what you rejected is because of the countries that are sitting there and supporting this solution. [[Applause]] And on their behalf I am acting, but I am from the Polish People's Party. I would like to refer to this discussion here. Thank you very much for taking up the subject and for having such a substantive discussion, which shows really how difficult it is for pensioners today. Because it's not that we've put in some solutions, it's that we're trying, it's that the situation is getting worse every day, every year. I will try to address a few things, and I will discuss them more or less as these questions have been raised here and this discussion. A sense of justice. It's just that retired people expect this sense of justice, and tax is that element. This may not be the best solution, it's not a golden measure, but it gives you a sense of justice. Yeah, I paid my whole life, I went to work, I didn't go to sick school, I didn't go anywhere, I worked from dawn to night, and now I have to pay the tax. I agree that the premium is not taxed. It's true, it's just that we're trying to pay for all our obligations to the state. The pension contribution in some sense is also the tax, because it goes to the Social Security Office or to the state budget. It's self-government now. We predicted that local governments would compensate for this loss, not as is the case with all other laws, where tax burdens are abolished, but they forget about local governments and they lose. Today we have the effect that in many cases the tax has been reduced, PIT has been reduced, but not compensated for by local governments. And in many local governments today there's drama, in some municipalities there's a shortage of schools, there's a 50% shortage of wages. 'Cause the subsidy isn't insured. We've predicted it here. The inflation rate is 2%. She, when the project was created, was about this height, at the moment she is higher. This must be considered in the debate as to the inflation rate. Is that... Not 2%, but the inflation rate would be expected. It is to be considered, to be refined during the work of the committee. Of course, the project is imperfect, because at the stage of creating such a difficult project, because it is a system project, it covers everyone. The pension system in Poland is not simple, it is dissection, that is correct. Except I wouldn't demonize here, because it's been a long time since this kind of sneaking started, and these poor retirees are gonna get something out there, and those out there with 5,000, they're gonna take the whole pot. No, it's not. I was tempted to check this data, and you can see it on the chart: 1,200 zlotys are here, most of them are here, and 5,000 are here. zloty is the minimum. You can think about it, you can actually work it out so that there's no big difference. However, it is not that the wealthiest will, as it is said, seize the entire pool of funds that we will use to reduce pension taxes, while the poor, those seniors who have lower benefits, will not benefit from it. No. It is difficult already to set a threshold at the project stage, because this is a system project that applies to all pensioners and pensioners. Those who have higher benefits also paid higher contributions, as someone here said. Those contributions were higher. So I think the discussion in the course of the project is appropriate. Really, it's getting harder for pensioners and pensioners today. It's getting harder. We weren't supposed to... Because the question was, what did you do? A 2% , and 3% , and the valorization of 50 gr or 4 zł... Yeah, except there was no inflation at the time, but there was a deflation. Deflation. We remember there's probably been a deflation for two years. And right now we're dealing with galloping inflation. Yeah, galloping. No galloping, because if the prices of trash go up 60%. Growing? They're growing. They're growing by 50%, 40%. They're growing. Who's gonna pay for this? The citizen pays for it. Both the employee and the pensioner. He's paying the pensioner? He's paying. The electricity prices are rising. And the price of services is rising? They grow because these electricity prices translate into the prices of all benefits. As far as food prices are concerned, food prices have started to go crazy since December. Because someone said, as wages grow, food prices should rise and there's nothing to be surprised about. So there's an increase in food prices, food prices have gone up. The pensioner buys this food. Today 1,200 zlotys. 1200 PLN is the minimum social. That's enough to survive. Social poverty, as well as the debt of pensioners and pensioners, has increased rapidly in recent years. Nor does this show that we have fulfilled those obligations which the State imposes on us, and that we have fulfilled the expectations of pensioners and pensioners. If it is so good, why is debt increasing? Why such a billion-dollar debt? Why is there already 7 billion in debt? So you're missing the money. The amount of pension benefit is reduced. It's going down, and it's going to go down from year to year. And it's not revealing, I'm not discovering anything here. Everybody knows that, and everybody's talking about it, year after year. In a dozen or 20 years, that's gonna be extremely low. This is also a reason for discussing what to do next in order to secure the amount of pension benefits in a realistic way. If we do not start this discussion today, the question arises: When? When will poverty be at several dozen percent? It has also increased several times in recent years when it comes to pensioners and pensioners. Most of these lowest benefits - I will go to the KRUS here - are precisely agricultural insurance. There it is at the level of the minimum benefit. But the farmers are waiting. They have no claim that someone else will get a tax exemption, because it is also a definite gesture towards farmers. And now this retirement age. I recall that the President presented a bill in which the retirement age for farmers was 55 and 60 years old. There was a project, you remember. With the voices of the PiS and your manipulations, this age has been raised. On the other hand, as far as what you're saying is that farmers were supposed to work to the death, especially women in the country... Show me one woman who would retire at this age. That wasn't the case. That's what we said: for now, we're putting this discussion off. For now, when the PiS came to power. You have taken away our power because if we were in charge, then pensions, this retirement age would be maintained, Member. He'd be kept at the level he was before. And you've raised it. You guys just picked it up. Don't lie to me. Did you raise it? You've elevated it. So to say it's the fault. Polish People's Party, Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza... No. If Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish hadn't started pro-family, pro-social policy, you would have never noticed that such problems were at all. The longest maternity leave in Europe, [[Applause]] the longest maternity leave. And the lawnmowers? Have you forgotten who brought it in? Former persons who did not have any right to maternity benefits. Were there people like that? They were. Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish introduced this? He's in. All the projects, all the good projects, especially the social ones you're going to report, we're going to support them. We're not cutting it off, just don't make party policy out of it, because you guys are making party policy. If you need votes for the election, you'll be saying for six months: we'll give you thirteen and then for six months: we've given you everything. What's the point of making a show like this? Introduce a systemic solution, abolish a pension tax, that would be easier. You wouldn't have to take buses, buses, yelling, retirement, 13th retirement. It's not like anyone needs it. PiS. Retired people don't need to be reminded. They want to see what they get on the belt, how they say it popularly, what they get from the mailman or what they get from the account, so this solution is good. Let's really lean on it and think about it to the end, what the savings of this title would be. It's huge, 'cause this whole... We're shutting down the financial flows because we're downloading them first, and then we're making a big scream, and we're making a big noise, and we're giving them back to you. Of course, when you're good. Influence. Retirists and pensioners will first take what they can get to the shops. They're gonna buy food, they're gonna cover the expenses, the debts they have. And it's gonna come back because it's gonna come back in the form of VAT. There's nothing to worry about because you're already a specialist. Because you're saying you control VAT, and you're happy that this money goes into the budget. They're gonna go to the budget to a large extent. There is less VAT for food, but VAT is significant from other things, so there is no such fear. It's not gonna be that you have to get the cash out of the budget ready to give it to the pensioners. If that money goes into circulation, they'll also start to turn on the economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Thanking you for this honest and honest discussion, because I think she was honest, everyone leaned over it... There's just no need for malice and search. Today, let's not look back at what happened 20 years ago or who brought it in 20 years ago. Balcerowicz. Or maybe we can reach Gierek, or maybe even earlier. No. Today we live in a civilized world where we should lean over pensioners. Maybe there used to be a harder situation. And today, retired people expect that the justice that you talk about will also apply to them, so that they can benefit. This is not, as I pointed out in my first speech, an ideal solution that will solve the problem of pension benefits. You have to look for other solutions. We are open, too, and we will also make other proposals. Make good suggestions, too. We will support these proposals, we will really support these proposals. The 500+ you brag about all the time - after all, we supported it, because we also talked about a difficult situation before, when it comes to families, multi-child families. I'm going back to one more topic. Retirement benefits for four children. It is not entirely fair either, because the ladies come to me and say this: I raised five children and practically not a day have I been on parental leave, I have worked, I have saved myself and I have the same benefits as a woman who hasn't worked a single day at all. So you'd have to think about whether it's fair or fair. Maybe we need to find a solution. We will try to make such a proposal that (the bell) will meet these expectations. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u355	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft Retirement Act without tax and the amendment of certain other laws, contained in print No 38, to the Committee on Public Finance and to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations (prints no. 128 and 168). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to submit to the High House a report on the Government's draft amendment to the Act on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovations, which is included in print No 128. The Commission considered the same project on 21 January this year. Let me remind you - because it is worth saying a few sentences in the plenary room - about the most important general assumptions, objectives and effects of the project. Firstly, the support model itself has been operational for about 10 years. It is worth noting that at that time the total expenditure from the state budget to support these tasks exceeded PLN 527 million, while the total value of investments relating to thermomodernization and renovations exceeded PLN 3 billion. This is done for important reasons, of course, and the reasons for increasing the State's participation in support of such projects... It is about the technical condition of buildings, especially from a large plate, where thermomodernization activities can contribute to increasing the load of texture layers of external walls. In this respect, the Ministry referred to very important and precise research by the Institute of Construction Technology in 2018. Thirdly, as rapporteur for the committee, I would like to note with satisfaction that the law extends to a greater extent the range of actors entitled to use these budgetary resources. In particular, such support is expected by local authorities, which, as we all know, have the most degraded housing resource, with a social structure that, in general, is quite poor, and according to surveys, the Ministry currently requires more than 85% of municipal resources to undertake at least renovation work. Let me remind you of some of the objectives of this amendment. Firstly, it is an increase in the effects of the programme to promote thermomodernization and renovations by providing support for further objectives such as renovation of buildings, as I said earlier, from a large album and renovation of municipal buildings. These basic solutions, which contain the project itself, relate in particular to additional support for the owners and managers of buildings from a large panel for making additional connections between the carrier layer and the exterior wall invoice layer. According to the government's proposed regulation, the bonus will be 50% costs for the design, purchase and assembly of strengthening anchors, and such investment must be carried out jointly with a thermomodern investment, which will be supported at a rate of 16% costs. Secondly, with regard to the support of municipal authorities in renovation projects, the renovation premium for municipalities for the renovation of buildings in which housing is part of the municipal stock increases to 50% of the value of the renovation project. Also with satisfaction it should be noted that an increase of this bonus to 60% will apply to historical objects or objects which are located in areas listed in the register of monuments. I mentioned at the beginning the extension of the catalogue of eligible entities that can apply for a repair bonus. This amendment includes within the circle of eligible entities housing communities with the majority participation of the municipality. This amendment also increases the thermomodernization bonus from 16% to 21% of the thermomodernization project value in the case of the installation of a renewable energy source in the building, which is thermomodernised. The effect of the law, according to the government's information, is to be subject to repairs of about 30 thousand. municipal buildings and, most importantly, not less than 4 000. buildings from the big plate. The funding of the new support instruments by 2029 will be charged to the State budget by an additional amount of 2200 million. Of course, the budget will additionally finance current thermomodernization and renovation investments in the amount of about PLN 100 million per year. This year no additional support will be required for the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund, as at the end of 2019 free funds of around 248 million were recorded in its account and this amount will be sufficient to finance all the Fund's tasks in the current year. I would also like to refer to a few threads that were referred by representatives of various clubs in the context of the discussion on this project. First of all, it is worth noting that de facto all parliamentary clubs have highly assessed the government project and supported it. There has been a positive increase in support, which is recorded in the project, which is up to 50% respectively. or 60% the costs of the project concerned, where this applies to municipal buildings in which all the premises belong to the housing stock of the municipality. This ensures that the poorest people living under the most severe conditions will be the final beneficiaries. It's a housing resource that has the lowest standard. I think there are thousands of municipal buildings in Poland that have not yet undergone such a thermomodernization. These buildings were not covered by these projects. According to the government website, the municipalities currently have 35 600 multi-family buildings with over 255 000 apartments. According to a study carried out by the Ministry around 54% these buildings require at least partial renovation, while not less than 1/3 requires capital renovation. This allows for the assumption that approximately 30,000 will be supported. buildings from municipal resources, i.e. approx. 85% these resources. As I say, this applies to the municipal stock of the municipality in which the municipality has 100% assets. Attention has also been drawn - and this has been positively noted - to the issue of extending the repair premium that eligible entities may benefit from. To date, housing cooperatives and communities with a majority share of the municipality have been included. The municipalities are also co-owners - within housing communities - over 91 600 multi-family buildings, in which there are more than 831 thousand. apartments. I think that, in the context of the discussion that took place on the occasion of this amendment, one can say, the systemic challenge is on the side, it seems to me, the government and in cooperation with the local government, to analyze the whole statistical, cost-related model associated with the functioning of housing communities with the participation of the municipality and legal position in relation to the Public Finance Act or possibly some revision of the property law itself. But this does not, of course, apply directly to the project itself. The Ministry, in a very, very professional and precise way, pointed out in this amendment the goal, one of them - which of course concerns financial support from the budget of the state of assembly of metal anchors in buildings from a large plate, i.e. About 50,000. multi-family residential buildings, which were built in large-plate technology. This is the data from the end of 2016. Whereas information about the support for the installation of these anchors strengthening up to 50% of the value of the purchase and assembly project is information, it can be said, very concrete, positively affecting the scope of potential works and the strong involvement of the eligible entities, which can benefit from these public funds in the next 9 years, by 2029. I would also like to pass on the conclusion which is, you can say, enshrined in the Act - because there were also questions on this issue - that in cases where the building has already been warmed up, however the layer of Styrofoam or mineral wool was too thin in relation to the current standards, it is possible to decide on the basis of this government project to reheat it. Then there is also a technical possibility to mount strengthening anchors and obtain support for these tasks of 50%. In conclusion, I would also like to mention the obligations imposed on local authorities, which are an additional beneficiary of these solutions. Firstly, one of the conditions for obtaining such support of 50% is to ensure in a building renovated with budget support that heat sources meet modern standards and do not contribute to the emission of harmful pollutants into the atmosphere. Here, the amendment was submitted by a representative of the Government for the project. Clean air. Secondly, municipalities can achieve this by connecting to the district heating network or replacing the energy source. I mentioned here the preference of the thermomodernisation premium, if the aspects of renewable energy sources are taken into account. Thirdly, it is worth noting that according to the Central Statistical Office, the heat consumption per square metre in buildings which have undergone thermomodernisation is at least 43% lower. than in unheated buildings. It can be assumed that maintaining these standards for the implementation of investments will further improve energy efficiency, which will contribute to reducing heat charges and improving the thermal comfort of residents. To conclude, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to express my thanks to the Government for the dialogue that we have had in the course of our work. I would also like to thank the representatives of the Legislative Office. Editorial amendments were made at the request of representatives of the Legal Office of the Sejm. As I said at the beginning, it is worth noting that, in general, this project has been welcomed very kindly, it is expected both by the beneficiaries of these solutions that have been in operation over the last years and - I think that above all - by local government units, which are a new entity entitled to benefit from budgetary resources. And this will certainly affect in a way, you can say, very concrete, measurable on the housing strategy, which the municipality takes once every 5 years. Of course, a number of investment decisions and some adjustment of housing policy can be expected, the main beneficiaries of which, in particular as regards municipalities, will be those resources that are 100% the property of the municipality, but also of course the housing communities with the participation of the municipality (Dzwonek), which under this law will also benefit from these public funds. Thank you for your attention, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u357	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. Before I open the discussion, I'm in charge of a three-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 55 hours 19 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! There was a slight error in the script for the previous point, so I'm going to repeat it again. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the citizens' draft Retirement Act without tax to the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family to review certain other laws contained in print No. 38, to the Committee on Public Finance and to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy for consideration. And that's where we correct the error. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Thank you very much. We are back to item 9. I'm opening a discussion. The first vote will be taken by Mr Mariusz Trepek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u358	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation, Seym Printing No 128 and 168. The project focuses on improving the efficiency of public interventions implemented through the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund to improve the technical status of housing resources and improve housing conditions for the public, thereby contributing simultaneously to the implementation of other priorities of the Government of Law and Justice, such as improvement of the energy efficiency, the fight against smog and the fight against energy poverty. The need for the proposed amendment is the result of an impact assessment over the last 10 years of the rules on the provision of support for thermomodernisation and renovation and their impact on the improvement of the technical state of buildings. Last year, the Law and Justice Government launched a pilot programme on the thermomodernisation of single-family homes. We are now striving for the bill to be revised after 10 years, which means aid in the case of thermomodernization of blocks, i.e. buildings from a large board, greater support for local investment and comprehensive thermomodernization. The proposed amendment responds to the following problems: the unsatisfactory technical state of the external walls of large-plate buildings, requiring intervention in the case of heating; the change of legal, economic and environmental conditions, which should promote deep thermomodernisation and comprehensive thermomodernisation work; the need to support municipal authorities in projects to improve the technical state of housing of municipal resources; the increased effects of measures supporting renovation of buildings; restrictions on the availability of compensation premiums. Other solutions are also introduced to adapt the Law of 21 November 2008 on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovations to the current legal and economic conditions and to eliminate interpretation doubts. The main solutions envisaged in the project are: additional support for the owners and managers of buildings from the large panel for additional connections between the carrier layer and the exterior wall invoice layer; 50% bonus costs for the design, purchase and assembly of strengthening anchors, such an investment being carried out jointly with a thermomodern investment which will be supported by 16% costs; support for municipal authorities in renovation projects; renovation bonus for municipalities for the renovation of buildings in which apartments are part of the municipal stock, with a bonus of 50% value of the renovation project; increase the bonus to 60% in the case of historic buildings or in areas listed in the register of monuments, extend the catalogue of entities eligible for the renovation bonus, enabling inclusion in the group of beneficiaries of the instrument, inter alia. housing communities with a majority share of the municipality; increasing the thermomodernisation premium from 16% to 21% of the thermomodernization project in the case of installation of renewable energy installations in a building undergoing thermomodernisation. The operation of new support instruments over the period 2020 to 2029 will cost the state budget approx. PLN 2200 million. In addition, the budget will continue to finance up-to-date thermal and renovation investments of around 100 million per year. The total amount of support for the period 2021 to 2029 will be almost PLN 2900 million. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the government's draft law on amending the law on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. We will vote in favour of this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u359	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Dariusz Joński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u360	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I am pleased to present my position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. The draft law aims to improve the technical state of the society's housing and housing resources, but the law also addresses energy efficiency improvements, the fight against smog, in the fight against energy poverty. It could be said that the government of Law and Justice woke up after a few years of lethargy, because in the field of environmental protection, something like that, but the PiS had collided with the wall in recent years. The best example was 2017 when the draft of changes with renewable energy sources, which in fact stopped the development of renewable energy sources, entered the Sejm. Almost $1,000. small businesses have stopped any investment in renewable energy sources. Only in 2019 did Minister Tchórzewski announce that today we can run from RES because: there was uncertainty about the future of coal sources - it is a quote. It's a good thing this bill came out. According to the main principle of the thermomodernization bonus, the owners of multi-family buildings, communities, housing cooperatives, TBSs, local governments will be able to benefit, of course, and this is good news. The good news is, of course, that there will be bonuses for micro-installations of renewable energy sources. And here we're talking about 16%. costs incurred for the implementation of the project and 21% where the so-called thermal modernization is installed. a micro-installation of RES. The micro-installation shall be referred to in the case of a range of 1 and 50 kW. So this is a good, necessary and, you can say, after these 4 years a very expected change. However, we also have two more assumptions. The first is a type of action: a smog bonus, i.e. the project provides support for multi-family municipal buildings for renovation and, of course, thermomodernization. We are talking about a bonus that can amount to 50% of the costs of renovation and thermomodernization projects. And here the problem is that this bill provides that this is to apply only to residential buildings, and we know very well that there are public buildings: schools, kindergartens, crèches that need renovations and thermomodernization. We do not know why this draft law failed to take this important issue into account, which is important from the point of view of the municipality. Moreover, those who live in buildings with a 100% share of municipalities will be able to benefit from this, and we know very well that there are many residential buildings where the shares are distributed, and this applies to both municipal buildings and TBS. It's too bad it wasn't taken into account. Besides, in conclusion, I will propose some solutions. And there's this third area on the big album. In fact, we have 2016 data from 2017, indicating that 60% The buildings from the big plate are after the thermomodernization. The good news is that they are doing well, as is apparent from all technical opinions, but on the other hand we know perfectly well that more than 80% These buildings are already after thermomodernization, so the proposal for this law to be submitted, among others. to housing cooperatives and for purposes related to the thermomodernization of the big album, it is a bit late, although of course it is important and important. The Member said, among others, that it is possible to replace this thermomodernization with a thicker one, etc., but mostly housing cooperatives have already done it, so it will not do it again. And the case is actually quite important, because it's so-called. Connector anchors that are dangerous to safety, and that should be corrected, because the discs themselves are pretty good. In short, the project is worthy of support, and it is worth noting, and I would like to say from this point of view that either the government will prepare an additional proposal to cover public buildings, or simply the Civic Coalition Club will submit a separate bill so that the thermomodernization and renovation of these buildings can be undertaken. This also applies to the participation I mentioned, among others. those (the bell) who can benefit. We believe that in the case of a municipality of more than 75% The building could easily be classified as a thermomodernization or renovation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u361	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Hanna Gill-Friday will speak on behalf of the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u362	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are also very positive about this law, to extend the list of entities that will be able to use it. We would just like to refer to the fact that it would be worth considering the list of entities and whether it is really full. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 9a, in which you introduce these thermomodernization grants and the possibility of receiving this money for the municipal stock, is referred to the municipality and companies, but please bear in mind that as a result of the recent amendment of the law on the protection of the rights of tenants of the municipality, if it transfers its housing stock to the company, it must also entrust the task of satisfying housing needs, and those municipalities which have not done so, will be excluded from this article. There will also be a problem with TBSs, which after all, for example. in Szczecin, sometimes they get whole quarters to modernize the old buildings. And here we would like to ask very much, as a Left, for a second slope of this article, so that really the housing resources of municipalities and TBSs, as well as those which remain in the management of companies and are not a delegated resolution of the municipality, may be covered by this provision. The point is that this money can go widely to municipalities in different forms. The second amendment proposed by us in the form of an amendment, which I am about to pass on, is the amendment in Article. 2, which consists in an increase of 120 million amounts per year, which you are proposing. Why do we want an increase? That is because, according to the provisions of another Act, the subsidy law, which provides for aid for individual rentals under the scheme "Accommodation+', the measures provided for in the following year are planned at up to 800 million, and then by 2023 they reach a ceiling of up to 2 billion, while, as we have noted recently in the budget presentation, these measures are not actually used at all. I understand that they exist as a certain reserve for a programme which, to put it mildly, fails and is not being implemented. I think that in order for these measures to remain in housing, they should be aimed at at at least at thermomodernisation, so that we know that they will not come out of the housing pool broadly understood, but if they are not useful to tenants who do not exist in housing under the Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u363	Thank you very much. Thank you for the correction. On behalf of the Polish People's Party Club - Kukiz15 Mr Stefan Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u364	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about a government bill amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations, prints no. 128 and 168. It is good that Law and Justice have finally understood that the share of thermomodernization needs to be increased, especially as regards buildings from a large album, which should be strengthened. It has always been said that it is a relic of communism, but in these blocks there are many Poles and Poles living, people who have more or less wealthy wallets, pensioners who we have talked about so much about today, and it needs to be realized. It is also good that there is a question of fusion of thermomodernization with those projects which will include investments in renewable energy sources, photovoltaic panels, wind turbines on these blocks. That's what we need. I'm missing another one - electric car charging sockets, because where are we gonna charge those million cars? With each such large block you should find such a nest. In the garage. And here, of course, it is also said that there is an increase in the amount of money for local governments. We're glad it's 16%. that up to 21% of the premium was paid. However, local authorities, unfortunately, even though they need to spend more money on education, on the functioning of schools, that they have less influence from PIT, will not always be able to benefit from it, because they have to find resources for their own contribution. With this support for your contribution, you need to find the resources. There's also a lot of talk here about how there wasn't enough of it before. I don't think it's gonna speed up that much today, either. Large RES projects have been thrown out in recent years, even if using wind energy, large wind farms are to operate. Today it is trying to replace some micro-installations, and we really don't know how they're going to work in cities where we have different intensity of it. We're waiting for this to make a positive difference. Reinforcement of anchors - all this is important, because it is not art to do thermomodernization, to secure the surface of blocks, if it is to fall off, so when you do renovations, it is good to think about all of this being done comprehensively. There's a lot of numbers here. A large number of buildings from a large board as well as others will be renovated. There is a question of monuments. In fact, it's also worth thinking about replacing the window carpentry, the door, and putting it all together. We will, of course, support these actions, because we need to accelerate investments in RES, which have already been carried out to a large extent in residential buildings, in public buildings. It is time that in buildings that are owned by local governments, or in which local governments have a share, it is done. Therefore, as a coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 we will vote for this amendment of the law, treating it as an important and expected project by Poles and Poles so that everyone lives better, safer in these blocks from a large album. We are aware of how much everyone pays today for electricity, which is increasingly expensive. I hope that, at least after these investments, Poles will pay less for electricity (The Bell) which warms up in these blocks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u365	Thank you very much, sir. Four Members have joined the question. I'm closing the list. Question time - 1 minute. As your first question, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome. There isn't. In that case, Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u366	Dear Marshal! Minister! The justification for the draft law indicates that an increased premium can be applied for projects that concern, inter alia, projects. only multi-family buildings owned by a local government unit. However, practice shows that in recent years many municipal housing has been purchased and the number of buildings in which the municipality is the sole owner is decreasing. I would ask you to clarify whether this provision applies to buildings where the municipality has 100% their apartments or municipal buildings managed by local government units, but in which at least one apartment was purchased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u367	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u368	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This is not the first programme of thermomodernization, and I wanted to ask you about how much we have left, looking at the old municipal construction, how much in meters, however much to count, if what number of buildings would still have to be stermomodernized to close this program. I'm not saying this one, like every other one. And second question. With each thermomodernization program, we estimate how much the inhabitants will save. The question here is how much we estimate savings from this for the residents, with the x effort that we're going to pass on, how much they're going to save. And the next question is, did someone check it out when, for example. We were introducing a program and we were going to save that much, 100% some amount we've actually saved. So what is the effect of these programs? Do we have such discernment? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm also addressing the government here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u369	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. I can't see. In that case, the list of MEPs was exhausted. The questions will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Minister Robert Nowicki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u370	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentarians, particularly the rapporteurs on this bill in committee. I think that this law is extremely necessary because it is aimed at those layers where the aid is most needed, i.e. the layers where the municipalities manage their resources. That's still, as I recall, 35 grand. buildings, so that doesn't mean just, I mean, until. 35,000. The buildings are several hundred thousand inhabitants. Energy efficiency. In some ways, I answer the specific question of Mr Dyduk concerning thermomodernisation, how many buildings remain for thermomodernization. That's about 200,000. for thermomodernization, of which 35 thousand, where 100% shares in the ownership structure have a municipality and 95 thousand, where there is co-ownership with other entities. How much will the locals save? That's 43%. performance by data. As regards the answer to Mr Jarosław Goncier's question, Mr Goncier, as I said, 100% in the ownership structure of the apartments it is 35 thousand. buildings that need urgent government response. Ladies and gentlemen, just a moment ago at the previous point, we were discussing a wrong plea about government not supporting local governments. At this point we have clearly stated how the government supports local governments in the fight against energy poverty, [[Applause]] in the fight on air quality in municipalities. I would also like to say with regard to Mr Dariusz Ionski's speech - unfortunately, I cannot direct this to the Member - that it is not so that only residential buildings can benefit from support, from a thermomodernization bonus. The thermomodernization bonus can also be used by public facilities. In addition, which was not mentioned, NFOŚ funds are also used for public utilities. And not only 100% for municipalities, as Mr Joński said, because I will remind you that these 100% this is the support for municipalities to fight in those areas where this intervention is most needed. According to analyses, municipal objects are often substandard. This problem affects about 1 and 2 million people. It should be realized that this is a mass of people - the percentage - to which we direct this assistance. The other is 15%. . I mean, where there's no 100 percent structure. That's 15%. That's what the novel says. This is not here today, this needs to be clearly highlighted and communicated. As regards Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday's speech on TBS, I would like to say and I would like to clarify that TBS is also a company. A different ownership structure may be in the company. If this is a municipality company of 100%, she gets 50%, too. So that we don't eliminate the TBS here. And if it's not 100% , it gets 15% . Here, the legislator should be guided by the principle of rationality, looking at the whole thing. If we're talking about TBS, we have to remember that 99% are buildings that come from... the oldest ones are 1995. And in line for the implementation of this program of thermomodernization or renovations are much older buildings. And there's a prioritization. I will agree with the Member here, and we are thinking, with regard to the Donation Fund, that we can transfer money from the Donation Fund to thermomodernisation and renovation, to this fund. We know that, we analyze it, and we respond to the needs, because that's a priority. The fight on air quality, on health, Mr Joński - I am sending it to Mr Dariusz Ionski - is not only 2019, because if you look at the 2016 data, there were about 16 thousand photovoltaic installations. In 2019 in the first quarter there were 85 thousand. Excellent increase in the number of photovoltaic installations. So you can clearly see from the example of these years how we can fight about this energy mix. I think that this law brings primarily support for municipalities, in order to help with the issue energy efficiency of buildings, in the fight against smog, the fight against energy poverty. Your marshal, High Izbo, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u371	Thank you very much, Minister. I would also like to invite the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Jerzy Polak, to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Literally a few comments on the canvass of the questions that have been asked and the new possibilities that this law creates and the positive effects that this law will have on the beneficiaries. As I said, it primarily extends the circle of eligible entities. These are, first, local authorities, i.e. local government units, which are municipalities, second, the possibility of supporting housing communities, i.e. the municipal stock managed by the municipality, which already has this mixed ownership structure, thirdly giving an exceptionally high repair premium, up to 50% project values, in the case of historic buildings up to 60% - this was not, fourthly, mainly increasing expenditure on this objective, which is to reduce the cost of living in housing resources. This is a double increase on the scale, I would say, of the whole project implemented through this amendment, the amendment of the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. Mr Dyduch asked the question of what the possible statistical effects are already. I would like to draw attention - I have already said this in a previous speech - that for example. the potential number of investments supported in the installation of strengthening anchors, where we receive a 50% grant, can reach around 24 000. buildings. They belong mainly to housing cooperatives. As far as this objective is concerned, which is to support tasks in the case of a municipal resource, as I said earlier, municipalities have 34 000 in their resources. Multi-family buildings with approximately 1 million apartments and the level of degradation of municipal resources is about 85%. These are different, so to speak, the states of this underinvestment, but in general it can be said that at least 54% requires immediate action. I would also like to extend this brief information, which the Minister has already mentioned: it is not the only source of funding for these projects, because let us remember that both the operational programme for the eradication of low emissions financed by the voivodship environmental funds in this European perspective gives beneficiaries, among them. housing communities, housing cooperatives, other managers, the possibility of obtaining an investment bonus of 45% the total cost of the project. With respect to e.g. to eligible measures, it is well above 55% of the value of the measures which are granted for these purposes. This is the best offer on this market today. Voivodeship environmental funds, in implementing the Cinderella decommissioning programme, finance this, of course, depending on the needs of the applications submitted. This is done under such conditions that they do not charge commissions, the interest rate is at the level of approx. 2% And we have an investment bonus, which is the best offer. This is now included in the government programme, i.e. housing resources, which they manage, among others. municipalities, housing cooperatives, other managers - they receive a new source of funding. First of all, I pay attention in this law to the high bonus, to the possibility of redemption of funds for renovation purposes, i.e. 50% , in the case of resources that are in the register of monuments - 60% , and to avoid technical consequences in the form of a lack of measures to strengthen the construction of a large panel, which is a specific objective which this law provides as a tool for housing cooperative managers, for municipal managers. So much for the general issue. I would like to remind you, of course, that in the new financial perspective, including the European one, I believe, the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and the Regional Environmental Funds will continue simply within the framework of the PO IiŚ those objectives which have not been pursued by them in recent years. I think it's also with good effect and good energy effect. There could be a number of specific issues in the discussion, i.e. - let's say - pointing out e.g. variant of the repayment time or the recovery of the expenditure incurred on this component, associated e.g. with central heating, gas or district heating, so that it is most efficient when it comes to achieving energy objectives. As rapporteur, I pointed out to the government that this effect in terms of reducing costs in terms of energy is, on average, 43% per m.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u373	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to submit an additional report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws (prints No 159 and 175). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u374	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the draft law amending the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. High Izbo! This Regulation in print No 159 clarifies in the Act of 11 July 2014 amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws which should apply to administrative proceedings initiated before 31 December 2014 and not yet completed concerning the grant of concessions for the exploration or recognition of fossil sites referred to in Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Geological and Mining Law, i.e. owned by the mining industry, excluding hydrocarbons. In accordance with the solution adopted in this draft law, the provisions in force at 31 December 2014 will apply, which will eliminate any interpretative uncertainty in this respect. The Intertemporal Rule adopted confirms respect for the rights of acquired parties still in the course of concession proceedings. It also complies with the principle of citizens' confidence in the state and the law. High Izbo! The draft law concerns only the introduction of a transitional provision to the abovementioned Act of 11 July 2014 amending the Geological and Mining Law Act and certain other laws, Dz. U. z 2014 poz. 1133, late. As from 1 January 2015, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 as regards the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Regulation (EC) No This law amending the Geological and Mining Law contains a number of transitional provisions relating inter alia. for hydrocarbon procedures, the approval of hydrogeological documentation, geological engineering documentation or operational fees procedures. However, it does not contain any provisions concerning the procedures for the award of concessions for exploration or recognition of mineral-owned fossils, of course excluding hydrocarbon deposits. High Izbo! The Act of 11 July 2014 mentioned by me with full responsibility for the word can be called the Unhappy Law, the Legal Bubble, simply a law that introduced a lot of complications and mess in the sphere it regulates. In the 8th term of office, the provisions of the Act of 11 July 2014 were three times amended and amended by laws, whose projects were included in prints No. 364, 996 and 2551. There have been very serious problems in interpreting the provisions adopted by the Act of 11 July 2014. Errors in the rules prevented the proper conduct of concession proceedings. It was necessary to introduce an essential legal basis in the event of a modification of the concession in order not to benefit from the provisions of the Code of Administrative Procedure. The transitional provisions governing concessions granted on the basis of the provisions prior to the 2014 amendment came into force, including matters relating to important acquired rights, have been amended. High Izbo! Modifications were also made to the rules governing the performance of concessions and the calculation of the concession fee, the division between the eligible entities. These changes, which were made, as I say, during the 8th term of office, gave the possibility to include in the implementing provisions concessions for the exploration and recognition of hydrocarbons from applications submitted before 30 September 2014 and granted after that date. And the question is, where did that date come from? Ana from a retroactive provision, which was included in the article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the 2014 Act, which cancelled all applications for concessions submitted 3 months before the date of entry into force of the Act. Therefore, since the Act entered into force on 1 January 2015, it is 30 September that is the limit date. Applications submitted after 30 September have been rejected, but proceedings have been initiated on applications previously submitted. And this is where, as I'm saying, there are really huge problems. There were no provisions which would allow the correct calculation of operating fees, concession fees, the distribution of these fees between eligible entities, there was no legal basis for enforcement. You could talk about those mistakes for a long time. On the other hand, back to this project from print No 159, which also... I am returning to this legislative activity from the last term of office because the draft law in print 159 also responds to the complications and problems caused by this unfortunate amendment of 11 July 2014. The print project No 159 states that the provisions in force so far will apply to proceedings initiated before 31 December 2014 and not yet completed concerning the grant of concessions for the exploration or recognition of fossils covered by mining property, i.e. in force on 31 December 2014, the day before the entry into force of this unfortunate amendment. This provision is necessary because it is still in the course of concession proceedings before the Minister of Climate Affairs, the former Minister of Environment, at the second instance. These proceedings take place at this stage as a result of administrative decisions repealing the previous decisions of the Minister of the Environment terminating these proceedings. On the other hand, proceedings before administrative courts in each of these cases took about 4 years. This is also a pebble to the courtyard: Why do relatively simple cases last for years? High Izbo! The 2014 Geological and Mining Law amended the rules on the granting of concessions for the exploration or recognition of mineral deposits subject to mining property, introducing the so-called. open door procedure. This means that if a licence application is submitted, it is announced that it is possible to submit further licence applications for the same activity in the same space. The Authority shall then assess all applications submitted. That's the open door procedure. It allows the conduct of concession proceedings at the request of the trader, with the Minister setting out the time and areas for which he wishes to grant the concession. This procedure is much more efficient and cheaper, so it was worth introducing. On the other hand, procedures for applications which were submitted before the end of 2014 cannot be conducted on the basis of an open door procedure - and this is an essential problem - because some regulations do not agree with others. It is difficult to continue the proceedings initiated more than 5 years ago on the basis of new rules. Due to the fact that WW. the proceedings were initiated prior to the entry into force of the 2014 Act, i.e. on the basis of the provisions in force at that time, and at present at the second instance, these new regulations cannot be applied at all, because they are simply inconclusive, it must be decided by law that these proceedings, which are the continuation of the multiannual procedure, should be concluded on the basis of the same regulations on the basis of which they were initiated. The adoption of the draft law under discussion in print 159 will completely and unambiguously eliminate uncertainty on the determination of the rules to be applied to these proceedings. The rule of operation of the new law is in force in the legal order, i.e. in the absence of a transitional provision which explicitly refers to the relationship in question, the provisions of the new law apply in this respect, so we simply need to settle this by the law we are discussing here. This principle of application of the new rules is not absolute. There are situations where the new rules simply cannot be applied. The existing rules should then be applied. Thus, there are no clear rules indicating when this general principle of direct application of the new rules should be waived. We do not know, ma'am, what interpretation the administrative courts would accept in this respect, which will examine the decisions in the second instance, because it should be assumed that there will be an appeal or further judicial follow-up. In view of the importance of these concession proceedings, the Minister of Climate Affairs must be sure what rules should be applied to these proceedings, and this certainty is precisely provided by the laws which clearly prejudice that the proceedings will take place on the basis of the rules that were in force at the time of their initiation. High Izbo! During the detailed work on the project... Let me remind you that today was the first reading of this project. This is a very short, 2-article project. It's not enough to say half a page of print. During the detailed work on the project, the amendment proposed by the Legislative Office relating to the title of the Law was adopted. This is, of course, reflected in print No 175 containing the committee's report. The committee report as a whole was adopted by 21 votes in favour, with 10 votes against and two abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I kindly ask you to adopt a draft law amending the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws contained in the report of the Environmental Committee on Printing No 175. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u375	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for this detailed report. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Beata Mateusiak-Pieluch, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The rapporteur of the committee has discussed this point very comprehensively, because the draft amendment is indeed short. In fact, it concerns only the introduction of a transitional provision to the Act of 11 July 2014 amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws. The project clarifies that the provisions in force as of 31 December 2014 will apply to the procedures for the award of concessions for exploration or recognition of fossil fuels under mining property, excluding hydrocarbon deposits, initiated before 31 December 2014 and not yet completed. This provision is necessary due to the continuing concessions in force before the Ministry of Climate in the second instance as a result of administrative decisions repealing previous decisions. Because of the above. proceedings were initiated prior to the entry into force of the Geological and Mining Law Amendment Act on the basis of the provisions in force at that time and no new regulations can now be applied at the second instance, it should be decided by law that these proceedings should be terminated on the basis of the same regulations on the basis of which they were initiated. Minister for Climate Affairs due to the weight of the above mentioned. concession proceedings must be sure what rules should be applied to these proceedings, and this certainty is given only by statutory regulations. Besides, there are only a few cases - because that was the question. For this reason, the Law and Justice Club recommends that this law be adopted. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u377	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition club vis-à-vis the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on the revision of the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. On the surface, of course, as you have said, this is a short amendment, a clarification of the rules to be applied to proceedings initiated before 31 December. On the other hand, today's committee meeting was held at 3 p.m. 8.30 and lasted 30 minutes, raised a number of concerns for Members and Members on the committee. We asked you a simple question: What entities that submitted their applications before 31 December 2014 will be subject to these changes? What entities will this apply to? For more than half an hour, those questions were probably five or ten in the O.R. We couldn't ask for that answer. Therefore, doubts arise as to which entities will benefit from this amendment. Isn't this an attempt to circumvent the rules that are currently in force after that amendment and to revisit the 2014 provisions? Isn't it also an attempt to circumvent the courts and decide which laws should be applied - whether the ones before the amendment or the ones after the amendment? The Minister himself admitted that this is a de facto attempt to make it easier for specific entrepreneurs to obtain concessions. The question continues to arise as to whether the interests of residents who may have problems in facilitating the acquisition of this concession to businesses will not be affected by this. During the committee's deliberations, we asked for a recess until this information was received, to proceed on this printing only when we have full information, as well as an enumerative list of these actors, those proceedings concerned. This motion has not been voted out. Mrs Paluch's counter-proposal to end the discussion has come. He was overruled, but he was not accepted, sir. He wasn't voted positive, he wasn't accepted. The counterclaim came up. We do not understand why discussion is cut short in such a situation. Moreover, an hour ago, perhaps 1.5 hours ago, we finally received a reply from the Minister, who actually presents, in addition to listing obvious matters, which we understand, a list of subjects, but not those for whom proceedings are pending, only those for which they have already been completed and are requested to re-examine them. Therefore, I'm not sure that this is a complete list. Moreover, the climate minister explicitly acknowledges that we de facto want to apply the provisions before the amendment, i.e. from 2014, to procedures that will be re-examined. I think they should be dealt with in accordance with the new rules now that these new rules have been voted on. Second instance, sir. Here's the question again. We didn't have time because this letter was very late to get to know these particular cases in detail, to see if there would ever be any interest of the residents, in terms of the fact that these proposals would be dealt with in accordance with these old regulations rather than new ones. Finally, I would like to mention the doubts of the Legislative Office, which explicitly states that the proposal to add a new provision in the article raises doubts. 18 laws. This provision is a partial provision. It should be noted that the amendment of the Act entered into force on 1 January 2015. Such a solution raises doubts as to its compatibility with the constitutional principles of legal certainty and the prohibition of retroactivity. In this regard, it seems necessary to consult the Sejm Analysis Office, which we also requested. That's not the opinion we got. Moreover, our doubts are also raised by the fact that the project, which should be proceded in ministerial mode, is proceded in parliamentary mode. You're running away from answering our questions. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens on the basis of art. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 resolutions of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland are proposed to reject in the second reading the draft law amending the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u379	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u380	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This bill looks innocent. The legal act counts about 100 words. There's a short explanation for that. Everything takes up no more than 1.5 pages. Not much, given that the entire draft law, the entire legal act Geological and Mining Law has 266 pages. Seems like everything looks real. The explanatory memorandum states that the bill clarifies administrative procedures and eliminates interpretation uncertainty. This is how it is presented here. For the sake of clarity, you added in the explanatory statement that the bill complies with the principle of citizen's confidence in the state. That's great. It's just that it's cheating citizens. According to the Legislative Office, the project was not assessed by any of the institutions which are set up under various laws, i.e. National Council of Legal Counsels, Chief Bar, National Chamber of Commerce, Social Dialogue Council, Prosecutor General. And you have the audacity to justify this law by the principle of citizen trust in you? And it's not over. The Legislative Office also expressed doubts as to whether this amendment to the Act was in line with the constitutional principles of legal certainty and the prohibition of retroactivity, i.e. the operation of the law backwards. It is recommended that the Office consult the Sejm Analysis Office. We didn't get that opinion. Despite all the rules, you're pushing this project with your knees. Can citizens' confidence in the state be built on this basis? You make fun of us, the messenger and the MPs, you make fun of the citizens. My question is: Why? Why, despite your negative opinion, are you going like a fighter with this bill? Why do you not consult with the institutions that are called upon to do so? We don't know that. It seems that the government is trying to hide something or influence judicial decisions in cases that are still pending. Geological and mining law was created to balance the interests of parties, entrepreneurs and landowners. On the one hand, the rules provide easier access to the deposit and on the other hand protect the owners of the property, ensuring that they can claim. And you want to change that. For unknown reasons, you want to defend corporate rights, not citizens. Why was some of the cases started before 2014 completed in accordance with the new law, and those that have not been resolved, want to end in accordance with the old one? Whose business are you defending? What you're doing is mocking the law process. Members received the bill three days before the vote. Let me remind you, this bill has 266 pages. Of course, it's about the original bill. In addition, at the same time we received a dozen new billings, very important such as the revision of the Act on PPK and IKE, which take the money of citizens and pass on to the financial institution forever, as well as the amendment of the Act on the departments of government administration, which creates additional lucrative positions in supervisory boards of the largest state companies. In this mess, there's no right to make law, and you know it. More than that, that's what you're after, because this mess is easier to hide the mistakes and deliberate destruction of the law, so that it protects you, the rulers, not the citizens. The Left Club will not support a law that is poorly prepared and is not consulted. We're calling for the bill to be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u381	Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 Mr Andrzej Grzyb. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u382	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Such a small novel and so many emotions as well as critical assessments. Ladies and gentlemen, the law amending the Act amending the Mining and Geological Law, print 159, together with the first reading report, print 175, has been amended several times, as was said. On the part of the rapporteur, there was not a good assessment of both the quality of the law and the need for these changes. However, it also turned out that certain proceedings which were initiated under the law in force until the end of 2014 were not completed. Therefore, decisions at second instance which have been repealed in court proceedings cannot be completed at the moment. In the assessment of applicants, these proceedings cannot be terminated as the provisions in force from 1 January 2015 cannot be applied. This has also been confirmed by the resort of the environment, by the deputy minister of this resort and the main geologist of the country. And this seems to be a serious justification for this very short, two-Article novel. However, there is a problem that stems from the fact that, as has already been said here, there is a raised issue of retroactivity, i.e. a six-year withdrawal, an adaptation of the provisions of the Act, which was in force until 31 December 2014. And it was not even the Members themselves who raised this issue, but the Legislative Office. According to the Legislative Bureau, his opinion is not enough and it would be worth hearing the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office in order to recognise whether such a proposal, the proposal of such far-reaching retroactivity, is in line with the principles of legislation. The second problem that has already been raised here is the subject of the subject matter of the scope of the amendment in this law. This was due to the lack of information in the explanatory memorandum, but also in the explanations at first reading, which did not bring the expected clarity who would benefit from this change. With such accidental changes, the "or" or "coherences" often played a major role. Therefore, I think that this is not even an intended malice towards applicants, but a matter of real explanation. And we got that explanation. I noted - the Environment and Natural Resources Committee sent this explanation at hours. 18 with minutes - that this applies to five proceedings, with listed concession areas. So we don't really know who the beneficiary of this proposal is, but we know what the concession areas are. So if we want to settle whether it's a deliberate, special action, whether it's really what we're talking about, that there must be legal certainty, both legal persons and individuals, legal certainty is right. Yeah, but that's the explanation we got. I think that if the whole thing had a slightly extended period of procedure, perhaps we would have avoided the questions that were being asked here. Therefore, when voting on the request for admission at first reading, the Members of the Polish People's Party abstained from voting, because we consider that, since it is not possible to settle proceedings in the current legal order, there should be some change here. Since not all the doubts I have mentioned here have been clarified for this time, we have abstained from voting. At the moment, we would still like to make a certain assessment of what we have, including the whole course of the discussion, and then we will decide on our final position. We will certainly announce this position to you (the bell) after the meeting of tomorrow's committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u383	Thank you very much. The position of the Confederacy Circle will be presented by two parliamentarians. First of all, Mr Krystian Kaminski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u384	As a confidante, we take note of the fact that at the committee meeting it was not revealed, which entities are specifically concerned by this law. Is this because of ignorance, bad will, or is there something else we have to suspect? We don't know that, but we're pretty sure that's why it's a parliamentary project, not a government project, yes. However, we know well that it has been developed in the Ministry, not by Members. The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber clearly shows that it remains above 13% without recognition. applications for or modification of concessions for the exploration and recognition of copper deposits and a further 2.5% are pending cases. In view of the ongoing judicial and administrative proceedings, the copper mining industry is unfortunately paralyzed in a situation where we have a global boom when it comes to the need for copper, which is confirmed by anyone who knows about it. Global extraction is currently based on markets that are either unstable or unstable, or have an unstable political situation, or, like China, are blocking external access. It should be noted that it was the former government that failed to ensure proper inter-temporal rules in the draft amendments to its 2014 law. As a consequence, even proposals submitted 4 years before the 2018 amendment are currently blocked due to the subsequent implementation of EU legislation. Circle of the Polish Confederation is in favour of simplifying procedures concerning concessions for exploration, recognition and extraction of copper deposits to benefit from the economic situation for these natural goods, because today the price of copper is very high, and none of us know how it will be in 10, 15 or 20 years. Therefore, we cannot wait any longer for this precious raw material to be extracted. I, as an envoy from Lubusian land... We particularly care about this because in our district copper deposits are huge and we would like them to be mined as soon as possible, because it would be a guarantee of huge development for the entire Lubuskie voivodship. In addition, we believe that the surpluses arising from or from the taxation of copper ore or from the sale of this raw material should, as a Norwegian example, provide a safeguard against the dramatically deteriorating situation in Poland in the health and social security system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u385	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. Five MPs signed up for the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Ms Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome. There isn't? There it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u386	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think the state of the applicant is using legal tricks. I don't know. I'm asking. And you even want to apply the law backwards, potentially to win further mining concessions at a time when you should close existing mines, existing deposits, and offer mine employees a plan for a fair transition. What kind of money? Meanwhile, the Ministry of Climate issues further concessions for the extraction of even hard coal even in areas of such natural value as the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve Western Polesie in the surroundings of Poleskie National Park, in areas protected by the Ramsar Convention, etc., etc. In the drawer you have another bill still from the previous (Bingle) term, which will allow you to issue concessions in 21 days. Do you really want to... Thank you very much, Member. ...to bring this country to an ecological and climatic disaster? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u387	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have such doubts about this piece of legislation. What are you hiding in it? Why do you not want to answer the questions that can be asked in the case of every law, but this one from the perspective of the parliamentary initiative should be clear and open. Why don't you make it clear it's about the money? Because it's about the money. But who's gonna benefit from that? Why do you say areas, and you don't give companies that might be privileged to adopt this legislation, which is de facto illegal, because it's a law that's supposed to work backwards. I have a specific question: What entities and what money is involved if this law is adopted and who will benefit from it specifically? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u389	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Janowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister. Is it possible to resolve late concession proceedings in the second instance without amending the Geological and Mining Law Act of 2014? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u391	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have a question for you. The rapporteur, Madam Paluch, said that this was the fault of all those who adopted the amendment in 2014. I wanted to ask what the government did in 2015 and the 2016 governing coalition, the 2017 governing coalition, the 2018 governing coalition and the 2019 governing coalition. Why didn't you settle this? There was a whole list of institutions waiting for a decision. You didn't listen to me at all. I've been listening. I know this is about court... I don't care. I listened carefully. Now you're saying you can consider this after the amendment, because we're going back to the old bill. Well, when we get back to the old bill, why was everything else in the years? What was that for? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have a second question: how many have these investors lost who are waiting for these decisions to be decided on the concession? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u393	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u394	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say, this is a long-awaited bill. I'll give you an example of the Bogatyn. Every wall needs a concession. Every five years, the mine asks for this concession to be issued. I know that a member of the PSL club is an ex-director and he knows very well what fight he had to fight every five years to get this concession. We are still fighting for Złoczew, Member. I think the workers of the brown coal mine They'll be happy to hear your words. On the other hand, I would like to say to you what the rapporteur has said, namely that we finally have a chance to sort this out, those actions which are very long-term in various instances. And a question. Minister, will this change make it easier to process, or do we finally have a chance to close it (the bell) in a few months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u395	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. On behalf of the government, the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate will answer the questions asked by Minister Piotr Dziadzio. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u396	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In response to the discussion, because that is the name of the discussion, which, in some ways, can be regarded as an unnecessary discussion in view of the need for a change, which was prepared by the Law and Justice Members' Club and referred to here by Anna Paluch, rapporteur, whom I thank very much for passing on this information to the High House. Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I'll refer very holistically to the issues that have been raised. I will try to present this synthetically to you, but the number of charges we have heard here is actually unfounded in terms of preparation, concealing anything. The amendment of the bill, which is proposed, will arrange and allow for the issue of search and exploratory concessions - as has already been done here, you have heard - in the area of rich copper deposits. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a wealth we have also heard about here from the Member... From the Confederation. ...from the Confederation, that's the truth. We must, we should allow entrepreneurs first to obtain licences for exploration and extraction, and secondly only for exploitation. So this process is two-phase. First of all, we should complete the procedures that will enable us to issue search and exploratory concessions, this is the first element, so that we can take a step forward. We can't do this without this step. The cases took place four years first in the United States, then in the NSA, and we didn't get our sentences until last year. Ladies and gentlemen! Last year we got sentencing, hence the long process. Today, so that we can take another step forward, we should adopt this law which will allow those who are seeking concessions - once again - to seek and extract copper ores and silver deposits, to get them. The law does not prejudge - once again: it does not prejudge - to which entity we will issue any concession or concession office will issue it. This is a process that requires all responsibilities and procedures to be met. On the other hand, the Act allows us to introduce the possibility of issuing a concession, once again I repeat to you: the possibility of issuing a concession. In other words, economic operators who are seeking these concessions cannot stand in the way of non-compliance should be given the possibility of concluding and obtaining concessions, exploration and mining concessions. I'm gonna go over some specific questions right now. Again, I admit it and confirm it. This bill has no intention of hiding anything, it is a clear legal solution. The fact is that it comes back to certain solutions, it is retroactive, but it cleans up and allows it to be licensed, issued to the economic operators who are waiting for it. Let us issue these concessions and carry out the concession process. At this legal stage - this was the question - it is not possible to issue or carry out a concession. I can confirm that. There was also a question about the licensing of coal mining. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this case does not concern the issuance of coal concessions. It doesn't apply to this case, it's an area entirely... We should not combine these two cases, because they have nothing in common, i.e. hard coal or brown coal and mineral resources such as copper, silver and other deposits. Thank you very much to Mr Krystian Kaminski of the Confederation, who supports the adoption of these solutions. I believe that the conscious approach and understanding of the problem we have right now is at the Confederation Club. Copper deposits are important to us, they constitute and will constitute income for local communities if they are exploited. The proposed law is not in any conflict with EU law, it does not jeopardise the safety of citizens and in particular property owners. Affirmative, there's nothing in this that you can do, just like you suggest... Anything to hide. I think that's all I've explained to you. Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Ministry of Climate Piotr Dziadzio: We are all aware of what entities want to obtain concessions. We want to issue these concessions so that we can consciously share and use natural resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u397	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Anna Paluch, is also asking for the floor. But please, my fellow Member, really, if I may appeal for a short... Because we're two and a half hours behind schedule.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u398	Mrs. Marshal! It'll be very short. I think I've explained the whole background enough, so I'm not going to repeat it. When it comes to the questions that have been raised, it is more likely that not everyone listened carefully. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, sir. PSL for a reasonable position, because it is primarily reason that we need in such strictly technical or procedural laws. This is not an attempt to circumvent the courts. After all, the courts, when deciding, must take into account the laws. It won't hurt the town's business. The proceedings in the second instance are, after all, a continuation of this proposal, which was made years ago. As to the doubts of the Legislative Office, I expect that the Legal Office expressed the same doubts at the time of the proceeding over the Act of 11 July 2014. At that time, the ruling majority, which you represented today from the Civic Platform, did not shake the eye that dozens of applications submitted 3 months before the date of entry into force of the law should be thrown into the basket and, so to speak, no one was worried about retroactivity. And the retroactivity that accompanied it, and it's very distressing and, I'd say, without the consequences, is the source of the problems that we have right now. So, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank those clubs and those Members who have shown common sense, because this is what we should be guided by, in particular, by such important laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u399	Thank you very much, Member. And I really am committed to such a brief, brief report. Every wish of your marshal is my command. In that case, the discussion is closed. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm do not refer this bill back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. There's no objection. Oh, there's an objection. Oh, there's an objection. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 22 January this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. 11 MPs signed up. I'm just asking, too. Perhaps one of you would be willing to make a statement in writing. I'd really be very obliged. But if you decide to make a statement, then the Civic Coalition will be the first to make a statement by Mrs Marta Wcisło. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 1 October 2017 PiS introduced a law on setting up a network of hospitals to introduce innovative solutions to improve hospital management. The aim is to improve accessibility for patients, but also to ensure an adequate level of continuity and financial stability in hospitals. In practice, however, the system was completely inefficient. We hear more and more about hundreds of hospitals that are in very serious financial difficulties. Neither the economic situation of hospitals, under this law, nor the availability of patients, or even the opposite, is improving. The so-called work is also very negative. hospital emergency services, as well as patient availability. This law should therefore be assessed as an unthinkable experiment on a living cell, on patients. The basic assumption of this law was to be very flexible money management, as well as the gradual exit of hospitals from debt. Unfortunately, most institutions that had debt before the reform entered into force only enlarged it after the introduction, or actually after the entry into force of the hospital network law. And hospitals that didn't have debt today have a very serious debt. Prior to the entry into force of the Act, before 2017, according to analyses of trade journals and experts, about 75% Hospitals were on the verge of financial problems, liquidity. Today it's 92% hospital facilities which have been covered by the Hospital Network Act. The question therefore needs to be asked what further the government proposes and whether it will take into account the views and, in fact, the suggestions of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which, as a result of the checks after the entry into force of the Hospital Network Act, writes: it was a mistake not to take into account the social aspects of the network, nor the therapeutic and diagnostic possibilities of the individual health services units, nor to take into account demographic, epidemiological or the degree of adaptation of the facilities of the various institutions to the applicable legislation. Unfortunately, the current funding system, ladies and gentlemen, is not keeping pace with the rapidly changing financial realities. Hospitals, according to contracts implemented by the National Health Fund, are in debt because contracts do not take into account avalanche rising costs. These are mainly personnel costs. What's going on? This is the case, ladies and gentlemen, that the voivodship boards, marshals cut costs by eliminating individual hospital departments - oncology, cardiology, health and life salvage units - in order to reduce personal costs, thus restricting patients' access to medical services. It is very sad, because this is the situation in Lublin Voivodeship, in particular in Lublin, where in four hospitals the so-called. reorganization through the elimination of very important, very necessary and very besieged branches, to which are the breast surgery department, where specialists - specialists of national, national, but also international rank - are unfortunately or will actually be released. Today it came to my attention that several chiefs resigned because they were obliged to indicate a list of people to be fired. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no more important thing (the bell) than that which is the health and life of patients, citizens. Please, it's time for the government to take a concrete... Thank you very much. ...actions aimed at... Madame, it's been five minutes. ...to improve the situation of hundreds of hospitals and thousands, millions of patients in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u401	Thank you very much. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u402	Thank you, Marshal. My statement concerns one of the biggest environmental problems not to say: an ecological bomb in Upper Silesia. Toxic waste after the elimination of Tarnowskie Góra Chemical Plant is considered one of the biggest ecological problems. Since 1922, the company was one of the largest producers of inorganic chemicals in the country. Its post-production waste for decades has been deposited on the dumps around the plant without adequate protection and has resulted in contamination of both soil and surface and groundwater. This situation is one of the most pronounced examples of how chemical plants, if they do not take remedial measures in time, can have a negative impact on the region's environment. Since 1994, approximately PLN 230 million have already been spent on the decommissioning of the threat, disposing of more than 1 million m For many years, soil and soil observations in these areas have shown very high levels of pollution, which have been confirmed by numerous scientific and technical studies. High concentrations of elements such as arsenic, bar, borb, zinc, cadmium, lead or turpentine were found from the analysis of the results of groundwater monitoring. All post-production waste from chemical plants belongs to a group of waste which is particularly harmful to the environment and human health. It is worth noting that the remaining waste poses a real danger to the residents of the municipalities located within the reach of the main groundwater reservoir No 330 Gliwice, which is a drinking water reservoir for the north-western part of the Upper Silesian agglomeration. In support of the procedures undertaken in this case by the district of Tarnogórski and the board of the communes of Tarnowskie Góry, Świerkliniec, Zbrosławice, Tworog, Wielkieś, Rudziniec, Pyskowice, Gliwice, Zabrze and the management board of the Góry-Zędębiowskie Metropolis, I appeal to the authorities of the Republic of Poland to take immediate and effective measures aimed at the final elimination of the risks posed by waste from the state-owned enterprises of the Tarnów Góry Chemical Plant in Tarnowskie Góra in liquidation. It's time for hazardous waste to stay finally completely removed. I declare, for my part, that I will certainly deal with this problem until this case is completed positively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u403	Thank you very much, Member. Another statement - Mrs Monica Falej, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u404	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 1 10 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland says: The Polish Republic's system is based on the division and balance of legislative power, executive authority and judicial authority. It is said many times, even alarms, that this division in Poland is at risk. Today I want to say to you: lips. Article 1 The 10 Polish constitution is openly violated. In Poland, the Polish authorities break the constitution. On 21 January, a judge of the District Court in Olsztyn arrived at the Sejm's Registry in order to execute the final order of the court, i.e. to review the letter of support of the judges of the new KRS. The Sejm law firm broke the law yesterday, refusing to disclose these letters, also violated one of the articles of the Constitution, precisely the article. 10, referring to the absurd argument that the Head of the District Court in Olsztyn withdraws the delegation to Judge Juszczyszyn. This should sound out loud: The withdrawal of the delegation is not and cannot be a withdrawal of the final order of the court. The Sejm had and still has an obligation to present these letters of support. Another worrying situation is the behaviour of the President of the District Court in Olsztyn - i.e. the withdrawal of the delegation - and, importantly, a member of the new council of Maciej Nowacki, who specifically interrupted his leave to withdraw the delegation to Judge Juszczyszyn, which is a clear obstacle to the performance of his duties by the judge under his command. I would like to draw attention to the fact that President Nowacki probably violates the same article of the Constitution. According to the law, and this is confirmed by the spokesman of the Olsztyn regional court, Judge Juszczyszyn was in the Sejm Registry fully legal and had to be shown letters. I would therefore like to express my deep concern at the evident violation of the law, both by the Sejm Registry and by the President of the District Court, and the attempt by the latter to exert pressure on the independence of the judge's work. This example illustrates the pathology and faculty of the rule of law in Poland. I am pleased, on the one hand, that TVP has created a new intervention programme that raises the issue of irregularities in the functioning of public institutions in Poland. I hope we'll hear about this case soon enough. I will merely remind you of the name of this program so that we can realise how quickly this case should come to light: "Kasta. As you can see, the PiS castes in Poland are doing very well. I also hope that not only television, but above all the Minister of Justice will deal with this case, will check whether this particular article of the Constitution has actually been broken, and will draw consequences for the President of the District Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u405	Another statement - Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me say a few things about the Western Pomerania, and specifically, the maritime economy, because this is very important for us, for this city, for this region. I'm going to start by saying that we have a factory that, ladies and gentlemen, was going to produce marine foundations for wind power plants, which is actually what we're going to need very much in the near future - it seems that this is the way it should be - and the management of this company, in which 80% He's got Mars fund, he's declaring bankruptcy. Ladies and gentlemen! The people in January, at the end of January, they won't have payouts. These people are about to find a job somewhere else, and I'm sure this bet won't come from the knees anymore, and it was so hard, it took us so long to make this bet at all. The second example I wanted to mention - because I am talking about the maritime economy and I will really refer to the activities of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping - is Szczecińska Shipyard. Ladies and gentlemen! I myself witnessed the situation when Prime Minister Beata Szydło in Szczecin spoke about the ferry. Today, this keel is still rusting, and there's nothing going on in the yard. Millions spent. During the years of prosperity, 19 vessels were launched in Szczecin Shipyard each year. That's right, ladies and gentlemen. Today there's a hula Just the wind. Another topic - Poland Maritime Shipping. At one time Prime Minister Pawlak said that it was our national silver, and today, I fear, very much threatened, one of the other two state-owned companies. I would very much ask you to look into this case and what's going on. Next topic - Operational Programme.Fishing, Fishing and the sea. One of the smaller EU programmes that we are implementing in this perspective, with a smaller budget and the most vulnerable in terms of the n+3 principle. This is another programme implemented by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping. What about the Odrzańska Waterway, so loudly announced a big investment for billions? Nothing's going on, ladies and gentlemen. No talks are being held, and recently 80 million PLN, which were intended in the Międzyodrze, which was intended to protect part of Szczecin from high water, has been shifted to which place. Therefore, let me ask you very much from this point, Prime Minister, to look at the actions of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Inland Navigation and what is happening in the subsidiaries, with particular attention to Szczecin Shipyard, the Maritime Shiprepair Yard, Gryfia, ST The worst, ladies and gentlemen, is that, just as in the case of Szczecin Shipyard, the current government has a problem, because we know how difficult it is to get employees who have found their place in the German and Norwegian shipyards. They don't want to come back so easily. If we lose these people, they won't come to these jobs anymore. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we are still at risk of returning EU funds because this factory was created, among others. through measures from the European Union, but we were to guarantee jobs and production. I ask the Prime Minister to address this issue, because it is really very difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u407	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u408	Tucholski County Council in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship took a position in which it expresses its concern about the situation in which Tucholski Hospital is not able to provide appropriate night and Christmas medical care. The information provided by the President of the Tucholski Hospital at the session of the county council clearly indicates that the problem with proper care implementation is related to the lack of medical staff. In order to increase the number of medical staff in the school year 2018/2019, Tucholska Centre for Vocational Education provided vocational training in the profession of healthcare provider. 37 graduates who were fully prepared for this profession went to the labour market. Unfortunately, in schools at the county level, no other medical staff can be trained. The number of trained doctors and nurses should be increased, but the effect will only take place in a few or a dozen years. We believe that in this situation, the county council states that only organisational changes can contribute to improving the functioning of health services. District hospitals should not themselves pursue night and Christmas health care. The Tucholski County Council calls for action to resolve the problem in a systematic manner, which will improve the situation of ensuring the well-understood health safety of residents. The appeal was signed by the chairman of the district council of Ms Dorota Gromowska. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u409	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Jaros, Civic Coalition. Please, sir, move faster towards the podium, okay? Really, you've seen how long your name has been displayed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u410	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In my speech, I will refer to the words of the Minister of State Assets, Adam Gadawada, about the central storage of energy coal reserves. It's simple. We used to read and watch Polish comedies and laugh at descriptions of the world and solutions in these comedies presented. Today it turns out that this is not so funny, because you manage the country and the problems that you create first, just as it was shown in these comedies. I will remind you of the sugar problem solved by President Dyzma, who defended Polish sugar and agreed to become president, and I quote: to help people like you. President Dyzma bought sugar from the sugar factory to store it. Warehouses you don't have to buy, money you don't have to have, President Dyzma has already solved this problem for you. You've seen it, you've read it, you know that. Let's summarize a few facts and data. Firstly, approximately 13.5 million tonnes of coal are already in debt. This threatens to stop mining and send miners to forced stops. Secondly, mining is three times higher than in early 2018 and is still growing. Thirdly, coal from Russia is flooding Poland. 9 million tons of coal from Russia was imported to Poland in 2019 without taking into account, of course, December. 2018 has been a record year over the last decade in terms of imports into the country of hard coal. At that time 19,68 million tons entered Poland. In total, Poland flooded 36 million tons of coal from the Russian Federation under PiS in 2016. But we also bring back coal from Mozambique or Colombia. Fourthly, you once wanted to block imports under public notice, of course. The unionists themselves remind you that before coming to power it was Jarosław Kaczyński who criticized the situation in which, I quote: in Poland more coal is bought than sold. Fifthly, the Polish society pays a high price for your maintenance of outdated solutions. He's paying for your inability. This is about PLN 5 billion a year. We're only talking about the cost of coal subsidies. Where are the health costs of over €62 billion? Where's the future of mining? Sixthly, at the same time in history we have never brought as much electricity to Poland as in the last year. Our country imported from abroad 10.6 TWh electricity. We've beaten the record of electricity imports twice. We paid PLN 2 billion for this. This money is coming out of Poland. So much for supporting the Polish economy. You're running out of money because you can't do the economy, you can't do the coal, you can't do the energy. Finally, after seven, the only thing you can do is to move coal from one place to another, from one heap to another, and nicely call it: the central storehouse of energy reserves. Do you know what it's called? It's classic sweeping the problem under the rug. You're about to make a Polish central reserve warehouse. Or you'll start storing it underground. First mine and then bury. What you're doing is a kuriozum. And how much does that cost? Who's paying for this? How do you plan to solve this problem systematically? You guys want to move coal from one place to another and you call it a solution to the problem. President Dyzma solved the sugar problem better, or more funny anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u411	Thank you very much. Mr Peter King, Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u412	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to dedicate my statement today to Fordon, the largest district of Bydgoszcz, and 100 years ago to an independent city. On 20 January 1920 a division of the 15th regiment of Greater Poland artillery was approaching Fordon. His job was to secure the Wisla railway and road bridge. Among the soldiers there was a young resistance. Wacław Lorenzo. At that time, he had no idea how important he would be in the history of Fordon, who he later became mayor. The German mayor of Fordon left town in November 1919. The commissary mayor was Restaurant and entrepreneur Konstanty Krygier. Fordon City Committee included among others. Jan Bross, Rector of the School Stanisław Born or Restaurant Franciszek Płotka. The chairman of the city council handed the board to Konstanty Krygier, and shortly thereafter the teacher Jan Bross gave a fiery speech to the gathered people. People spontaneously sang "Rota" and shouted three times in honor of Poland. Then all the assembled moved along with the torch through Fordon. The streets were festively adopted, flags were hanging, garlands and patriotic slogans. With the spirit of freedom, people have literally surrounded the entire city as if their presence were to emphasize who the host is. When the happy and tired returned to the market, the vicar priest Leon Tyhnowski from the church of St. St. Santa Claus. The words of the priest were as captivating as the words of Bross' teacher. People spontaneously made a fund-raiser for Polish patriots from Upper Silesia. In this way, they wanted to share their joy with those who had to fight for freedom. The uplifting and historic day ended with a common dinner for all participants of the manifestation. Local Restaurants decided to entertain the locals and organize fun for them. 100 years ago, the inhabitants of Fordon enjoyed regained freedom, and Polish soldiers from the 1st division of the 15th regiment of Greater Poland artillery took guard at the bridge. During the interwar period it was the longest bridge in Poland on the Vistula River. Today's statement I wanted to dedicate to two people who cared very much about the history of Fordon: Mr Henry Wilk, author of many publications on the history of Fordon and the oldest parish in Fordon, parish of St. St. Santa Claus, and Mr Damian Amon Handczka, the author of the only guide to Fordon, the man who socially guides the tours of Fordon and who is currently running the Starofordon Spichler of History devoted to the history of Fordon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u413	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Szulowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement today will be slightly different than usual, above all a quote of the position of the Board of the Central and Eastern Region of the NSZZ.Solidarity on attempts to anarchise the state by the legal community: The law is an expression of the will of the nation, it is a tool for organizing social life. On the other hand, the law expressed in the Constitution is not only the reference point of all formal actions, but it is the voice of our Polish, thousand-year tradition. It is the most important voice of our nation, because the law is of the nation and for the nation. Meanwhile, in recent weeks we have witnessed attacks of parts of the judicial and law-abiding environment on legal order in Poland. Action so called The 'extraordinary castes' are astonished not only by Poles, such actions are unheard of in a civilized world. Political protests, often inspired by lobbyists, by mysterious groups, are unacceptable in this environment. These are actions which in their essence are violations of the law and lead directly to anarchy and destruction of the Polish state. Who's got business with that? Who inspires the attack on the Polish state? Lawyers, especially judges, should understand the letter and spirit of Polish law. They should. Because it cannot be that officials, and they are lawyers, ask other countries about the compatibility of Polish law with the Polish Constitution. It cannot be that one environment can decide about the whole country and nation. It can't be that lawyers are unpunished, and an ordinary citizen goes to prison for 'batonica'. We, as the Union and as undisturbed Poles, do not agree to the action of this part of the legal environment, which will contest the applicable legal order. In our sense, in a straight line, they originate from the tradition of pre-dissection and communist traitors. The NSZZ 'Solidarity' was born of the need for independence and freedom. 'Solidarity' has always been the guardian of free, independent and self-government Poland, it will never stop defending our Homeland. Therefore, in this place we have a clear position defending the Polish state's right. We oppose dangerous attempts to create legal order in our country by foreign institutions, often unfavorable and interested in social instability in Poland. The narrow social group claims the right to be above the legislative and executive powers, above the Polish state and beyond our nation. 'Solidarity' will never agree to that. Poland - our Homeland, is our greatest good, we will always defend it, therefore we speak with the voice of the servant of God card. Stefan Wyszyński - 'non possumus', not one step further - we do not agree to the destruction of Poland. As a Member of the Republic of Poland, but also for almost 30 years a member of the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union, I thank you for these words. Let them be heard in these important days and let them be an expression of support for us parliamentarians, in making decisions that are so important for Poland concerning Polish courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u415	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The climate crisis is a fact and scientists have for many years stressed that greenhouse gas emissions are the main cause of it, unfortunately, caused by human activity. Air pollution in Poland is getting worse. Each year Poland loses PLN 150 billion. He's dying over 45 grand. People. It can be said that Poland suffers from smog. Such a large pollution is caused, among others. the number of coal kilns not meeting the emission standards, so-called Cinderella. Only in Bydgoszcz there are over 23 thousand of them. They all need to be replaced urgently. According to data from the Bydgoszcz Town Hall, in 2006 and 2019, i.e. for 13 years, slightly more than 2.5 thousand have been mentioned. so the average is about 200 a year. At this rate, all the furnaces in Bydgoszcz will be destroyed in 100 years. According to the Greenpeace report, Bydgoszcz is 12th among the most polluted cities in Poland and 46th among the most polluted cities in Europe. Only in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship the health costs caused by smog are estimated at more than PLN 5.5 billion. The effective fight against smog requires money. Therefore, I would like to ask for additional funds from the National Environmental Fund and the Regional Environmental Fund for the thermomodernisation of buildings, the replacement of coal furnaces and cover schemes for subsidies to higher non-carbon heating costs, which would be dedicated to Bydgoszcz and surrounding municipalities. Without these actions and investments, we sentence tens of thousands of people to sickness and death. It is our duty not to let the Polish air get any worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u417	Thank you very much. Welcome to Mr Jack Kurzepa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u418	Dear Marshal! Fellow Members! Dear Lubushus! Here today, January 22, I returned to the Sejm again to serve as an honorary Member of the Republic of Poland, so now I would like to address you with three reflections. The first focuses on the good and thanks to these 8,000. Lubushan, who decided on 12 October last year that I deserved their trust, voted for me during the election. Thank you and I appreciate, especially for the help and support of each and every one of you who accompanied me during this three-month period of specific purgatory outside the Seym, where kindness competed with envy and evil, honesty with deception, shameful deeds with praise. I'm focusing on the good. For every glorious deed, good word and support, thank you. Today I return the same, for good I will return the good. At the same time, in the second paragraph, I thank Mr Władysław Dajczak's Lubuskie Voivodeship for the decision that enabled me to return to the Sejm. A lot of work in front of your voivodeship, support and ardent pursuit of Lubusian land in the Sejm, is necessary in ministerial offices. Therefore, Władek, thank you for your decision and I declare close cooperation and assistance here in Warsaw, as well as reasonable association on Lubuskie land. And the third thread is addressed to you, Lubushus. I come back here to be again for you, but also among you in Lubusian land the most hardworking, substantive and kind people of Lubusian parliamentarians. My slogan for the election program in October was five Kurzzapa for Lubuski. It obliges me for the next 4 years in case of problems of clean air in Żary, bypass of Krosna Odrzański, other bypasses of Lubuskie land, exits from A18 in the municipality of Dzienniki, hospital in Ciborz, issues concerning problems of education of local authorities, small and medium entrepreneurship and in general individual citizens. That's the day-to-day situation of the MP and his offices. I have good news for you: I'm coming back. I'm happy for you. What about The identification I recommend to you in the near future is Kurzepa, a classy politician. My last reflection is directed by colleagues from former parliamentarians who were expecting, as I did, a positive decision on the October elections. You didn't get that chance to go back to country. I know how you feel. I know how intense your emotions are. Therefore, I ask and appeal to your home environments: do not forsake them, do not withdraw zeal, support and help. Sometimes self - pride causes withdrawal, while many of them really need help. So I appeal: be good and do good. Let's help our friends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u419	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club, please, will make a final statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u420	Thank you. I'm closing today. Yeah, and I've been here six hours... I know, I know, that's why I feel a little sorry for you, but we're gonna try to finish this. Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns the quality of our Parliament's work. I'm a little annoyed about a few things, so I wanted to express them today. First of all, I hear here all the time that we're going back to the past, like we're building it here. We're building the future. But I hear all the time: And you did it, and you didn't do it, and you didn't do something else, or you did something wrong, so today we can do the same thing. Well, if you point out something, you don't do the same thing, it just gets better. Besides, it would be worth looking at the fact that we all have some part in creating this democratic Poland. In the early 1990s, the left, which operated in a different system, had to match the law to the state, to the market, to the democratic state. It was ironic, but it happened. Many laws, dozens of laws from that time still function today, which is well done by the left. Later we adopted the constitution, and then the right hand ruled, which did many reforms - I'm talking about AWS, left the so-called. A budget hole, but nobody's perfect. It all happened, someone had to come and fix it. Later this leftist came and repaired it, but it was all we did for our country. And then there was the entry into the European Union. It was all going on. Now the question is, were they all bad at the time and need to be pointed out to them? Of course many people and many institutions have made mistakes, but we all learned this democracy together, and this market economy, mutual relations, we created local governments, we created a certain state system that works, and I think it looks pretty good. So why destroy it all and say you did it like that? Secondly - and this phenomenon is wrong, because it divides Poles and divides Poland - the second element is the creation of law today. It used to be 99%. bill projects hit from the government, 1% It was a parliamentary bill, today 95%. These are parliamentary projects. Members will not well prepare these laws. Only the government has instruments, institutions that can do it right. I'm warning you, because today, you can say, we're fixing your law, but tomorrow someone will say, but you were making these changes, those who are in charge today. You're referring to the fact that somewhere you made a mistake, you made these laws on your knees, you didn't anticipate a situation. In fact, I call for a return to a good tradition so that legislative proposals can be prepared by the government, because this is the right way for us to work on it. And not in 25 or 48 hours, or in one sitting, it's just about normal procedure. The world won't escape us. The third element. I feel like everyone here wants to play, a coalition ruling the opposition, an opposition ruling the coalition. I'm saying this because there's no dialogue. Our Parliament is the arena of dialogue and dispute. We can argue, we don't all have to agree, because we can't all agree. But there will be no dialogue, as we know, that a Member of the PiS or a Member of the PiS will not sit with Members of the Civic Coalition or vice versa. One good example: Marshal Witek sat down with the Members of the Left after the meeting and we talked. I am talking about this because the essence of Parliament is dialogue, it is looking for solutions and this dispute, of course. But if we exclude it from our business, from our relationship, how we hate each other here... This will be the case in Poland, it will not be any different. This shows that political action is very polarized. So I would like this arena, which is called the Sejm, to be the arena of dispute and dialogue, but of dispute and dialogue or dialogue and dispute, so that it is not a theatre, a cheap theatre with a bad performance, because we affect people, they watch us, they see what quality it is. We'll tell them, they'll be the same. If they say that those whom we have chosen cannot communicate, there is no dialogue, they cannot talk to each other, how will others talk? Well, they won't talk, and it's sad. I'm not going to appeal to anybody here, I'm going to appeal because there's no point, but I'm saying it - to an empty room - to have some reflection, because it's recording somewhere, because maybe someday this reflection will come and somehow we'll have this parliament. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u421	Thank you very much, sir. I assure you, it's recording. You'll be able to put it on the record, and then you'll be able to put it on Facebook. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u422	Declaration on the anniversary of the coronation of Władysław Łoketek as king of Poland. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 700 years ago, on 20 January 1320, Władysław Łokietek was crowned king of Poland. This event is assumed to be the official end of the district break-up. The ceremony was held for the first time in Wawel Cathedral and Krakow was then granted the status of the capital. The prince and king of Poland from the Piast dynasty was born as the son of the district prince Kazimierz I Kujawski. He inherited Kujawy Brest and Dobrzyń from him. At first, his mother ruled, and since 1275 he shared his fatherhood with his brothers. He began his political career in the late 1980s, then took over Sieradz, even tried to control Krakow and married the great Polish princess Jadwiga Bolesławówna. After the death of Przemysł II in 1296 he took power in Wielkopolska. In 1299 he was driven away by the Czech King Wenceslas II, who then declared himself king of Poland. Władysław Łokietek returned to the country in 1304 and gradually united the provinces under his rule. He began his efforts for the crown of his ancestors in 1314. In the then capital of the Papacy, Avignon, his claim to the crown was supported by Archbishop Borzysław of Gniezno. Before the prince gained the Pope's blessing, he had to defeat the opposition internally and externally. Those against the coronation were powerful ones who feared strengthening central power and losing influence. The other district dukes thought the same thing. But happiness favored the elbow. Wielkopolska and Małopolska had no natural rulers, and in Kujawy Inowroclaw, the nephews of the prince ruled, which he was able to gain. In June 1318 a programme of efforts for the crown was developed during the reunion of the mighty and nobles in Sulejów. Bishop Gerward of Kujawski was sent to Avignon with a suplice to the Pope. His mission was extremely difficult, because against the coronation was advocated by the Czech king and the successor of Przemyślidów Jan Luxembourgski, who relied on the rights of his predecessors to the Polish crown. However, Gerward convinced the Pope to plan the Elbow. In 1319 John XXII agreed to the coronation. The ceremony took place on 20 January 1320 at Wawel. Władysław received the crown from Archbishop Janisław of Gniezno. It was the first coronation of the ruler of Poland in the Wawel Cathedral. Since then, Krakow has become the place of coronation of kings of Poland, taking over this role from Gniezno. The coronation of the Elbow is considered to be the end of the district breakup. The next years of reign ended in wars with Brandenburg, Teutonic Knights and attempts to recover the part of Mazowsze. Despite the symbolic victory over the Teutonic armies near Płowce, Poland lost Kujawy and Dobrzyńska land. Despite diplomatic procedures, Pomerania could not be recovered. Władysław Łokietek died on March 2, 1333 on Wawel. He was buried in a cathedral built at that time. He left his son Kazimierz III with two major districts - Małopolski and Wielkopolski. The nickname Elbows - handcuffed from the word Elbow - received due to its low growth.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u423	Declaration on the launch by the National Health Fund of a portal with free diets for people of all ages. In my statement, I would like to draw attention to two threads on the need and popularity of a healthy lifestyle that are increasingly relevant to social trends. The National Health Fund has launched a dedicated portal with free diets for people of all ages. The portal has great interest, since it has already been used by a quarter of a million users. Using the run dietary portal.nfz. gov.pl is an excellent alternative for people who do not necessarily have extensive knowledge about the need to provide all micro- and macro-nutrients to the body, thus looking for frequently unverified diets on the Internet on their own. Interested in healthy nutrition will also be found on the portal, among others. suggestions of different calories along with recipes and a shopping list. The portal will also provide the possibility to calculate the BMI body mass index and then indicate whether the weight of the person concerned is correct. A very desirable function of the portal is to indicate the amount of calories that a person must deliver to his body in a certain way of life. In addition, the portal offers a menu for five types based on the DASH diet, which according to the National Health Fund is on an equal footing with the Mediterranean diet considered the world's healthiest diet and has recommendations from scientific associations, among others. diabetes or cardiological. I would like to point out in my statement that the launch and operation of the portal solves an important social problem. This is to meet the needs of a community seeking verified knowledge of healthy nutrition, which is directly translated into health-promoting policies. It should be all the more exciting to be interested in him, and through my statement I would like to promote his functioning and demonstrate his possibilities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-01-22-sejm-04-1.u424	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. 23 January 2020 at 3 p.m. 10. Have a good evening. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 08]]
