ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u1	Resume session. Please take your seats. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. I would also like to remind you that there is a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the test vote to determine the number of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind ladies and gentlemen of the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting about the need to press 2 buttons in turn during the vote: first in the top right corner of the screen and later, after showing the window, in order to confirm the vote. Please proceed to the vote. I don't have a card... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I remind you that those in the O.R. turn off the applications because they're... No, no, the other way around this card... There it is. Good. One more person from the remote voter is asked to press the second push of the "Submit" button. Let me remind you that this button should be pressed twice: first at the top of the screen, and when you open the window the second time. Thank you. It's done. Please state the results of the vote. Wait a minute. Wait, wait, wait. Is anyone in trouble? Mr. Late Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is a test vote, so please report if anyone has any technical problems. 90 senators voted and that is the number of senators attending the sitting, so that we have a quorum to sit. [[Voting No 2]] Ladies and gentlemen, as announced earlier, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating the victim of Katyn Crime on the 80th anniversary of the event and considering it as the third item of the agenda; the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Polish Government to announce immediately the final decision on the eighth grade exams and prom exams in the 2019/2020 school year and to consider it as the fourth item of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. Mr. Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u2	Mr. Marshal, I am opposed to supplementing the agenda with this second item, a resolution calling for the government...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u3	Thank you very much. As I understand it, there are no objections to the Katyn crime project. Therefore, against the opposition of Senator Martynowski, we will proceed to the vote on the proposal concerning the point: the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Polish Government to immediately announce the final decision on eighth grade exams and prom exams in the 2019/2020 school year. Who is in favour of putting this item on the agenda? We will vote a little slower, although the pace is not the worst, as we have seen from previous experiences. Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely... look if you've pressed the button twice... I don't see who it is, but... Oh, it's okay. Good. Please state the results of the vote. This time 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against. [[Voting No 3]] Therefore, the point was introduced. We proceed with the examination of the third item: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating the victim of Katyn Crime on the 80th anniversary of its execution. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 89, and the report "Print No 89 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a draft resolution from the seat of the committee's report. Senator Halina Poor... And it says here that Magdalena Kochan, but this is clearly a typographical error. I take it as a lapsus inches. Therefore, Senator Halin Poor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept, with the self-correction of the deletion of the paragraph, the State already has a single text. The project contained in print no. 89 of the resolution commemorating the victim of Katyn's Crime on the 80th anniversary of it. Let me remind you that on April 13th we celebrated the Day of Remembrance of the Victims of Katyn Crime, so this is the most appropriate moment to commemorate these victims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, and Senator Secretary, please send this letter to Senator Ryszard Śvilski. I ask the senators who participate remotely in the meeting to ask questions via chat in the application. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no questions from any of our meeting centers, so... I volunteer... Question or discussion? It's for discussion. It's for discussion. That's different. I'm opening a discussion. I repeat that the senators in room 217 would like to speak to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, who will forward this list to Senator Ryszard Świlski, and those who participate in the sitting remotely, please report to the discussion via a chat room. As before, I would like to remind you that speeches and proposals of a legislative nature may be sent electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to you. As far as the list of speakers is concerned, if there are more submissions, the vote will be given alternately to the Senate and to those who are sitting remotely. I understand that Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u6	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my satisfaction and satisfaction at the fact that in these difficult times, when other problems usually come to the stage first in our public life, the Senate will, however, undertake to commemorate this unique crime, which was in fact a genocide carried out on Polish intelligence by the Stalinist criminal regime. From this point of view, it is good that in this whole discussion on the current issues, the Senate will bend over, too, to this important project. I would like to draw attention to the fact that there were absolutely no deeper divisions in committee proceedings than the need for commemoration. Some historical aspects have been discussed, and it has been considered whether certain wordings would need to be specified. I think that the spirit has been overcome at the moment, so that we will be able and, if we succeed, in corporation, the entire Senate, have taken this resolution, hence these proposals simply have not been subject to the procedure. So that once again I would like to thank the applicants for the fact that such a project has been submitted. I think it has been very good, and it is very good that the Senate will take a position on this very important matter. All the more so, please note that in the general consciousness usually German crimes, among others. sandstone or other genocide activities that took place by the German Nazi regime are more well-known, they exist in public consciousness. This happened for various reasons, also historical, I am thinking about our latest history, which is the period of the Polish People's Republic, when the case of the Katyn crime was simply censored and the real information about this huge tragedy was not allowed. And we must remember that by 1941, the Nazi regime and the Stalinist regime had dealt with the extermination of Polish elites. It was a plan that was perfect, different techniques, but in principle led together, and it was a tribute to the Ribbentrop Pact. We have to remember that. For us Poles, this crime and its disclosure in April 1943 is still of additional importance. It was used... to expose this crime by the Germans... Of course, the Germans premeditatedly used it in their propaganda activities, which in fact led to the break-up of the relations of the immigration government with Moscow and to the possibility for the Soviet Union to carry out a plan to vassal Poland, which happened in the so-called. It's the polantanian order. These threads, of course, are not in this resolution. It concerns the event itself, but I think it's worth remembering about this aspect too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u7	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Halin Poor will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u8	I would like to remind you very briefly that we are proceeding with a resolution commemorating the victims of the Katyn crime, not the crime itself. I think the senator just used a thought shortcut, but I would stress it so that everything was clear. The victims of the crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u9	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have already expressed my doubts at the committee meeting. I think they should also sound here because the Senate has a special role in preserving historical memory, in order to sustain this memory. Here, from this House, the whole truth about a given event should come out. It's a good thing we're making this resolution. She's needed. Reminds both our society and external forces, apart from Poland, that such an event as the Katyn crime It was actually a series of events. What do I miss about this resolution? Maybe another way: what's not quite clear? First question: who was the author of this crime? There is a concept that only once appears here, the concept of the Soviet regime, but in my opinion it is necessary to use the name of the country which was involved in all this, and to name specifically the head of this country, or Stalin. The name of the Socialist Union of the Soviet Republics should appear here, all the more so as Okay, let's remember. This resolution will probably echo outside Poland. The second point is related to the concept of genocide. Here again are the words we used to fight. In quotes, of course. That's what's known as genocide. It was on the occasion of resolutions taken, I would say, in Polish-Ukrainian relations, concerning the Volyn tragedy. There, the word "named" was often found in the texts. Recently, three years ago, we led to the fact that the word "genocide" appeared directly. And that's a clear legal qualification. Here again we use the wording of the known genocide, not the term "genocide." There is no clear statement of fact, and it was genocide. And two issues related to the broader perspective and impact of these events on history. Let us remember that when the genocide was carried out, the Soviet Union was in an alliance with the Germans. With Nazi Germans, Nazis. Both countries have jointly pursued a certain idea and this idea needs to be clearly defined. It was deliberate destruction, first, of the Polish national elites, second, of the nation as such. The destruction of the elite was different on the Russian or Soviet side, different on the German side, but the goal was the same. This destruction was carried out in an agreement. We remember what happened just after the September campaign, about transferring people from one to another sphere of influence, etc. That's what I miss about this resolution, too. It wasn't a coincidence. Katyn wasn't an accident. It was part of a bigger plan. The implementation of this plan began with exports just after the September campaign, in 1940, and ended with the Soldiers of the Cursed after the end of the war. From the point of view of the Soviet plan, the Russian purpose was simply clear. Katyn is one of the elements of achieving this goal. That's not enough. Of course, this goal is not being achieved now, but it is still being lied about. Let us remember that the recent speeches of the head of the Russian state have a uniform kind of spine, they are uniform. He's trying to black out history. The Russian state is there as the winner of the great national war that began when? In 1941. What happened before that? [[Talking in the O.R.]] What happened before that? That's the question. Well, Katyń had been there before. From our point of view, both the Nazi Germans and the Soviet Russia, the Soviet Union were aggressors who attacked Poland in 1939 and then carried out war crimes of various kinds. And that's something that needs to be made clear. If we do not say this in such a resolution, if we do not say what is the context that goes up to today, unfortunately, we are leading to the fact that this is the context that will not be discussed outside the country. And on May 9, Mr. Putin will present his own version of the story, uncontrated in any way by our statement, our speech. 'Cause it's just a fact-finding thing. Without indicating what these facts are related to That's not enough. And that's what I miss about this resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u11	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Senator Ujazdowski, I would like to remind you that it is a duty to wear masks from now on. But let me clarify this a bit, because the regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers at one point says that you have to wear these masks everywhere in public institutions, etc., and the next one says that you don't have to wear if you do business, except when you have direct contact, tête-à-tête, with the other person. It's a bit of a contradiction. The fact that Senator Czerwiński or Senator Borowski are without masks... They do not move beyond the scope of this provision, it must be said clearly, while the assumption of these masks is absolutely advisable. And I'm saying it now as a doctor. And as a surgeon, I'd really like to ask... Because it's better not to have a mask at all than to wear it with your nose exposed, because it's done through your nose... Yeah, right... Thank you, Senator Chudowska, for confirming my assumption. Well, the nose exhales about 80%. pathogens, because we usually breathe through the nose, not through the mouth. So I would ask you to take this as good advice, let's say, surgical advice and advice serving only and exclusively the purpose of limiting the transmission of the virus. He, as you know, is quite strong and quite easy to move, although he is far from many other viruses. May I add, Mr. Marshal? You're welcome. Ad vocem... Besides, the mouth can be closed, and the nose is always open. Thank you very much, Senator. It would be good for some to keep their mouths shut... Well, that's another digression. You can't see the smile on our faces. I hope you've taken this ridiculously. Senator Ujazdowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. I believe that the resolution is clear and unambiguous in substance, and that it cannot be seen in isolation from the efforts of both chambers of the Polish Parliament for many years in this matter. And as for this international aspect, I have a suggestion and a request to your marshal that this resolution and perhaps a few others of this rank, taken during this term, be officially transferred to the other chambers of European Parliaments with which we have the closest contact, because what is really failing in Poland, is that there is no systematic effort to communicate our position to the international public. The Katyn crime is part of the memory of the entire international community. So I would like to ask you to introduce a practice that will make the Senate an institution that conducts a systematic historical policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u13	Thank you very much, senator. Mr. Senator Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This resolution is consistent, this resolution is good. It describes in a proper way this tragedy, which met Polish elites 80 years ago. Everyone would probably see an additional sentence there, would like to complement it, but in my opinion, it reflects historical reality. She's a memorial. I would suggest to the High Senate that, using this resolution, we also remember and remind that there is such a place in Poland that there is a place in Warsaw where both commemoration and hard documentary work meet, and create not a national altar, but a fantastic center of education, especially for the young generation. I am referring here to the Katyn Museum in the area of the Warsaw Citadel. I had the pleasure of setting them up as a minister in the Citadel of Warsaw. It is worth remembering, because it is the only unique facility in the world. And let me repeat again: she not only collects and documents souvenirs from those who died, she is also a place prepared to carry out extensive educational work. And that is why I encourage all senators and all senators to remember this and to encourage our voters to use the Katyn Museum in the Citadel of Warsaw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u15	Thank you, Senator. Thank you so much for these valuable tips. Right now, Mr. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz It's remote. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u16	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would just like to thank you very much as an applicant for the resolution. Of course, the resolution, I remind you, is not a historical content from the beginning to the end, therefore... All these justifications are usually there. But I want to be Mrs. Alina Fedorowiczova's son, who was Katyn's widow before she met my father... A little louder, Mr. Senator. My mother was a Katyn widow before she met my father. I'm in the Association of Victims of the Katyn Family. I would like to thank Mrs Isabella Sariusz-Skąpska and those who simply remember this. And I would like to conclude by saying that this fate, which then met Poland, cannot be forgotten. Probably someday this crime will be considered genocide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask you to correct a little of the camera, because it only showed a piece of the senator's noble face. And right now, Mr. Senator Comfort.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u18	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Very briefly. I would like to thank you very much for this initiative. She's very important. I would like to thank, in particular, Senator Fedorovich and all those who contributed to the writing of this text. There's something I need to do... I would also like to thank Senator Czerwinski for his voice. The point is that also in the Council of Europe a few months ago we were dealing with such a Russian action of relativization of history, a very significant action in which the Russians tried to impose such a narrative that Poland was indeed a country that contributed to the outbreak of World War II. We have resisted it, but this resolution, if it is publicized, if we can use it soon, will help us very much to respond to those Russian accusations sucked out of our finger. So I'd like to thank you very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u19	Thank you very much, senator. I understand you support this vote to send this resolution to the senates of other countries. We don't normally do it in this form, but I'm willing to agree to that conclusion. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. No legislative proposals have been submitted. I would also ask all of you to check whether all requests and submissions have been submitted. I think so, because Mr. Secretary, Senator Śvilski, is very efficient in managing this with the staff. I state that all requests and submissions have already been submitted. Then I will close the discussion. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of the fourth agenda item: the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Polish Government to announce the final decision on eighth grade exams and prom exams in the 2019/2020 school year. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 102, and the report is published in print No 102 S. I'm asking the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission for this time, I don't think I'm wrong. Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The draft resolution is caused by concern for young people, those who finish a certain stage of their education in primary school, i.e. eighth graders, and those who finish the next stage of their education, i.e. seniors. None of the applicants wanted to blame for the situation caused by the crisis related to the coravirus, the government of the Republic of Poland, but we considered that the uncertainty of the youngest citizens of our country, aggravated by what their parents are worried about, cannot be the subject of the concern and rapid reaction of the rulers, including the Minister of National Education and the Minister of Higher Education. We consider that the announcement of April 10th, 11 days before the date of the eighth grade exams, information that both the Matura and these exams are postponed in time Without providing information as to whether these exams will take place, the form in which they should take place, as well as whether young people, their parents and teachers and local government officials can wait calmly for these exams to take place was insufficient. So we call on the government not to decide whether or not to give up the exams, but to make the same decision whether they will or will not be. Let me remind you that the international graduation was canceled in 2020. And that's all it is. For the peace of a whole crowd of young people, their parents, their teachers, as well as local governments responsible or co-responsible for carrying out these exams. Following the discussion, following the adoption of the editorial self-corrections, the Commission resolutely, after a debate in which there were votes to reject this text in its entirety or to withdraw this resolution until a representative of the Minister of National Education or the Government responds to the growing doubts today, by a majority of votes, adopted this draft resolution and asked the Senate to support this resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent them. I would like to remind you repetitively that the senators in room 217 ask you to ask questions to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, who will pass this on to Senator Świlski, and your senators participating in the sitting remotely ask you to ask questions via chat in the application. Would any of your senators like to ask you a question? Senator Bogucki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u22	As a former teacher, I would like to ask whether the state, when working on this resolution, did not take into account the fact that asking this question is in a similar way as asking Minister Krasca a question about when the Coronavirus epidemic would end. These are questions that aren't answered, and they can't be answered right now. Do you consider whether it's worth inciting seniors, those who are preparing for exams... I, even though it's been many years since then, still remember my graduation. We didn't watch when it was due, we just sat down, we took textbooks and we just studied. As I suspect, seniors are acting at the moment. As long as politicians don't try to mess with their heads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u23	I understand that's the question... The question was at first... ...to the senator of the rapporteur. Yeah, to... Senator Lover. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u24	Mr. Senator, not without a Cosser, I was talking about the fact that both eighth graders and seniors are finishing a certain stage of their education. And some, and others, are waiting to be informed about whether they will go to higher education, to secondary schools, how they will be recruited there, and how universities will take up higher education... It's true that when the pandemic ends, we don't know the answer. But does this mean that there will be no admissions to the first-grade classes, techs, high-schools and first-year studies, or will it be empty yearbooks? How seniors and eighth graders complete their education depends on how the first year of secondary education and higher education will look like. So the government can't be dumb about this. He has to make a decision and say: we give up exams for eighth graders, the recruitment to secondary schools will take place on the basis of a certificate contest. Does the government say that? No. Does the government say, "Listen, there is no international exam, maybe we should try, in agreement with the rectors of higher education, to assess the seniors on a different basis than the Matura itself, because somehow they will have to start their studies from October, November or December next year?" No. And our resolution only goes to one thing: to speed up the government's work on these problems and calm young people, their parents, local government officials, rectors, teachers and lecturers. Nothing else, Senator. The decision on this matter belongs to the Government and it is the responsibility of the Government to take it as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u25	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Skurkiewicz a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Senator, perhaps it was a slip on your part that the exam has an effect on whether or not someone will be promoted to the next class. No, the exam doesn't affect whether someone will be promoted to the next class. Neither the eighth grade exam has an impact on this, nor does the final exam have an impact on it. I understand it was just a slip you made just a moment ago. I would like to draw attention to one very important point. The authors of this speech address them to the government. You are an experienced politician, and you know that in this case, not the government, and the Minister of Education is making a decision. But the government... But it is not the government that takes it in the form of a resolution of the Council of Ministers, it is the Minister of Education who decides when there will be a deadline in which formula It'll all be done. Today a horse with a row of those who would decide that. These exams will take place at the beginning of June or mid-May. I'm also very interested in this case. I have a daughter who ends eighth grade this year. Especially since I live in Mazowsze and, unfortunately, the case of Cortipinus has also gotten mixed up with mazovian winter holidays, so practically the child hasn't attended school since the beginning of February. But he works all the time uninspired, not in nervousness, not with problems. He works with his teachers all the time in the form of e-learning, in the form of lessons that are being conducted, so... Mr. Senator, one minute. Today I think it's primarily the wrong recipient. Have you ever considered referring this to the Minister of Education and not to the Government? And I would like to assure you that this issue is really being raised very often at government meetings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u27	Was there a question, Senator? Well, it was... Senator Professor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u28	Senator, it is true that the eighth grade exams and exams are in the regulation of the Minister of National Education, and then in the schedules of the Central Examination Committee, but, in answer to your question, I find the fact that the Minister of National Education is a subordinate, although it may be a bad word, the Prime Minister of the Government, therefore such decisions, of such a crucial nature, must be taken in the government, I believe, with the Prime Minister's consent. You are the minister, I was not the minister, and therefore you know these practices more than I do. I do not imagine that the problem of several hundred thousand young people does not concern the Prime Minister, who tells every day how much he cares about Poles, citizens of the Republic of Poland. Both eighth graders and seniors are citizens of our country. The first ones don't vote yet, but all the other rights do. Therefore, I believe that the problem of their education, the training of the young generation cannot be suspended, whether there will be examinations or not; whether the competition for certificates will concern the recruitment of students and higher education or not. I will read to the senator only a part of the resolution ending: the Senate of the Republic of Poland invites the government to immediately take and immediately announce the decision to withdraw from exams or to conduct eighth grade exams and exams together with their dates, how to conduct them, as well as the rules for recruitment to secondary and higher schools. The deadline is needed at the moment when we announce whether these exams will take place. And that term is not to be understood. as a date, e.g. October 21st or September 15th. It's a record that says 30 days or 15 or 28 or 70 days after the disaster. The Minister understands exactly what I'm talking about. And I believe that this resolution will speed up government work and the government's decision that is so important for a huge group of young people, their teachers, their parents and local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u29	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Krzysztof Frost a question. I'm gonna... Get in line, Mr. Senator. Those are questions. ...ad vocem... But it's not... This is the stage. When you ask questions, you will be able to speak in the discussion. Of course we'll sign you up for the senator. Now he's asking a question that lasts no more than a minute, Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u30	I have such a question for the petitioner of this resolution. Isn't it better, not more meaningful? If you could get answers to these questions, would you simply invite Minister Piontkowski to the committee meeting? I think that Minister Piontkowski would answer a lot of these questions that you raise here today, simply, as usual in the world would answer. Was Minister Piontkowski invited to the committee meeting? In my opinion, making a Senate resolution to get answers... Well, this is a misunderstanding. That's not what the Senate's resolution is for. We have some questions, we have some doubts, then we simply invite the Minister, who is responsible for this plot. I think the Minister would probably answer the senators here as far as possible. Therefore, my question is: did you, as an applicant for this resolution, invite the Minister's committee to a meeting? Well, I guess that would make a lot of sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u31	Thank you very much. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u32	Mr. Senator, if Minister Piontkowski had been at the press conference on 10 April, at which he announced that his exams had been postponed for a further period of time. ...if the Minister had answered the questions, there would have been no need for a draft resolution. The problem is that schools and educational institutions were suspended on 12 March. March 12th. Minister 10 April does not address the vital problems of this environment, which we are talking about, but announces a shift for an indefinite period of time, without specifics, anything. Let me remind you: 11 days before the eighth grade exam, appointed by the Central Examination Board, a few more days before the first exams, which should start on 4 May. If Minister Piontkowski wanted to answer questions on 10 April, there would be no draft resolution today. Because he didn't answer, and he didn't calm down, and he put oil in the fire, in the sense of social unrest... Wouldn't that be? It wouldn't be a draft resolution. No, he was not invited because the draft resolution was designed urgently. Mr. Marshal agreed to this method of proceding, and this method of proceding is based on social needs, not the fanaberism of some senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u33	You're asking Senator Alexander Swed remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, first of all, I would like to stress that I agree with the previous speakers who have asked questions here... Hello, hello, can you hear me? Yes. I'd like to ask you exactly what you asked Senator Frost. I was just looking at the meeting of the Legislative Commission and I would like to ask, Senator, why representatives of the Ministry of National Education, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education were not invited to this meeting of the Legislative Commission so that they could also comment on this decision. That's what I'd like to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u35	Thank you very much. I understand that the answer has already been given before. Unless the senator wants to fill in...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I am the representative of the applicants. The chairman of the Legislative Commission is Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I also recalled that the rapid procedure for the process of this resolution stems not from the exceptional haste caused by what, but from the really serious situation in education. In this connection, I believe, the Senate Marshal, Prof. Tomasz Grodzki, agreed to the speedy procedure for this resolution. And as for the way you invite guests, I don't know if that's the custom. I'm in the Senate for the first term. Is it a duty to invite the Minister of Education? I think that President Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will answer you this question better than I do.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u37	Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u38	Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of special resolutions, we often apply for a position for individual resorts. In this case, the Minister's position was presented at a press conference. He said that the students would be informed of the decision three weeks in advance. So we know this position. And the procedure was, of course, fast due to the shortening of deadlines. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u39	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a little surprised by the votes of the Senators of the PiS parliamentary club attacking this resolution. Because, in fact, I agree with one of the senators who said, a horse with a row of those who can predict when this will be over. But it was so easy for you. And it is still to argue about a much more difficult, more important election decision. You want to send millions of Poles to vote and you are not afraid to put them at risk, and it is so difficult for the Minister of Education and, Minister, Government Because even the Minister's regulation requires interministerial consultations to answer a simple question. I'm saying this as someone who... Unless you've changed the rules now. You change everything in the PiS, so maybe you changed it. But the Minister's regulation also requires inter-ministerial consultations, i.e. government consultations. The draft regulation shall be subject to such consultation. So the resolution is actually addressed. Actually, it's the government. You can nod your head, it doesn't matter. It's still hard for you to answer the question of when the exams will be conducted and what kind. Say, for example. You're gonna slow down the eighth graders. Because you've already eliminated junior high, and these exams were introduced on the occasion of junior high, they weren't in the case of eighth graders before. You can do something like this. You've done all kinds of miracles, so you can do something like that. You can also make other... Mr. Senator, please proceed to the question and possibly sign up for the discussion. I'll just ask. To Senator Kochan: should secondary schools which will organise recruitments, or universities which will organise recruitments, know when and on what basis this recruitment will take place? Whether it's gonna take place after graduation or this graduation exam isn't gonna be on what rules... Will this take place on the basis of the certificate contest or the exams? Should those who will organize the recruitment process know in advance how this recruitment is to take place?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u41	Thank you very much. You're asking the senator... No, first answer, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u42	Yes, Mr. Senator, they should know. Not only teachers and schools should be prepared for this type of activity, but above all students who will continue to study at a higher level of education. Yeah, they should know.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u43	Thank you very much. I must say that the subject is probably of interest, because, as I have observed here, Senator Skurkiewicz nodded negatively and Senator Rusiecki nodded nodingly. So... More like pity. [[Joy in the Chamber]] A. All right. This isn't about causing chaos, it's about the clear answer... Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, I have before me the contents of the regulation that you have already mentioned, and it's all written here. Added §11i paragraph. 3: any activities relating to the organisation and conduct of the examinations referred to above carried out before the announcement of the communication shall remain in force. This regulation does not change the mode, it only changes the term, and the term is one of the elements of the mode, procedure, way of doing something. The question is, what exactly are you asking? What do you want from the government? Because if a decision depends on a condition, whether it is met or not, then this condition must either be fulfilled or not fulfilled. The government has made it clear in its mouth. 2 of that paragraph: message This is a communication on the dates of all examinations, i.e. 8th-grade, senior, professionally qualified, which, by the way, is the most complicated of all... It says: the message shall be announced no later than 21 days before the date of the examination. So there will be an appropriate message, 21 days before the exam date. So what are you asking? Do you really want an answer? In order to get an answer to such a simple question, it was enough to invite a representative of the Ministry of National Education. It is true that we do not have current questions and current information in the Senate, but I think that the Marshal would like to agree to such questions. Moreover, yesterday, a representative of the Ministry of National Education was here, it was possible to ask him that he was sitting on a pebble for hours, when we looked at the particular points of the program, concerning the fight against the virus. The question is, why didn't you ask him then and call him specifically to speak? Or is it really about this resolution to hit the government, as it usually does? I'll quote two words. Only shortly before the deadline, the Minister of National Education announced a shift of these exams to an undefined future. This information is definitely not sufficient. But enough information is in the regulation. The information about the next extension of the closing of schools, submitted by the Minister of National Education every two weeks, introduced chaos. So tell me, how would you pass this information along so that there's no chaos, if something is conditioned by factors that are even independent of human activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u45	Thank you very much, Senator. In addition, Minister Kopeć is a scaffold. Although born in Wielkopolska And I have to tell you that I talked to him about this resolution, but since it was a private conversation, like a fellow councilman with whom we sat on the city council bench for a few good years, I will keep this conversation to myself. Nevertheless, such a conversation took place. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. If you'll allow the marshal... I'll answer... Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u46	How? You know, the introduction of a natural disaster that would solve a lot of problems, including this one. Thank you. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u47	Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, I have this question: what would happen if the Minister of Education had given a date, e.g. 26 May So let's say, I'm shooting right now, i.e. that then there will be Matura, the circumstances of the exam would also be given in due time, young people would prepare for this, but unfortunately the situation objectively would show that there is no possibility of conducting the exam? Would it then be a resolution condemning the minister for setting a time limit by which this was impossible to carry out? I think it's the key. for this discussion and the answer to the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u49	Thank you very much, senator. Before the senator answers, let me remind you that this is not a condemnation resolution. In Anglo-Saxon parliamentarians, it is a call for action, and this is how you read this draft resolution. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u50	Thank you very much. It is precisely that the government should take care of the matter, see the gravity of the situation, and put into circulation information about the principle that it will follow. Are there gonna be exams or are they gonna be gone? If they are, what are the rules? If you're going to recruit for high school, what are the rules? And will the exams be held, or will they not? That's it. That's it. Call for action.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u51	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Chudowska a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u52	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In your reference, you mentioned social unrest in Poland for this reason. I've been following public life in the country, political and social, and I haven't noticed any social unrest. I'm gonna need a few details. Where did such anxiety take place, what did it look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u53	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u54	Senator, I have used this phrase without referring to street protests, which, by the way, cannot be organised as a result of the introduction of new rules or rules for the fight against the virus, because these rules restrict our civil rights. I imagine, and for many years I've been a teacher with which children's concerns... I'm sorry, young people, 15-year-olds, 18-, 19-year-olds expect me to announce what's going to happen to them. The fact that they pass exams is stressful. It's obvious. We remember our M.A.s, and they weren't without influence on how we felt. And now the seniors and the eighth graders are waiting for information. They haven't had a lesson since March 12th. But they were... They know they're gonna take the exams. In a relationship... I already know all that. You didn't answer the senator's question... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Well, then, Senator... Senator, let me answer that. There you go. If you don't mind, I'll finish my statement. I don't know anything other than what I think I can answer your question. These are not the issues of street protests, these are the concerns that live in individual homes where parents are worried, and they're so preoccupied today with whether to keep jobs, whether to keep their families or their businesses alive. That's what kids look at, and they're worried about whether they're gonna take the exams or not. What remote education looks like, I'm sure the senator knows perfectly well. There are children who do great with it, and there are parents who help those children who do great, and there are places where a parent is unable to meet the requirements of tutoring or tutoring and to help his child learn or there are three, four children, and one computer. Therefore, it cannot be said that e-education is capable of replacing real education. Since March 12, children have no classes, young people do not go to school. These young people know they're supposed to take exams. And the minister of education tells them I'm moving. But do I know how I'm going to be admitted to high school? How do I get into college? Do we know that? Does the senator know about this? In my opinion, these are social unrests because they concern a large group of people. This is a crowd of at least a few hundred thousand young people, not counting their parents. So because of social unrest, I don't understand just street riots. Senator, please do not say the obvious things in this House, which we all know and which we are aware of...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u55	Senator, are you asking questions? ...and use words appropriate to the situation and of proper importance. Senator Bogumiła Orzechowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u56	Mrs. Senator, I would like to ask if the discussion at the committee meeting was about comparing the current situation of the coronavirus and concerning the exams with the previous year's attempt to block exams in the event of teacher strikes? Was there such a discussion? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u57	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u58	No, I don't remember this debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u59	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u60	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I repeat the question, which was not answered enough: why was the Minister not asked for an opinion on the matter, and why was the Minister not invited to the committee meeting despite the rapid procedure? The information so far shows that neither such an attempt has been made in one case nor in another. It seems that decency requires, however, to ask the other side's opinion. However, this resolution has some pejorative sounds, instead of expressing anxiety, there is a call here. Well, I would ask for an answer to these two questions: why didn't you try an invitation and why you didn't ask for an opinion? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u61	Thank you very much. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u62	There have already been answers to similar questions, and I cannot add any new arguments to them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u63	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u64	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for you, senator of the rapporteur. Senator, please tell me if it is true that the reason and what provoked this appeal was that children and young people, their parents, teachers, local government officials, appealed to us, even accused us of intervening on their behalf, concerned about the lack of decision and the biweekly information that brings nothing to their lives, to their everyday lives, to their preparation for exams. Is it true that this is what happened, and that was the reason, not the political decision to sit down and write to the minister or the government? And second question. Is it also true that, in these appeals, young people, especially young people, wrote to us that they were addressing us, the senators, because, unfortunately, at their appeals, to their requests, they did not receive information from the Minister, nor in writing, nor in the communications from the Minister, and that is why they accepted this form of appeal and such a petition? Is that true? Please answer these two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u65	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u66	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to say that I do not see anything wrong in practicing politics in the Senate of the Republic of Poland, just as I do not see anything wrong in practicing politics in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. This is where we do our politics and grow them. If you're thinking politics, then okay, I don't like politics either. But political action is to adopt a resolution calling on the government to take rapid action to resolve the social problems that have been raised. As for the second question, Senator, yes, indeed, I will also remind you of the actions of young seniors who are claiming their rights in social forums, also in letters addressed to us and also in letters addressed to the Minister of National Education, for which we receive answers and calming young heads, and from the Minister they have not received an answer. Hence also the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u67	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur: do we know how many neighbouring countries or other European countries have decided whether or not the exams will take place? I mean that other countries are in a similar situation and I know from media reports that in a number of countries these decisions have already been made and the epidemiological data we have are sufficient to assess this. Or does the senator have that information? And a brief comment. I think the Minister of Education could set a deadline for exams, e.g. on 1 June and 3 weeks before the exams confirm it or not in its regulation. Just set a date for which and the schools, and the students would be preparing and who they'd know it was about then. If three weeks before the exam it turns out to be impossible... Since he doesn't want to speak clearly anymore... Because, as I say, these decisions have already been made in many countries. Plus, about the argument that there was no Minister at the committee meeting... Well, the Minister is also making decisions without asking the committee, without consulting, without informing the senators properly, or perhaps the Members... Mr. Senator, the question is... Well, thank you... Any more? No, no. Thank you very much. That's just my comment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u69	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u70	I said in my speech, Senator, that the international Matura has already been cancelled, we know that it will not be in 2020. I know for a fact that the Czech Republic has resigned from the exam. As to whether the Minister takes his actions without the opinion of the committee, I have no other answer except that there is a threefold division of power in Poland and that the legislative authority looks at the hands of the executive authority and there is also a judicial authority which is independent of these two.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u71	Thank you very much. The list of questions was... I'm still... Oh, and the senator... And Mr. Senator. Report for discussion, Senator, or for questioning? Question... Senator Skurkiewicz... But who was the first? Senator. Senator Margaret Kopiczko. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u72	I'd like to ask the senator. I've already spoken at the committee meeting. Did you listen closely to the Minister's statement at the conference? The Minister made it clear that he was moving the deadline and that all the students and seniors would know three weeks before the new deadline was due... I'm really surprised... I come from the teaching community, I'm Vice-President of the Science Committee, and I don't get any questions about it, nobody's worried. The environment is peaceful, both the teaching environment and parents thank the government for ensuring safety, ensuring health, because this is the most important. Today, at this time we do not know the answers to many questions and we are waiting for the situation in the country. Every day there is information from the Minister of Health about how all this is developing. So that the situation is specific. I'm really surprised you're here, and I'm surprised, senator, that you want to be a politician here with your education. I'd like you to answer if you heard the Minister's exact statement. I'm really surprised to hear that discussion since yesterday. I'm sure the Minister is preparing the relevant regulations on this matter, and everyone will know in due course about the time limits. Both students who are very important, parents as well as teachers. Thank you very much. Question... I asked the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u73	Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u74	Yes, I heard the Minister's statement. As to your surprise, Senator, I understand you're surprised.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u75	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u76	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Madam President, the only thing I agree with is that this is political action. Yes, it is. It is a political act. You're not here to offer something constructive, you're just chasing a bunny so you don't catch it... Mr. Senator, is that the voice in the discussion, or do you want to ask a question? If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal, I'll be building my own question... That's why I'm asking. One more question, because you also put yourself to the discussion: do you want to take part in the discussion? Mrs. Marshal, we're at the questioning stage right now. If you don't mind, I'll finish my thought. Okay. Well, ask me a question. Senator, no responsible government today. Not just the government of law and justice, because probably everyone else. He wouldn't make the decision straight because we don't know what's gonna happen next week, two weeks from now, a month from now. We don't know what the outbreak is going to be. Once again, I will ask the question that has been asked many times here: why did he not have the opportunity to speak at the committee meeting of the Minister of National Education? He is the one who is competent to speak on this matter and to give competent answers to the State. But you don't want to hear the opinion of the Minister of National Education. You want to create another ferment in order to inspire society and not to take measures that will encourage this situation to be least distressed, including for these young people. Mrs. Marshal, and as for the various speeches, to say the gentlest, the green island machers, I will no longer speak, because this is not the time and not the place, not the forum for this.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u77	Thank you very much. I understand that the request for discussion is valid. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u78	Mr Senator, the government, Minister Szumowski, Minister of Health, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, representatives of the party and parties with which you form the coalition, have no difficulty deciding whether the presidential elections should or should not take place, but have great difficulty announcing whether the eighth grade exams and the prom exams should take place. From the statement of these two facts to me, the opposition senator, there is one conclusion: in one case the government has an opinion, in the other case there is no opinion. The draft resolution is an attempt to get answers to the questions of the most not individual senators, but, once again, eighth graders and seniors, their parents, their teachers and local government officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u79	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u80	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, one basic thing. The term of the election is not decided by the Prime Minister and by those you mentioned, but by the Marshal of the Sejm. And that's what you should know. With all due respect, it's not the government who decides when the election is going to be. He informs the Marshal of the Sejm about this date.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u81	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski... Yet... Anything else? One sentence. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u82	You know, it seems that the Marshal of the Sejm has recently decided the date of the presidential election... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's a great way to move... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm in the courtroom. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] There you go, Senator. I gather thoughts, Mrs. Marshal, in order to try to respond in a parliamentary way to something that actually doesn't require an answer... I think I'll stop by that statement after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u83	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u84	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! The term of the elections is decided by the constitution, not by the Marshal of the Sejm. The Marshal of the Sejm is bound by the Constitution and also by the electoral code. And as for the substance, I repeat the question that I did not get the actual answer. If you don't want to answer, just say you don't want to or can't. Yesterday, while working on another item on the agenda of the Senate, but related to the virus, a qualified representative of the Ministry of National Education was present here. Why didn't any of you sign up for this resolution to ask him about it? You require that all of us, as Chambers, address this question to this Ministry. Isn't that a simpler way? Why do you multiply existences? Why was the minister's representative unable to comment on this yesterday? Because neither of you asked that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u85	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u86	I'll give you a brief answer. As far as I remember, or as far as I want to believe, the Senate's Rules of Procedure apply to me and your senator to the same degree. Yesterday's presence of the Minister or Deputy Minister of National Education was caused by his legitimacy to answer questions related to the coronavirus. Yesterday... And what's that related to? Mr. Senator, please calm down. I'm sorry. You're welcome. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yesterday... Calm down, please. Yesterday, before the debate on this subject in the Senate, a committee meeting was held at which we adopted the draft resolution. The draft resolution was adopted by a majority of the Senate Committee. Before the Senate debate, there was a committee meeting. That's it. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u87	Thank you very much. Ad vocem, Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u88	I would ask you to explain the causal link, why, if we are proceeding with a draft resolution, you cannot ask questions related to the subject matter of this resolution in the Senate Chamber. Can you explain it in any way?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u89	Of course you can, only that the subject that we are discussing in this project is a subject that is more raised, forcing the government to act. Because as far as the current action is concerned, we find the government to be slow.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u90	Thank you very much. Senator Jacek Bogucki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Do the authors of this resolution realize that we have a very dynamic and changing situation since March 4th, if I remember correctly? Did you not consider that the answer to these questions is impossible if you really want to carry out the exams this year during the period during which they should be carried out so that they can be the basis for the selection of secondary schools or for higher education? Such a decision should be taken at the latest when the epidemiological situation is better known. Didn't you consider that? What a harm, apart from the fact that a pandemic is the harm to the whole society, is the Cortipinus epidemic... What harm did the minister do to seniors and eighth-graders by delaying exams? What? Did they learn for nothing? You think so? When I was 12, I thought I was studying for nothing, too, because I wasn't asked, but seniors think a little differently. After all, this knowledge they have gained and gained will be useful to them on their M.A. no matter when it takes place. I think so as a teacher. Maybe you don't think so. What kind of solutions would be put in place in a state of disaster that would facilitate high school exams and graduations? Show me one thing. Because you said if there was a natural disaster, it wouldn't be a problem. Well, what kind of solution would he have put in? Is it really necessary to announce is it quick, announce as soon as possible, and then move these deadlines? Isn't that gonna cause a bigger mess than a three-week notice, as the senator's colleague described here, in accordance with the regulation? I am convinced that the Minister of Education has several solutions for various pandemic situations, e.g. a solution in the form of the final completion of those examinations, or a solution whereby they cancel the examinations and carry out the selection in accordance with a different mode. But there's still time for that. Isn't it better to give the pandemic time to go out so we can take it easy? I will discuss the binding of elections and Matura in the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u92	Thank you very much. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u93	Well, I do not share the senator's confidence and confidence in the fact that the Minister of National Education and the Government of Prime Minister Morawiecki have solutions, many solutions. I have doubts about whether they have, because the ones they present to us, in the opinion of the opposition, including mine, are absolutely insufficient. Therefore, the draft resolution, which does not put the Minister of Education, or Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Government, on this issue, but calls for faster action. As for the way young people learn, I have no doubt that they are preparing for both eighth grade and prom exams. It's obvious. But it would be good if the government had just calmed them down and said... It seems to me to be a perfectly reasonable solution to such a case: to set a deadline for August 1 and to shift it to 3 weeks before it. But it's not my job, it's not my job to make decisions and inform the public. The lack of this decision and the lack of this information are at the root of this resolution, nothing more.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u94	Thank you very much. Senator Zdzisław Pupa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u95	Madam President, I have such a question for the honourable lady, as well as for the authors of this resolution, because in my opinion this resolution is without object. I'd like to ask if you share my view. And here's my question: do you know when the pandemic will stop? If you know, then this resolution makes sense. Lately, actually, for a long time. I don't want to lecture you here. You behave, ladies and gentlemen, irrationally. And that's why you don't get, you can say, recognition in public space, as the polls show. After all, the Minister of Health, Mr. Szumowski, today clearly draws attention to the fact that it is a kind of dancing on a razor, the situation that we have at the moment in public space as far as coronavirus is concerned. You want to postpone the presidential election because of the pandemic, with no knowledge or grounds for the situation or development of the pandemic. It would be good for you to decide, because on the one hand, you are urging the government to act and announce the term of the exams, and on the other hand, you are trying to move the term of the presidential election. On the next hand, you take actions that are often irrational and contradictory, you can say, with the reason of the state, with the reasons of the interests of Polish citizens. Therefore, I would like to ask you if you have such a feeling that this resolution is pointless, meaningless and that it should be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u96	Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u97	No, Mr. Senator. I don't know when the pandemic will end, and I don't think this resolution is pointless.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u98	Thank you very much. Senator Dorota Czudowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u99	Thank you. Mrs. Senator, do you really think I'm gonna go colloquially and say sand in spokes to speed up the bike?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u100	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u101	I don't think this resolution's a sand-in-the-spoke resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u102	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Ożog.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u103	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, I know my question will be some kind of violation of the rules of procedure, and I'm asking you to forgive me. I don't have a question for you, Senator, because you didn't answer a lot of questions. I am sorry that you have decided to be the rapporteur for this committee's work. At someone's request, we are to make a kind of judgment of the government's actions or the actions of the competent minister. What you said... You have only said so much, and I am grateful that the Minister was not invited by the committee to the committee meeting. Mrs. Marshal, since the Senate, the High House, is to judge the Minister in the form of a resolution, I have a question for you. Was the Minister invited to the Senate meeting? Was he given a chance? And one more thing. The senator asked me to say that the Senate received a great deal of intervention from the 8th graders, from the seniors. Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to know how many there were. What's the scale? Thank you for your attention and once again, Mrs. Marshal, I apologize for some kind of violation of the rules of procedure. Forgive me and try to answer that. Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I didn't say the Senate...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u104	There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u105	Thank you very much. I didn't say that, and if I remember correctly, Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska also didn't say that they entered the Senate. To our senators' offices. Yeah. I've had at least four of these interventions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u106	I can answer the senator. Only that I don't receive Senate correspondence. Questions like that also come to me as a senator. Every senator gets correspondence, every senator gets it and evaluates it. That's it. That's why here... There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. But doesn't your marshal think that this main accused, accused, conjectured should have a chance to explain, to refer here to the charges before the adoption of a resolution of the High Senate?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u108	Mr. Senator, the debate on the special resolution is certainly not a discussion with the marshal or vice-marshal of the Senate about the procedure, because this procedure was, so to speak, carried out in committee. This resolution has already been discussed by the Senate Committee and the committee has spoken on this issue. As far as the issue of special resolutions is concerned, government representatives are not invited to the Senate meetings at which the special resolutions are adopted. This one's special. This is a special resolution. Okay, let's leave it. Senator Bogusława Orzechowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, tell me how this resolution calling for... can the disciplinary government influence the real term of the exams? Because that's what I think the purpose of this resolution would be. And will such a resolution not introduce additional anxiety among students who are still stressed about having to prepare for exams? So I am interested in how this resolution can affect the determination of a real and non-transferable date for the exam.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal... Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, I am so sorry, can I make a formal motion? Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u111	I would like to ask you to accept the request to close the list of questions and that we conclude this debate, which is being held in the face of... [[Applause]] Thank you so much for this motion. ...the situation that we are currently facing, and in connection with which this Senate meeting has been specifically convened, well, it's probably not very responsible. And the Sejm is waiting for the anti-crisis shield regulations. We should close this point, vote it out. Most will win, the minority will lose. And we're really... Let's finish the vote, the most important ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u112	Mr. Senator, thank you so much for this motion. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz is still on the list. If no one objects... Do any of you object to closing the list? If no one objects, I will take the view that the formal application has been accepted. Thank you very much. I believe the motion has been accepted. I'm closing the list. The last senator on the list, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I'm going to start by saying that Mr. Pak should take into account that the Senators of Law and Justice are asking the most questions, so this appeal is, I think, addressed to them. Now as regards the question to the Senator of the rapporteur: is the resolution aimed at determining the term of the exam, or is it aimed at making any decisions that would calm not only the students' environment but also the teachers' environment? I would like to remind you that secondary and primary schools are primarily managed by local governments, the authorities, mayors and presidents, who are also in a rather difficult situation because they do not know how to behave, how to prepare. Chaos serves no one, no government, no students, no teachers. No decision is probably the worst possible decision. And the lack of information is also the worst information for people who are preparing for these exams. And I think that's what Senator Gawłowski said, and I agree with Senator Gawłowski. That's actually... Mr. Senator, question, please. ...was also in the words of Senator Pupa. Elections Yeah, the exams aren't. Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask you a question. I will repeat the question again, I already asked it at the beginning: is the resolution aimed at determining the time limits for exams, or is it about making clear and clear decisions that are appropriate to the situation? We all know you can't predict the deadline. But if the exams were to take place e.g. In August, I don't think that would serve anyone either. So, the question to the Senator of the rapporteur is: does our resolution concern the appointment of time limits for exams, or is it a call for the government to make clear and clear decisions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u114	Thank you very much. Senator, I remind you, first, if you could, to give the answer to Senator Orzechowska, who asked before.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u115	I'll admit, it was very difficult for me to find any questions from the senator that I didn't answer anymore. Therefore, if your marshal and your senator allow me to say that I have repeatedly answered questions formulated in a similar way. As to the answer to Senator Tyszkiewicz's question: yes, indeed this resolution is aimed at making a decision by the government. It's not about deciding that it's gonna be on August 21 or 18, it's about deciding whether or not the exams are gonna take place, and if they do, in what form. The point is that this decision should be announced. I will not suggest to the government the solutions that have been put forward, it seems from your side that it is much better to make a decision and to say that on 1 June and 3 weeks before this date, knowing the pandemic state, to move by the next weeks. Or is it better to announce that we will announce this deadline three weeks before the exam date? In this regard, local governments, teachers, parents, children should know everything. Then it would be a really quieter time. Ladies and gentlemen, last sentence. Absolutely okay, Mr. Senator, I'm thinking of Mr. Wadim Tyszkiewicz. The lack of decision is the worst possible way to rule. A decision, even bad, even criticized, gives the possibility of some action to those who have to comply with that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u116	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Senator Secretary, please send a letter to Senator Ryszard Śvilski. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to the discussion via chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries, and in the case of senators participating remotely in the sitting, please send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to you. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u117	Thank you very much, Marshal. I will immediately inform you that I signed up for this debate at the very beginning when we started working on this point, so before Senator Pęk's request, without expecting that the series of questions that will appear will last for so long, and for moments it will be a debate. But I'm getting to the point. High Izbo! We are in such a situation that the second year in a row, although for various reasons, we do not have a normal school year in Polish schools. Last year, because of the teacher strike, as we know, during a similar period, also in the spring and also in the run-up to high school graduates' exams, we had to deal with school failure. This year, as we all know, we have an epidemic of coronavirus. These situations are of course completely different, that was different, and now we are dealing with an unpredictable situation, a situation that causes great anxiety, not only children and young people, young people attending schools, but also their parents. This is, for example, linked to the need, especially for younger children, to provide care for children at a time when they are to be at home, which is extremely difficult in the professional activities of parents, including under the stricter health regulations that we currently have. That is why I agree with the letter, of course I think it would be good if this were possible, to clearly define the rules of the game in this situation and to be able to identify the specific time and procedures that will apply to these 2 important challenges, these 2 stages in the process of training young people, i.e. the final exam after the completion of the elementary school and the maturity exam, the Matura. That would be the best situation. But unfortunately here the minister is in a very difficult situation, because he is unable to indicate such a time limit and cannot now give an unambiguous declaration, because the dynamics of the spread of the pandemic is unpredictable at the moment. High Izbo, therefore, understanding the intentions of the applicants, that such a resolution or such... that it would be good if we knew the rules of the game... Of course, that's right, it would be good, but the obvious question arises whether it is possible to define these rules of the game and indicate a specific deadline or even a specific way of investigating this deadline. I will also remind you that this is a matter relating to seniors in the process of recruiting for universities, which of course requires broader arrangements, with the rectors of universities, with the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, and at the moment it can be said that hundreds of thousands of Polish young people are in a position to be suspended. I repeat, the second year in a row we have this situation, although completely different were the causes of the situation from last year. Therefore, it seemed reasonable, as in other resolutions, among others. proposed by Senator Czerwiński on another matter, here I am thinking of a resolution concerning the acquisition of Polish assets, this Polish organizations in Germany in the period of the Third Reich... Here we very closely refer to the position of the government, the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. While this resolution concerns Polish-German relations, i.e. a certain area of particular importance for the state, I am talking about this as a principle, about the principle that we are asking the government for a position on this matter. And here was the motion submitted at the committee meeting, the senator mentioned that such a request was, and I regret that he did not receive the majority, because I believe that an authorised representative of the Ministry of Education, whether it be the Minister or one of the Vice-Ministers, would surely appear in such a meeting very quickly and it would be possible to hear the information, to consult it at source. From what I know, it appears that the Ministry is prepared to implement appropriate procedures, but it cannot implement these procedures for a very simple reason: simply this dynamic is unknown. And now imagine the situation when. The responsible representative of the Ministry of Education or the Government says that the exams will take place at this time and then it turns out that it is unrealistic to carry out precisely for the reasons I am talking about, so this unknown dynamic of what is happening around us. That is why I believe that this resolution, which rightly draws attention to the problem of uncertainty, will unfortunately serve to heat the atmosphere of this uncertainty, and that is why I personally will not be able to support this resolution, sharing my concern for children and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to address Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u119	There are those who believe that good deeds, good intentions should be severely punished. I would like to add that I am not in favour of such a thesis. But today, in some sense, our friend Magda Kochan has become proof that this happens from time to time. I'm talking about this because this good intention was only an appeal. Not replacing Minister Piontkowski, not pointing out what he should do, not showing specific directions of our decisions, but calling for the Minister to take the decision he considers most optimal, most appropriate. The result is that the initiators of the appeal get hurt that they're suggesting something. All they do is appeal. And now two key things. I myself was in favour of drafting a bill in which we would replace the Minister of Education, mainly because we see the inability to make decisions and leave a very important group Not only children, but also parents and teachers Without a key decision. Making this decision at the last minute, even if it's 21 days before, it's wrong. There was a lot of argument here that it was impossible to predict when this epidemic would end or ease. Of course you can't. It's wrong to ask our friend when this pandemic is over. He's not the right recipient. But I would like to say right away that it is also inappropriate to indicate a specific date for launching certain procedures related to the finality of the pandemic. However, please pay attention... We have a large document, with a large number of pages, on Coronavirus and economic operators. During this series of questions I have reviewed it and in this document there are 29 different terms. Do the authors of this bill know the finals of the pandemic, know the finals of the Cordipines? No. But they say dates. They provide specific periods of a month, two weeks, three months for the Polish Hunting Union and various institutions. Do they know the finale of the pandemic? No. Are they making a decision? Yes. In my opinion, the most appropriate thing today is, in short, to withdraw from the eight-grade exam. That was my intention, too, to prepare a specific legislative proposal. She won the idea to leave the Minister a way to make his own decision. Make it quick. I believe that today children, parents, teachers, as well as academics should know where they stand. We realize that this pandemic will not end in a few days, that it will also not have its positive finale in a few weeks. Maybe in a month, maybe two or three months. But even more so, this decision is easy to make today. And if we are doing something at the moment, then we appeal to the Minister of National Education to make this decision, either one or another, but to make, in the end, this decision. So that everyone knows where they stand so that everyone can also prepare for the next steps resulting from this decision. It must be remembered that if we give up the eight-grade exam, the high school competition will take place according to certain rules that are already in part fixed, but which will have to be completed. We know about the Olympic scores, we know about the scores associated with various activities, we know about special schools, sports schools, the necessary tests, exams, etc., etc. It takes time for that. It takes time for that. And we, by our appeal, are trying to encourage the minister to make a decision and give himself time as well. But also to teachers, parents, students, to prepare for a scenario that is appropriate to the current situation, i.e. the pandemic situation. If today, during this vote, we can make decisions about many, many institutions, indicating the monthly, 2-week, 3-month, half-yearly terms, then we can also do so with regard to children. And children, in my opinion, in this situation, with their stress, burdens etc., etc. They are a key element, part of our community, our nation. And the last two things. From my point of view, and I also observe what is happening in neighbouring countries, where the pandemic is much bigger and solutions are in some sense more advanced... We should just use them. We already know that international exams are cancelled as a result of various external circumstances. We also know that smaller countries, such as the Czech Republic, and huge, large countries, such as France, have even cancelled their exams. This is an extremely important signal for universities who will want to adapt to this decision, adapt to this decision in a specific way, for which they also need time. If we want to be serious, we should expect from the Minister of Education an immediate solution to this problem, not putting it off for 21 days, because this will bring together all the further consequences of the high school and the high school as well, in short, recruitment. Once again, I stress: we are dealing only with an appeal. An appeal, which is addressed to the government, to make decisions. In this case, it concerns children. But the idea is to make decisions before, not after, in advance, minimizing costs and ensuring the comfort of those who are subject to constitutional responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u121	Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to start with... I don't know what I'm gonna do with that mask... I'd like to talk about Katynia. I would like to thank the two gentlemen from the PiS who taught us lessons, what is Katyn and who fought with whom, as if we didn't know it. Anyone could have spoken on this subject, but we respect the time. I don't understand some people in the Senate who come and come just to speak. That's not what they taught me in the local government: it's concrete. That is why I thank the absent Senator Pęk for the first time he closed the list of speakers, I already wanted to do it, but I didn't know if I could do it in the Senate or not. That's it. Here's another thing. Mrs. Marshal, I have a voice in the discussion, I wanted to take part in the part where the questions were asked, but I realized that if I didn't have a question, I couldn't speak. And here it is allowed, when there is a stage of questioning, a 2-, 3-, 4-minute discussion. Can you stand it? I'll be going out and treating you like crazy soon. It's a situation like this. Discipline the senators to ask a question when they have to ask a question. This was the case when Senator Kleina was on the subject of voting on the amendments, and the question was: yes or no, briefly. And now I will refer to this resolution, to an appeal, just like Senator Zdrojewski. Very nice, Bogdan, you said. Congratulations to you and thank you. For 16 years, I was head of upper secondary school, I had 1,400 students, and how many parents... Over the 16 years, I've released a dozen thousand graduates. I am a man of education and self-government. I don't want to rush anybody, teach anybody, but I'm just going to tell you the truth about what's going on today. This is really a summons... It doesn't matter to me if it's the Minister of National Education, because he's in a row under the Prime Minister, and he's pointing out here that the Minister is not a government, that the government is not a minister... It's one whole, actually it's Novgorod. After all, there is already news that the Polish government and other governments will pass up certain deadlines to start the economy, which I am happy about. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. But there is also information that there will be extended days at school. Well, exams are coming up, Senator. Right? My voice is not a political voice, believe me, these are my observations, the conclusions of my assessment as a teacher, after talking to my parents, students, with the local community, with teachers, and with the rectors of the university, who also have concerns about what it will be. But I'd also like to say... Do the exams have to be this year? That's the question. Someone asked me that. Do exams have to take place e.g. 8th graders? No, 'cause then you can do that job. Do you, ladies and gentlemen, know how kids learn? I have a granddaughter. She goes to third grade. I know how it goes. There's a lot of injustice. Almost everyone's betting fives, which is what the principals are reporting to me about. That's one thing. And secondly, how many kids don't have access to this teaching method. Next case. Time is very urgent. Believe me, there are nerves, stress, and a lot of uncertainty. Next: Science and preparation for the exam at the time of Cortipinus are absolutely different from what has been since World War II so far. I know how long a senior prepares, how long he works with teachers, in groups, in after-school classes, to get ready for this graduation. They won't be so prepared. Whether it's May 25th or August 3rd, they won't be so prepared. And I'm not talking about eighth graders who approach it the way they do. They're convinced that these exams aren't gonna happen. There was also a question here for Senator Magda Kochan: how many did you report? I can say 100,000. Who's gonna prove to me if it was $50,000 or $100,000? They report to me and talk to me. Believe me, I didn't know this resolution was gonna come to this meeting, but by driving here 600 km by car, I had this knowledge that something had to be done, some information to let go or to appeal to the government. I'm not talking about the Minister, because he wouldn't decide it himself, but something needs to be done to deal with the stress of parents, students, teachers and self-government. As I said, the preparations of eighth graders and seniors at the time of Cortipinus are absolutely not what they should be. And someone here said they're studying and they should finish with the exam. Well, that's why they're in the education bill for exams, isn't it? But the way someone learned two years ago, six months ago, and today, will be later in upper secondary school and college. If he's done a good job and he's still trying, he's gonna end up in a good college or a good upper secondary school. Here a lot depends on the student and the parent, and the teacher too. Do you guys know what kind of teachers they're giving at the moment a set of papers for third-grade kids? My wife and I have a big problem with how to help my granddaughter, because they're gonna take something from Facebook, from the Internet, throw up some password and say, "Do it, kids." And there's some help in school after all. One helps the other, the teacher helps, there's a whole different atmosphere. And now, in this atmosphere, I don't see this exam, at least for eighth graders. As for graduating, you have to remember. The fact that universities, college senates, are also worried about how this job is gonna be. I was a school principal for 16 years, and at that time I was already 60% involved in promoting the school to attract the best students. And it all collapsed. And it's not Morawiecki's fault, it's not the government's fault, it's not the minister's fault, it's not us, the Senate. It's the disease that knocked us down, and it's really hard. And on my way here, I knew one more thing. Parents, local governments, students say, Mr. Senator, take the exams. They expect the Senate to take care of it, and here some great teachings are being taught. The teachers themselves do it, one another wants to teach! I'm not gonna let that happen. I suspect I'll use the possibility of closing the list of speakers more often. Well, today I have a 600-kilometer home ahead of me and I'd like to finish as soon as possible. Thank you very much and I'm leaving.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. There's only one thing I can say. I really believe that in a situation like this, when a meeting is held in mixed, hybrid mode, and even today, for the first time, the senators are wearing masks. Some people find it difficult to fit in 1 minute, so I allow longer questions on both sides. Sometimes it's hard for someone to formulate a question, but as the senator himself knows, I don't allow abuse. You're too good. Maybe. Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I no longer wish to repeat what Senator Zdrojewski mentioned in his statement, although I would like to refer to the same dates set out in the Act. But what I'm trying to say is clearly... I spoke with Minister Kopc yesterday for a long time about these solutions. How do you use the word "nothing"? Well, I want to say that not only are you Marshal Grodzki, but I also talked about dates and dates. The Minister told me more or less. I do not treat this conversation only in private terms, because I asked for very specific solutions That they are prepared for different options, the government has an analysis that they are after discussions with KRASzP. To my question, whether an option without exams is an option, he replied that it is an option, but he does not decide when a decision is to be made in the ministry. He will follow the order of his boss, the constitutional minister, the Prime Minister. I understand him, he's the Undersecretary of State, he can analytically be prepared as a mercenary to apply different variants, different solutions. But high schools or universities must be prepared for a variant without exams, they must. They need time for that. If the high school hears in August that they're gonna do a job without exams, then, excuse me, in what mode, when and how are they gonna do it? How are they gonna do that? How are universities supposed to do that? I'll tell you more. I'm totally conscious of the election. The government will wait until after the election to give time and solutions for the exams. We all know how this coronavirus behaves in different countries of the world, what happened in China, where it started, how they fight it, how time is needed for different activities. A decision on this matter can be made today. For political reasons, and not for any other reason, the Minister of Education of this decision today does not want to make, just because.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u124	Is the senator finished? Yes. Thank you very much. Senator Jacek Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, you already have phobias, you already have phobias. The proverbs are the wisdom of the nations. Maybe the future seniors, including the eighth graders, could use two: their peasants and their women; with good intentions this is hell paved. I'm terrified to hear it. I'm the first term here in the Senate. This hypocrisy, the way you treat a student. I was a teacher, I was an old man, I was a groom, I ran for years at school. I grew up in a family of teachers and farmers because my dad was a farmer and my mom was a teacher. Somehow I haven't heard from this side of the room that such a resolution was taken a year ago in front of the P.E.P., so that someone would ask when the strike would end and when he would allow himself to prepare for the exams and exams of the students. Somehow I didn't hear that concern from this side of the room. The senator wasn't here at the time, but some of them have been here for a few years... And somehow that concern wasn't heard. On the part of local government officials who are here for the first term, I didn't hear that concern at the time either. The answer to your question is very simple. If the Minister would give in and I would advise him not to give in to these suggestions of yours. This should take one decision: there will be neither high school nor exams, because this is the epidemiological situation today. If someone made a decision in this epidemiological situation on other matters... She's taking it here and now, not knowing what's gonna happen tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Did I run high school like this? They really need to know what mode they're going to take now that these parties have been held, so to speak, during the normal school year in June. July? Do higher education institutions need to know now that these parties were held during the summer holidays during the normal academic year? We're halfway through, well, mid-April. This is hypocrisy and an attempt to instigate youth, an attempt to use it politically. Besides, the senator herself said it because she said they already have electoral rights, seniors already have electoral rights. If we were hypocrites like you, we would have put them up, Minister Piontkowski would have put up sixs of all subjects, passed all exams, and then they would have been voters of Law and Justice. Well, you can't treat a student like that. This is not the way to treat students, because in many cases they really are smarter than our opposition. Sure, sure... And this shows this hypocrisy, this is what shows how you treat them as future voters that you want in this way, this pseudo-anxiety, this fake concern, this hypocrisy, encourage you to vote for your candidate or your candidate... well, I don't know who. They were not invited to the meeting of the Minister's committee. And yet, beyond the law, beyond the rules, there are still parliamentary customs. I've been in Parliament for a dozen years, and I don't remember the situation that when the subject Even if it is a draft resolution It concerns a specific resort and is not invited when additional information can be obtained at the meeting from the representative of the resort. What, the phones stopped working, the e-mails stopped working in the Senate? Fortunately, not yet. It wasn't here. I'd rather invite him, there wasn't the wish to invite him, there was simply no desire to discuss, it was merely to throw in a political theme, just a political one, but in that wrong sense concerning the word But it was a machiavellian understanding. That was your understanding of politics, your understanding of this draft resolution, that's the point of it. I asked you what kind of harm it is to delay exams. It's hurting, but it's really hurting the coronavirus and the epidemic, and that's all the consequences. God knows for today whether the exams will be or not. God knows, because we don't know if next month... I am an optimist, and I believe that since so many diseases that haunted the world, they ceased spontaneously because of the favor of heaven, or maybe the hands of God, but they expired. That and maybe this one will expire in a month. Why don't you take those exams then? Why complicate the college admission system so that last year's senior... How do you want to compare last year's senior who wants to re-start higher education with this year's senior, how are they supposed to compete for a place when it's on the basis of a certification contest? How do you compare them? How can we compare things that are incomparable? D.A.'s rescinding and rescinding exams will be bad. Perhaps necessary, but also the worst solution, because even then this problem I was talking about cannot be resolved in a fair way. And the M.A.'s are already comparable. Although at the beginning it was that in one year the average of math was 70%. , and in the second year 40% So they weren't comparable. I was a math teacher, so I know what I'm saying. It was my first job. But now, in this system, it's quite comparable. If we disrupt it once, as I say, this year's college recruitment for last year's and this year's senior will be conducted on a completely different basis. The opposition rep himself here said that now they're all A's, so... I don't remember if the seniors have already issued a certificate or not. After all, they, before graduation, finish their school year early, so maybe they already have their grades... A month before the end of the school year, the grades are being made, as I remember, I don't think anything has changed here, so they probably already have the grades. But perhaps these assessments do not fully reflect their knowledge. They don't reflect it because last year, with your support, the NSA organized a strike, and this year we were affected by a global epidemic. Is it okay to approach your students in this way? Is it also possible to approach the government the way the senator presented it? She said: well, we don't ask the minister, because he doesn't ask us either. Oh, my God! I was the old man and the decisions that were in my power, and I didn't agree with the council. Do you want the Prime Minister and the Minister to agree every decision with the Senate and the Sejm? Is that how we're supposed to manage the state? It's impossible. The other way around, yeah. We have the right to ask, or even to question, and in the Seym, and in the Senate every representative of the government, but it must be done before the resolution is taken, not after it has been adopted. This is a reprehensible mistake, a deliberate error, an intentional error, which is why with full awareness of the students' problems I will be... I'm leaning over them the same way. My kids have already finished school, my youngest daughter is just studying, but I'm waiting for my grandchildren, so I guess my school period is gonna come back to me. And with full seriousness I lean on it, because the first job always leaves the most trace in the man. But you can't do it that way. You can't treat this like you've treated primary school students, high school students. And you want to use them for your own political mess.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u126	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Marek Borowski. This is the last vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u127	You've assigned us an awful lot of machiavellism here, Senator. I think... That's not the problem. We are dealing with an authentic problem, which, of course, is caused by objective factors, but which so far is not solved. It is simply that part of the Senate has the right to propose specific actions or solutions. I am here, continuing as if the voice of Senator Zdrojewski, I would like to say that we were both simply working on a specific bill, on a specific law which simply said that the eighth grade exam should not take place. He won the club's view that we shouldn't replace the government, impose some solutions here, etc., etc. However, this discussion shows that this had to be done, because this resolution is adopted as a terrible interference in government activities, considered illogical, inconsistent, etc., etc. Using the fact that we are talking about this, I want to say that I understand this resolution in this way: either the Minister today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow will say that the eighth grade exams will not be, or he will say that they will not know what they will be, say, in July, August, September, it is difficult to say when, but they will be. Then these students will know that they still have to learn for the exam. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sir, you know perfectly well that if there's an exam, we learn more. I don't know about you, but I usually studied the night before the exam. As I was told, the exam will be next week, I didn't study until next week. And when I was told there wasn't gonna be an exam, I thought I could do enough. What's our current situation? Almost a month and a half of school is closed. And they're gonna go on and on, you know perfectly well that these schools are just not gonna open. Today we hear that within the framework of the so-called. defrosting the economy, the various prohibitions will gradually be reduced, eliminated. But when it comes to schools, it's not because it's too big a gathering of people, so you can't count on that ban being lifted. If he's not put up with it now, there's no point in putting up with him at all. So, as of mid-March... It's March, April... I'm skipping seniors right now. For March, April, May and a joke of June, so for three months there is basically no science. But note: it's not quite gone because there are schools that have mastered this system of digital, virtual and they better or worse, but they conducted these classes and students somehow worked through the material. But other than that, there are schools. And that's most of the schools. Which were absolutely not prepared for this. What they were doing was a sham, and some of them didn't even do it. And finally there are the students. Studies show that 15% The families don't have a computer. And these are usually poor families. These unprepared for this school are usually in smaller centres, so Let's get this straight. They are in a more difficult situation. At this point, when we do the eighth grade exam, we immediately put some of the children in a more difficult situation. Children who had more difficult access to education, very often from poorer families. That is why it is obvious to me that this decision should be made by now. If the Minister firmly considers that he does not, say that it will be different, but keeping people in such uncertainty is simply unnecessary, it is completely unnecessary. That's what brings... maybe not social unrest, as it was mentioned, but rather social anxiety. Oh, that's how I would put it in a single number. Well, all I can say is that I am calling on the Minister to make such a decisive decision right now, to close this issue and to determine how the recruitment will be carried out. In this bill, which we did not finally file, we talked about what elements should be there, but it is the minister who can define in the regulation. That's his authority, and that would be completely sufficient. And if he thinks it's gonna be different, then, of course, let him say it's gonna be different. I understand that resolution anyway. And the science for the future comes from that to be, so to speak, more determined. Well, as man appeals to the government, it turns out that he has some bad, makiavellian intentions and in fact wants to lead to some dramatic, terrible consequences. And in the end, I will turn to Senator Bogucki again, because the senator here has been a couple of times like teacher strikes in such a negative context. Right? Well, those teachers were on strike there, and there was no reaction here, etcetera. Mr. Senator, I don't know about you. Well, you're a teacher with a long internship. But we supported these strikes, i.e. We supported the idea they had. This profession has been made by the government that you support, dramatically paraped. Increases that have been given fragmentedly Once a year, then after six months, etc. It has not yet allowed to make up for the distance between average teacher wages and average national wages. And today, after the minimum wage increases, it turns out that the teacher, the young teacher who comes to school, works simply for the minimum wage. That's it. So I would suggest not to appeal to strikes, because this is a dark card in the history of the rule of law and justice. So that I appeal: Minister Piontkowski, decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u128	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform the senators that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could join... I'm still... The discussion is closed. Yeah, it's closed. I volunteered, Mrs. Marshal, as part of... No, no... My name was mentioned, so I have the right to refer to it. But, Mr. Senator, with all due respect, the names of the other senators are very often mentioned in the speeches, which doesn't make every senator speak. Mr. Secretary didn't see you come forward, and the discussion was closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. I declare half an hour off until 3:20 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 50 to 15 minutes 23]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u129	Dear Senators... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The date and order of the next meeting will be communicated to you by electronic means. At the same time, I would like to inform you that yesterday the Seniors Convention gave an opinion on a change in the agenda of the Senate meetings in May this year. The Senate meeting scheduled for 13 and 14 May was postponed to 5 and 6 May. But, I suppose, there will probably be an additional Senate meeting in April, depending on the Parliament's work. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on specific arrangements to support the implementation of operational programmes in connection with the occurrence of COVID-19 in 2020. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Local Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 98 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. I'm asking the senators who vote remotely to turn on the cameras, because some of them don't have those cameras on. [[Talking in the O.R.]] At the same time, I would like to remind you that the remote vote consists of a double push, after the decision has been made, of the "Submit" key, namely first in the upper right corner, and then when the confirmation window pops up. And this second push sends us the result of your vote. So first, the decision, i.e. for, against, holding back Then Submit and then the second Submit. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 93 for, 2 against, and 1 senator abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on specific arrangements supporting the implementation of operational programmes in connection with the presentation of COVID-19 in 2020. We are returning to the second agenda: the law on specific support instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Health, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 101 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the joint committees, I present my position on voting on the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. The High Senate is pleased to accept the proposals set out in point II, amendments with numbers: 1 and 12 and 14 and 17, 19 and 25, 27 and 29, 31 and 33 and 49, 51 and 53, 56 and 60, 62, 63, 65 and 73, 75, 76, 80, 82, 84, 87, 88, 90, 91, 93, 95 and 107, 109 and 113, 115. In addition, committees shall inform that on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Senator Ryszard Bober changed the contents of his proposal. This is point II, amendment 88 in the table of proposals. In addition, on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 7 The Senate Rules of Procedure withdrew their proposals: Senator Ryszard Bober, Amendments 83 and 85 in the table of proposals; Senator Adam Szejnfeld, Amendment 86 in the table of proposals. Thank you very much. At the same time, I ask you to vote jointly on amendments of an editorial and ordering nature. These will be the following amendments: Nos 3, 5, 6, 7, 16, 22, 23, 24, 47, 52, 65, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 99, 103, 104 and 109. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u131	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I don't see any calls. I would like to inform you that the conclusions were made during the discussion by the Skurkiewicz, Małecka-Libera, Szejnfeld, Borowski, Światkowski, Gawłowski, Pęk, Martynowski, Zdrojewski, Dunin, Morawska-Stanecka, Necessary, Józef Zając, Kochan, Staroń, Kwiatkowski, Jazłowiecka, Kleina, Bober, Tyszkiewicz, Chróścikowski. The rapporteur of the Health Committee was Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to exercise my right to speak. I was read as one of the... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u132	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I would very much like to appeal to your senators to support, first of all, Amendment 26 of the table, which was not supported at the committee meeting. In fact, this is a key amendment, it contains all the operational instruments that are necessary to activate the financial shield, those 100 billion PLN that are to be sent to entrepreneurs. There are all the guarantees of the Treasury, the bonds, the whole instrumentarium that is necessary. Without this amendment, we are unable to activate the financial shield and the Sejm would have to renew all this legislation. It would take the next few weeks to launch this project. I would also like to ask you, and this has been the subject of such clueless arrangements, to support Amendment 114. She's dealing with a certain range of bankruptcy cases. It is beneficial for the entities which are the subject of this procedure, it ensures equal treatment of those entities and makes it possible to benefit from the benefits of this law to a wider group of entities subject to insolvency proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Skurkiewicz, then Senator Klein, then Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like, of course, if it is possible, to withdraw the proposal for a law without amendments because there are a number of solutions that absolutely meet the expectations of entrepreneurs. So I withdraw this motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u135	Thank you very much. This proposal may still be withdrawn before the vote begins. Now Senator Klein, then Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please support the amendments I tabled, including those mentioned by Senator Pęk, i.e. Amendments 26 and 114. We consider them important and we need them to support them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u137	Thank you very much. I have the impression that your requests and appeals will be heard. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u138	I resign, in connection with Senator Skurkiewicz's statement, who quite hastily filed a motion to adopt the bill without amendment, but has already withdrawn it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u139	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that, in addition to Senator Skurkiewicz, who has done so at the moment, the following applicants have withdrawn their conclusions: Mr Ryszard Bober, points II 83 and 85 in print No 101 Z, and Mr Adam Szejnfeld, point II 86 in print No 101 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? I don't see any volunteers. I'd like to ask you two more things. Since Senator Kleina made a motion to speed up the vote, do you accept the fact that the amendments of an editorial and ordering nature, from No. 3 to No. 109... This is a few dozen amendments: No. 3, 5, 6, 7, 16, 22, 23, 24, 47, 52, 65, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 99, 103, 104, 109... Can we vote them out in the block? If I don't hear any objection, I'll take that as a yes. I can't hear you. If you authorize me, I will not read the contents of all the amendments, but their numbers. Thank you very much. So we proceed with the vote. The vote on Senator Skurkiewicz's motion... No, no... ...it's not like it's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sit down, relax... It's pretty gorgeous. We therefore proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 is more specific. Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. I'm reporting that my apparatus didn't work at all. We're gonna fix this. I'll get the card. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 98 Senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 5]] Did... Resuming the vote for technical reasons is possible... No, no... ...but if the Senator, your Marshal, doesn't support this motion, we'll consider the outcome to be settled. Thank you very much. Amendment 2 introduces a principle whereby, in the absence of a request for support, the proposal is deemed to have been granted within a period of time. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely... Probably you need to press the submit for a second time. Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. Did it work, Mrs. Marshal? [[Talking in the O.R.]] The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 6]] Impossible. The result of the roll call vote is to be obtained. I don't think that's possible. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And now I would like a moment's attention, because Amendment 3 is the first of these editorial types and this vote will include Amendments 3, 5, 6, 7, 16, 22, 23, 24, 47, 52, 65, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 99, 103, 104, 109. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] I think this is a historic moment. Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 53 votes against, 47 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Amendments 8 and 10 aim to exempt entrepreneurs affected by the epidemic from the obligation to pay advances on income tax. They should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 56 votes for, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Amendments 9 and 11 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 53 votes for, 4 against, 43 abstentions. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 12. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 53 votes against, 47 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted against, 97 against, 3 against. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 14. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 for, 47 against. [[Voting No 13]] Amendments 15 and 113. They should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 17. Its adoption precludes voting on Amendment 18. Amendment 17 is going to eliminate... Wasn't she excluded? No, no... It's okay. Seventeen o'clock now. Its adoption rules out voting on the 18th. Yeah, I get it, okay. I want to clarify that, so I'll read it. Amendment 17 aims to eliminate the amendments to the Environmental Law, which in particular exclude during the epidemic the conduct of measurements of installations emitting electromagnetic fields in dwellings and commercial premises, and facilitate the start of operation of equipment such as antenna masts, stations and power lines. The amendment also eliminates changes in the financing of environmental protection and water management. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 47 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] The amendment was accepted and we are not voting on Amendment 18. Amendment 19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 99 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 20. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 21. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely probably has to press.Submit for the second time. Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 25. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 26. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 27 is editorial, but it's not in the right voting block, so we have to vote on it now. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 28. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes 47 against. [[Voting No 22]] Amendment 29. Its adoption will rule out the vote on Amendment 30. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against. [[Voting No 23]] We are therefore not voting on Amendment 30; it is excluded. Note: Amendment 31 will rule out voting on Amendment 32. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 32 is therefore excluded. Amendment 33. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 34. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 Senators voted, 51 for, 47 against. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 35. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes 47 against. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 36. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 37. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 38. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 Senators voted, 51 for, 47 against. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 39. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 40. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 41. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 42. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 46 against. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 43. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 44. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 45. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 46. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 99 in favour. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 48. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 49. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 50. Attention... Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 46 for, 53 against. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 51. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 53 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Note: Amendment 53 will rule out voting on Amendment 54. Amendment 53. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 98 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 55. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 46 for, 53 against. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 56. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the Senators voted remotely probably pressed Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted against, 97 against, 1 against. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 57. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 99 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 58. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes 47 against. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 59. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 59 against, 40 against. [[Voting No 48]] Note: Amendment 60 excludes voting on Amendment 61. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes 47 against. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 62. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely... Please check that you don't need to press Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 63. Note: its adoption excludes voting on Amendment 64. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 66. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 67. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 0 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 53]] Further amendments have already been voted on. Note: Amendment 73 excludes voting on Amendment 74. We are voting on Amendment 73. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 54]] Amendment 75. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 55]] Amendment 75... Sorry, she was already there, number 75 was already there. Attention, adoption of the amendment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 75 was voted out? Yes. Yes. Okay, thank you very much. Adoption of Amendment 76 excludes voting on Amendments 77, 78 and 79. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 100 senators voted, 54 for, 46 against. [[Voting No 56]] Note: Amendment 80 excludes voting on Amendment 81. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 against, 48 against. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 82. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 against, 48 against. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 83 is an amendment withdrawn. Amendments 84 and 112 will be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 59]] Amendments 85 and 86 are withdrawn. Amendment 87. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 52 votes for, 48 against. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 88. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 89. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 90. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 98 for, 2 against. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 91. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 92. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 49 for, 50 against. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 93. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 55 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 94 is not voted on because there was a positive vote on Amendments 8 and 10. Amendment 95. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes 47 against. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 96. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 97. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 98. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 51 against, 48 against. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 100. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 71]] Amendment 101. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 53 votes 47 against. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 102. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 105. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 106. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 107. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 54 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 108. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted against, 5 against, 94 against. [[Voting No 77]] Amendment 110. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 100 senators, 99 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 78]] Amendment 111. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 79]] Let me remind you that Amendment 112 has already been voted in conjunction with Amendment 84, and Amendment 113, including Amendment 15. Amendment 114. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 80]] Amendment 115, last one. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] That was the last amendment, ladies and gentlemen. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 100 senators, 98 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 82]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on Specific Support Instruments in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. We return to the examination of the third agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution commemorating the victim of Katyn's Crime on the 80th anniversary of it. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No. 89 S. In order to complete the discussion, I inform you that I have decided to send the text of the resolution to the Senate, which cooperate with us in the cooperation of the chambers of higher parliaments. We are voting on a resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 100 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 83]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution commemorating the victims of Katyn's Crime on the 80th anniversary of its execution. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of the fourth agenda item: the second reading of the draft resolution calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to announce the final decision on eighth grade exams and prom exams in the 2019/2020 school year. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print no. 102 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution calling on the Polish Government to immediately announce a final decision on eighth grade exams and prom exams in the 2019/2020 school year. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes against, 48 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 84]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution calling on the Government of the Republic of Poland to immediately announce a final decision on eighth grade exams and prom exams in the 2019/2020 school year. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the agenda for the ninth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. If you are participating in the meeting remotely, please report via the chat in the application. The statements, I remind you, can't last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. I would remind you that the Marshal will refuse to accept unspoken statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible in the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. I would like to remind you that their statements to the minutes were made by pleno titulo senators: Aleksander Szwed, Kazimierz Kleina, Robert Dowhan, 2 Mariusz Gromko, 2 Benjamin Godyla, Bogdan Borusewicz, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Jan Maria Jackowski, 3 Adam Szejnfeld. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u140	I didn't make it in this mode before. I would just like to point out to the minutes that I have taken the first vote as technical and that, of course, I am in favour of support for the use of European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-04-16-senat-09-2.u141	Thank you very much. With your presence, I would like to thank all those who voted in the halls who voted remotely. Thank you to all the IT and support staff, because we have a well-established feeling that we did all this well and quickly. The time delay in the normal voting procedure was minimal, if any. I am proud that as senators, as an institution, as Senate, we were able to take such an efficient form of hybrid sitting. It was the first time, so there were different and big concerns, including this morning. The providence was watching over us, and everything was extremely successful. Thank you again for your participation. The Senate is adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 27]]
