ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. I open the session of the seventh Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] In a moment, I'm gonna ask for a literally 10-minute break so that the administrative staff can prepare all the necessary materials. But if you don't mind, I'm going to use this time to inform you about what happened at the Senior Convention and at the time we moved the beginning of the session. Well, one of the members of the Senate is now subject to... We're waiting for a result on whether or not she's infected with the corona virus. If we don't, we'll proceed normally, and if it turns out that we do, then everyone will. we are to be subjected to the procedure described in the sanitary and epidemiological arrangements, namely quarantine with a double test for the presence of coritos. Those who have negative results will be able to go home; those who have added results, but without symptoms, will be quarantined; those who will have added results and symptoms And these, as you know, are difficult to distinguish from flu symptoms. They're going to have to contact a doctor, an infectious ward, although they're not necessarily going to have to be hospitalized because it doesn't work with a vending machine. I hope so. In view of the health of the person affected and who has improved That this result will be negative and that we will normally be able to proceed. Without, of course, restricting the freedom of expression of ladies and senators, I hope that by Friday, tomorrow afternoon, we will conclude the process of discussing individual laws, focusing above all on the revision of the specialty, which is intended to improve the fight against the coronavirus, because this task is definitely a priority and the most important one at the moment. As I declared at the press conference, the Senate will fully engage, with its intellectual forces, with its power and significance, in the fight against the coronavirus, because this is the task that stands before us all, from politicians to medics. The extent to which we will meet him will determine how this epidemic will be controlled, slowed down, and then extinguished. I hope that the Senate will play a positive role in this work. I've already received the materials. You're reporting to me that we can start without declaring a break. The secretaries have already taken their seats. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the fourth Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. The draft agenda has already been placed on senator benches. This proposal takes into account the proposals for amendments discussed at the Seniors' Convention meeting, which are highlighted in italics. The draft agenda, which was sent to you by electronic means, contained a point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on the National Court Register and certain other laws. In view of the failure of the Senate committees to prepare their reports on the matter, this item was not included in the draft agenda for approval by the Senate. I propose that the first, second, sixth, seventh and ninth items of the draft agenda be examined on the senator's benches, even though the committee's reports on these items have been submitted at a later date than those set out in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose that items 4 be deleted from the agenda, i.e. information for the Polish Parliament and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2019 (the Presidency of Finland in the Council of the European Union) and its consideration at the next meeting, which is agreed with Minister Szymanski; the second, i.e. Second reading of draft resolutions on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure, No 48 and 72. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices This was the fifth item on the agenda so far. If I don't hear any objection, I'll say... I propose that it be considered as item three of the agenda, and this has so far been item five of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose supplementing the agenda with points: second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of the Smolensk disaster in the decade of this tragedy and consider it as item 8 of the agenda; changes in the membership of the Senate committees and consider it as the item on the last agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. There's no objection. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? Mr. Marshal, me. Mr. Senator Bang.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a fundamental point on this agenda and this week's agenda. The order of the Marshals of the Sejm has been in force for a week, which you, as Marshal of the Senate, have signed. I am stunned to see how it has been implemented in the Senate for a week. Some senators, including e.g. I, in order to meet the design of the committee's agenda this week, have been in the Senate since Monday. Tuesday. These deliberations are being dragged out. The meetings are open, guests from the outside are invited to the Senate. He was stopped at the last minute... Mr. Senator, this doesn't concern the agenda. Mr. Marshal, things are serious. I'm about to move on to a specific agenda... But it's not on the agenda, Senator. This is related to the agenda, because committee meetings are part of the Senate meeting. 100 guests were invited to the Senate conference. You're putting the Marshal, the Senate, in particular, at risk of specific health and medical consequences. I think there's a lack of concern here, a problem with decision-making. In addition, I believe, Mr Marshal, that we should hold this sitting, whose opening has been postponed, for not quite clear reasons for us, by 4 hours, so that it will be completed as soon as possible, preferably today. I do not understand why the sitting is also postponed to tomorrow, the vote is pre-arranged for the afternoon, so the next few hours... Mr. Marshal, is this okay? ...a few dozen hours... But of course it concerns the order, Mr. Marshal. ...the next few dozen hours we'll all be exposed to an infection here... What's the order? Besides, Mr. Marshal, I think your information about a person being examined is very laconic. I'd like to know exactly what kind of person he is, what function he's in, and under what circumstances he's exposed to the virus. This may be another reason for how the Senate is managed during this term of office and in this particular state of fact. I simply express my concern that such a way of proceding is not in conflict at this point primarily with the entire epidemiological situation in the country and with this order that I mentioned earlier, and which Mr. Marshal also signed. Therefore, in conclusion, I ask the marshal to reconsider this agenda in such a way that we can conclude today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u3	I accept the senator's attention. With this in mind, it is necessary to proceed smoothly and quickly, I agree in particular. However, if the senator imagines that the Senate of the Republic will interrupt his work because in the country we are at risk of the outbreak of coronavirus... of which I am of exactly the opposite opinion. The Senate's constitutional task is to make every effort to fight this epidemic as effectively as possible. The presence of... [[Applause]] It's not mandatory to be in this room, Senator. If you're worried, you can miss this meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are there other votes on the agenda? Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to propose that, after the first point, including the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Lech Bądkowski, an adjournment of half an hour in order to hold a meeting of the Legislative and Legislative Committee, and to put on the agenda a second reading of the draft resolution, well, such a summary...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u5	Thank you very much. I understand you're suggesting an adjournment after the first point. This is written in the proceding description. Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u6	Mr. Marshal, as a representative of the applicants, I would like to consider whether this point on the Smolensk tragedy, because the committee's proceedings indicate that this point will not be considered for a long time. Do not consider as point two. Then in the voting block on draft resolutions we could immediately vote on these two projects and we would have some stage of our work behind us. If that were the will of the marshal and the High House... I think that's a rational proposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u7	Thank you, Senator. Personally, I am willing to agree to this proposal to consider the draft resolution on the Smoleńsk tragedy as second point, after the draft resolution on Mr Bądkowski's case, and then to adjourn. If I do not hear an objection, I will find that the High House is in agreement with this proposal. There is no objection, therefore, as the second point, after the draft resolution on Mr Bądkowski, there will be a section on the draft resolution on the Smolensk tragedy and then there will be an adjournment. If there are no more votes... Did Senator Borowski come in or not? No. Thank you. I would like to inform you that, following the preparation of the report by the Senate committees, the agenda will be supplemented by a point on the second reading of the draft resolution, a summary draft amendment to the Senate Rules of Procedure. We begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Lech Bądkowski. I would like to inform you that Mr Jan Wyrowiński, Vice-Marshal of the Senate of the 8th term and President of the Kashubsko-Pomorskie Association, and Mr Basil Kerski, Director of the European Solidarity Centre, were to attend us, but for various reasons they had to reduce their visit to a minimum. So that the opening of the exhibition, which I encourage you to see, took place without an audience. I would like to inform you that this exhibition is in the lobby before entering the sitting room and is entitled "Authorities" by Lech Bądkowski. I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 73 and the report is published in print No 73 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Legislative Commission, I have the honour to present a draft resolution which has been adopted by this committee and is now being proposed for adoption by the High House. This is a draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of Lech Bądkowski's birth. You've all received this project, you know the text, so I don't think there's any need to read it. In response to the request of the senators and your marshal to speak as synthetically as possible, even about the most important matters, I will not read the draft of this resolution. I'm asking you to take a look at the print that everyone has on their bench. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the fact that we here, in the Senate, can honor the memory of Lech Bądkowski, one of the most outstanding Pomeranias, a man extremely well deserved for the cause of free Poland, engaged in the strikes of August 80, a man who has been engaged in public life for the sake of his homeland for his entire life, since his youth, is a special event for me. The fact that a few weeks ago we adopted a resolution in this House on the 100th anniversary of the Wedding of Poland with the Sea, i.e. a resolution which concerns Pomeranian, Kashubian patriotic activity, these important facts which concern our region and which fit into the present and the distant past of our homeland, is also very, very important. Lech Bądkowski was a man who especially did a lot for young people, turned towards young people, always thought that the future of the Republic, at local, regional level, depends on how much we will be able to shape young people to be active citizens of the Republic. He died in 1984, so several years after the introduction of martial law, but he was a man who felt, he knew that independence of Poland would become a reality in the near future. As he said, it is necessary to prepare to be able to build this free Poland in such a way that our successors will be proud of it. Lech Bądkowski is also the creator of the regional movement in Kaszubach, an ideologist of the Kashubian, Kashubian-Pomeranian movement. For him, the love of this nearest and smallest homeland was the basis of patriotism. He's a man that few thought of at the time... In the times of World War II, as a young, barely twenty-year-old soldier of the Polish Armed Forces in the West, he thought that after the war Poland must certainly grow to large areas, territories in the west, especially about Pomerania. He emphasized this in each of his writings, in every document. Even there, in London, the Pomeranian Union was its president. The purpose of which was to include the whole of Pomerania, from Szczecin to Gdańsk, into the borders of the Republic of Poland. For him, a man open to various national nations and minorities, was also an important question as to how this future Poland Because he could not imagine that there would be such a shift of people as occurred in 1945. It will be able to function normally, well, if there are also citizens of the Republic of Poland on a large part of it, but citizens who will have German roots or speak German. So he saw this Poland big, strong and strong, also based on those citizens who at that time did not have to be kind to the Republic of Poland. So all the actions he has taken in the past, in all his adult life and youth, were indeed filled with such care for our homeland. Special heroism, special courage he was famous in the days of August, the strike in August 1980. He was the first man... the first intellectual, president of the Polish Literature Association, a writer, a journalist who went to strike workers and said he was with them. At that time he became a member of the Inter-Business Strike Committee. He was the main negotiator of censorship issues, cultural areas, etc. He enjoyed really great trust from the strikers. Therefore, today I will shorten this so that we do not prolong this point anymore, because there is a request to everyone that we really synthetically speak I ask that you, like the Legislative Commission, which has practically unanimously supported this draft resolution, all of you, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, support it. At the same time, I would like to thank all those who have engaged in preparing the exhibition on our floor before entering the Senate sitting room. It was thanks to the European Solidarity Centre that the members and activists of the Kashubian-Pomeranian Association managed to do so. I would particularly like to thank the members of the student club Pomorania. This is such a youth organization of Kashubian, Pomeranian students who had here... They are also co-organizers of this ceremony, but they are not here. They were supposed to be. They were to attend a seminar where they wanted to talk about this perspective of the young generation who thought about our homeland from the perspective of the region, from the perspective of regional and local values. They couldn't make it. They understand and respect it. And all the guests who were invited And those who wanted to participate in our celebrations, who were going to get here, were over 50, understand that you can't... because at that point we're proceding and acting. But everyone is happy that this draft resolution and this exhibition are... that there is a procedated draft resolution, and the exhibition is located in the Senate building. Because it is a great honor for us and for all of them. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the representative of the applicants to whom, in one person, you are Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I would like to inform you that no one has signed up for this discussion. So I'm closing the discussion. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Lech Bądkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 82 votes against, no one opposed, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the birth of Lech Bądkowski. [[Applause]] I would also like to inform you that we will deliver the relevant resolution to the senator, Marshal Jan Wyrowiński, by post. The second reading of the draft resolution on commemorating the victims of the Smolensk disaster in the decade of this tragedy is now under consideration. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is contained in print No 86 and the committee's report In print No 86 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Senate Legislative Commission of the Republic of Poland a report on the meeting of the committee which took place today at 8.15 a.m. At this meeting, the Commission examined the draft submitted by the applicants at first reading and proposes that the attached draft resolution be adopted without amendment. There was no discussion at the committee meeting, no questions to the applicant's representative. This draft resolution was prepared by us to pay tribute to those who died at Smolensk on 10 April 2010. I'll remind you that in this disaster outside of sleep. President Lechem Kaczyński, his wife Maria Kaczyńska and the last President in exile Richard Kaczorowski were also killed by parliamentarians, ministers, generals, combatants, military, representatives of the world of culture, public life personalities. And the senators. I will remind you that among those who died, there were also 3 senators of the Republic of Poland: Marshal Bochenek, sleep. Senator Dr. Jadwiga Fetlińska... Janina Fetlinska. ...and sleep. Deputy Marshal of the Sejm and later Senator Stanisław Zając. We consciously did not mention in this draft a resolution all the victims of this tragedy, because this group is known. Our intention was... And here's where I thank the marshal for agreeing to our motion and the Article. 84 The Senate's Rules of Procedure have shortened the deadline for introducing this project to the Senate because everything indicates that before 10 April we will no longer have a sitting. The idea was that before the tenth anniversary, we should make such a resolution. I won't dwell on it anymore. Let me read the text of this resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on commemorating the victims of the Smoleńsk catastrophe in the decade of this tragedy. On April 10, 2010, at 8.41 p.m. in the vicinity of the airport in Smolensk, in the territory of the Russian Federation, a plane crashed with a delegation of the Polish State going to celebrate the 70th anniversary of the Katyn genocide. In this event The President of the Republic of Poland Lech Kaczyński, together with Married Maria Kaczyńska, the last President of the Republic of Poland in the exile of Ryszard Kaczorowski and 93 others, including Members of the Polish Sejm and Senators representing all political environments in the then parliament, ministers and officials of the state, generals and officers of the Polish Army, bishops and priests of various Christian churches, combatants, representatives of the Katyn families, social activists, people of culture and other famous public life figures. The death of the members of this national delegation grieved the whole of Poland. The symbolism of the Smolensk tragedy from ten years ago is significant, because the Polish delegation flew to Katyn to pay tribute to the officers of the Polish Army murdered in April 1940 by Stalin's order. The highest representatives of the Polish State, who died on April 10, 2010, 70 years after the Soviet Union's Katyn genocide and near the place of the executioner, lost their lives in service to the brightest Republic in the name of the historical truth about the communist crime of 1940. Senate of the Republic of Poland On the 10th anniversary of the Smolensk tragedy, it pays tribute to all its victims and declares the continuation of its efforts towards the goal of developing our free and democratic Homeland. Hello their memory! The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants, who is Senator Jackowski in one person. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. I say 86 senators voted, 86 were in favour. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on commemorating the victims of the Smolensk disaster in the decade of this tragedy. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to suggest that, in the face of this terrible tragedy, we celebrate all the dead with a minute of silence. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] Give them eternal rest, Lord. And let eternal light shine upon them. Let them rest in eternal peace. Amen. Thank you very much. As proposed by Senator Czarnobaj, I declare a recess until 4:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u12	I'm giving you an announcement. The 12th meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee and the 30th first meeting of the Legislative Commission will take place on 12 March 2020 in room 217 immediately after the adjournment has been announced. Agenda: first reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure; print No 87. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 39 to 16 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u13	All right, senators, please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by a point: second reading of the draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure and consider it as item three of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. There's an objection. You're welcome, Senator Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Our club's against it. We think what you're trying to do right now is... You want to outrun the government on the bill. Therefore, we, as a club, will not vote, in accordance with your earlier suggestion that we may not vote. That's why we're going out and not voting. For the good of the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u15	Thank you very much. Since the opposition has been raised, we are voting on my proposal. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 45 senators voted, 45 against 0 no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] I believe that there has not been sufficient quorum for this point to be introduced as the third item on the agenda. I'm calling a 15-minute recess... until 4:50 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 34 to 18 minutes 16]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. The text of the Act is contained in print No 71 and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 71 A and 71 B. Before we proceed with the procession, I would like to remind the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Senators that in the article. Article 19 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Senate are clearly stated: The senator participating in the sitting must not be removed from the vote. You can only vote in person. Keep that in mind. I would also like to quote the tweet that Prime Minister Morawiecki wrote. Now, wait a minute. Have the test results come back yet? No, we're waiting. I'll give them to you immediately. Tweet of the Prime Minister: In the face of #coronavirus, the Polish society should be and is one. Government or government, left or right, we all work together and in agreement. I'm giving you this under consideration. Did the marshal think about it when he came back from Italy and didn't give in to his control? Like the Minister of Health, he thought exactly the same... What mode are you in? No mode. We're back to processing... I'll explain it to the senator, if you like, in the clowns. Let's get back to point three... I will address the Prime Minister, I will issue a letter asking for cooperation in the fight against the coronavirus. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Ewa Matecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u16	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Health of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, I present a report to the committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 14 February 2020 amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 18 February 2020. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 19 February 2020, the committee shall inform the Commission that none of the proposals put to the vote has received a majority of the votes. The committee attached shall present all the proposals put to the vote during the committee meeting. The first is a motion to reject the law, the second is a proposal to reject the law. For adoption of the law without amendment. Dear Senators, at the meeting of the Health Committee, you presented the position of the government to Minister Janusz Cieszyński. Representatives of the social side also took part in the committee's deliberations. They were: the Association of the National Association of Juice Producers, the Confederation of the Lewiatan, the Polish Federation of Food Producers, the Association of Employers, the Polish Spirit Industry, the National Chamber of Commerce, and a representative of the Abstinent environments. High Izbo, the Act amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer choices introduces amendments to 7 laws, including the Public Health Act, and I would like to focus on that. As stated in the explanatory memorandum, the main objective of the proposed law is to use fiscal policy as a tool to promote healthy consumer choices. The legislator assumed that it would achieve maximum efficiency in creating healthy consumer choices by imposing charges on foodstuffs. And the law presents us with a catalogue of these foods, which are to be charged an additional fee, and a catalogue which excludes certain foods from this charge. The foodstuffs to be covered by this levy are drinks with added sugars, caffeine or taurine, as referred to in Article. 12a paragraph. 1 points 1 and 2 and Article. 12b. 1 as well as alcoholic beverages in packages with a minimum quantity not exceeding 300 ml, as referred to in Article. 92. 11 of this bill. Products which enter the non-charged beverage catalogue shall be indicated in the text of Article. 12b. 2. These are in the vast majority of medical products, food supplements or special purpose foods, excise goods and beverages in which the proportion of fruit juice, fruit and vegetable juice or vegetable juice in bulk is not less than 20% of the raw material composition, is the first condition and at the same time the second condition must be met, namely the sugar content must be less than or equal to 5 g per 100 ml. The Act determines the amount of this fee, which is 50 gr per sugar content equal to or less than 5 mg per 100 ml, with a fee for each additional gram being 5 gr. During the committee meeting a very in-depth, detailed analysis of the proposed law was carried out. All aspects of it were discussed and both the senators who were members of the committee and the social side and the government's representative agreed that the harmful effects of sugar on human health were due to the risk of cardiovascular diseases, cancer, obesity, diabetes and caries. Of course, there is an urgent need to take all measures to eliminate these diseases, at least by reducing the consumption of simple sugars. However, many elements of the law that raise doubts and reservations have been identified in the course of the discussion. I will only mention the most important doubts and reservations that were mentioned by those taking part in the debate during the committee's several-hour meeting. There is an urgent need to introduce a vacathio legis concerning that law, at least in such a way that it becomes effective from 1 January 2021. This was explained by the need for reformulation of beverages, i.e. the adjustment of composition by reducing the sugar content of individual drinks. It was also stressed that parts of drinks with a minimum of 20% of fruit juice, vegetable juice or fruit and vegetable juice should be excluded from the levy at the same time as an additional condition, i.e. sugar content below 5 gr per 100 ml. It was also pointed out to limit the capacity of alcoholic beverages to 300 ml, which clearly excludes beer from this tax. The discussion also noted the selectivity of taxation of only certain products, including beverages in particular, and pointed to solutions that were applied in Hungary, where the catalogue of high-sugar-containing foods is much, much wider and guarantees a better effect. It was pointed out during the discussion that fiscal policy cannot be the only tool in creating attitudes and eating habits. Attention has also been paid to the urgent need to place great emphasis on such elements of the fight against obesity and diabetes as physical activity, health education and prevention. The senators also drew attention to too general provisions on the use of income to be derived from the tax in question. It is planned that this will be revenue of approx. 3 billion zlotys, according to which these records will, of course, support the budget of the National Health Fund. It was said that such general records are insufficient. It was considered necessary and appropriate to set up special health programmes to combat obesity, diabetes or caries, and such programmes as would have specific tasks. It would, of course, be necessary to assess the impact of the implementation of these programmes, the implementation of these tasks. And such records in this bill, as indicated, are missing. There have also been discussions about other elements that could have a major impact on the creation of our health-promoting attitudes and purchasing choices, which could result in a ban on advertising sweets in the media and a ban on advertising alcohol. Finally, doubts were expressed as to whether the mechanism in the form of a financial policy for selected drinks proposed by the Act would be effective and whether it would actually reduce, as laid down in the Act, the consumption of sugar per head by 1 kg, while at the moment the consumption of sugar is perhaps 50 kg. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u18	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, regardless of the Committee on Health, has dealt with this law. We've been working on it for three sessions. Let me brief you on what the committee's work was like. As in the case of the Health Committee, the bill was presented to us by Minister Janusz Cieszyński, present today in the Chamber. He focused primarily on financial matters. I would not like to present to you what is contained in the Act, because part of it was said by the rapporteur of the Health Committee by the Senator. I believe that you have all been familiar with this law, and I would not like to talk about its details. Of course, if there are any questions, I will be at your disposal. I would like to say a few sentences about the discussion that took place at the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. This discussion was also attended by representatives of organisations and associations who are interested in the provisions of this law. These representatives have already been presented by the Senator, the rapporteur of the Health Committee, because they were actually the same organisations that were at the Health Committee meeting. The discussion was very similar, as the senator said. I can only repeat some of the arguments that occurred during the discussions at the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. First of all, the date of implementation of this law was mentioned. As was the case at the Health Committee meeting, the date of entry into force of the Act was questioned. Initially, the Act was to enter into force on 1 April, now there is a record of 1 July, and there were suggestions that it should enter into force on 1 January 2021 at the earliest. The lack of an assessment of the impact of the regulation on entrepreneurs has also been raised. This is an important issue, actually it was neither in the bill nor in the explanatory memorandum. The need to transfer fees to producers was one of the arguments which also emerged during the discussion. The discussion also referred to the amount of the fee, i.e. the amount of this fee has been questioned. In Poland, the fixed part of the fee is 50 gr, and examples of other countries were given, for example. in Hungary it is 19 gr, in France 12 gr, so more than 4 times less than in Poland. There have also been suggestions to exclude juices and beverages that contain a minimum of 20% fruit from this law. It has been suggested that reducing the demand for fruit means trouble and for fruitists, and for processors, that it can reduce jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises, that it favours foreign producers, especially our neighbours, where these rates are zeros, I think of Germany and our southern neighbours, the Czech Republic and Slovakia. When it comes to alcoholic beverages, so-called alcoholic beverages. Monkeys, it was such voices that the provisions of the Act would reduce revenue to the state budget that consumers would be more willing to draw on the beer and health-promoting effect that this law is about to bring, will not. Ladies and gentlemen, what were the effects of the work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance? The Commission supported this proposal but introduced 11 amendments. I want to emphasize here the moment we worked. During the work, the Minister and the interested parties have always argued that they are engaged in discussions, discussions on possible elements that may make this law somewhat acceptable to the interested parties. We believed that this would actually work, but if it didn't work out, we were ready to make individual adjustments. The Commission supported the proposal and adopted 11 amendments. These amendments are, first of all, legislative amendments, and it can actually be said that they are all of such a nature, one of these amendments, Amendment 6, is, at least in part, substantive. She specifies the time or time of introduction of these fees. As I said earlier, the Act is due to apply from 1 July, but from some records it appeared that perhaps these fees will be introduced only in the third and fourth quarters, also in the coming years, so it was clarified that in the following years this would apply of course to the whole year, and not only to the third and fourth quarters. Amendments 4 and 11 actually just specify... concern the sale of stocks held. That's all I wanted to tell you. Of course, if there are any comments, questions, I'm ready to answer. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u19	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. Does Minister Cieszyński wish to present the position of the government? Thank you very much. No. Thank you very much. Now, questions. Oh, I'm sorry. Are there any questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs? There isn't. I know Minister Cieszyński doesn't want to speak. He doesn't have to. Are there any questions for the Minister? There are questions. Come on in, Minister. Senator Kazimierz Klein. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has dealt with this law twice. We have not applied for a law without amendments or a motion to reject it, although doubts, as you recall, were. Nevertheless, we asked the Minister at these two committee meetings to consult the social partners on this law. They raised a lot of doubts, as you know, like the committee members, and many of these doubts had a deep justification. Is there any effect on these arrangements? I am asking this because, if necessary, amendments could be tabled which would reflect such an agreement between the Minister and the social partners.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u21	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u22	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! There have been several meetings with industry representatives and it can be said that in principle this discussion concerned 3 areas. The first was the amount of the fees. It can be said that industry did not deny the need for such solutions, but at the same time made comments as regards the level of charges. In this respect, the Ministry of Health proposed to reduce these fees by 20% and to start collecting variable fees on 1 January 2021. Well, unfortunately, this proposal has not found acceptance of the other party, and I cannot present this House as a concrete arrangement. The second issue concerned the delay in collection. We've agreed with the social partners... Here I will briefly say that at the meeting there were representatives of the Confederation of Lewiatan and the National Association of Juice Producers, former representatives of POHiD, i.e. the organisation which groups large-area traders, former representatives of the Polish Chamber of Commerce, former representatives of the largest No, some of the biggest beverage producers in Poland, representatives of Colian company, Zbyszko company, companies... The third one, I'm so sorry, it slipped my mind. And there were representatives of the organization, under the leadership of President Gantner, who brought together food producers. During this meeting, we reached a compromise which assumed that the collection of the 2020 levy would be postponed in such a way that the entire fee for the months from July to November would be paid until 28 December of this year, and we also accepted the extension of the payment deadline. He is now the same as in the case of different tax charges, 25 days after the end of the given period, it seemed reasonable to us However, we received such a request to extend it to 60 days, and we accepted the proposal that this would be the last day of the month following the end of that period. You could say it would be almost 60 days unless it was February. Well, let's say, February 29th or February 28th for the December fee would be two months too. We in the Ministry have prepared such a proposal for an amendment, passed it on to our social partners, but it has not found acceptance. I know that the social partners have prepared their version, a completely different version, which I, as a representative of the Ministry of Health, am not willing to agree to. The proposal for an amendment, which I am talking about, was drafted during this meeting and received mutual acceptance. Well, I know the senators were influenced by other social proposals, but they're not the result of any consensus. The third area concerned the transfer of the levy to the producer in such a way as to safeguard the interests of the domestic producers. The point is that there is no such case that someone who imports these beverages would be in a situation more favourable than the domestic producer's situation. In general, it can be said that such agreed 100% We have failed to work out the version of the amendments. So I must admit that we have failed to reach a consensus, even though we have tried many times. There were several meetings, of course there were also talks, arrangements already at the working level. It seems that they have been presented by the Ministry with very rational proposals, that is to say, deferred this year... Here I will immediately say that we have spoken, you can say, already during the evolving situation related to the coronavirus, which has also affected our position. That's the first line. Well, the second point is that, as it seems, this year's 20% reduction in fees, and even, you can say, a reduction in almost half, shows that the government really has no fiscal objective, but a health-promoting goal. Well, unfortunately, on the other side... During the discussion it was often discussed by representatives of producer organisations, that the idea is, in effect, to treat it as something that is not intended to change consumer habits in any way, everything is to remain unchanged, and the solution that we introduce, this fee, is to de facto consume part of the margin of entrepreneurs, on whether we it doesn't matter at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u23	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, two short questions. The first question concerns the price for alcoholic beverages. Don't you think it would be more appropriate, in view of this health-promoting goal, to pay a fee for all the drinks that contain alcohol? Simply on each package, each bottle could be applied one, higher or lower, tax, instead of making a distinction between types of alcoholic beverages, some of which are exempt from the charge and others are charged with this charge, etc. Question two. Anyway, I took the liberty of... I don't think we're gonna be having any kind of debate right now, which is why I've allowed myself to make an amendment to the secretariat. The point is that these fees are exempt... so that those charges are not imposed on beverages which have at least 20% or more of the vegetable component. It's about securing the interests of the sadists, the farmers. I would like to ask how the Minister will respond to such an amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u25	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u26	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! With regard to the senator's proposal to introduce a tax that applies to all alcoholic beverages, I would like to remind you that such a tax is in force in Poland, that is excise duty. This tax, ladies and gentlemen, is a very good tribute that has been in operation for many, many years. It is worth to say, however, that the intention of this law, which we are talking about today, i.e. the Act on the Promotion of Healthy Consumer Elections, is to reduce consumption above all so-called. Monkeys. Monkeys are such a product category, which unfortunately in recent years is growing very, very dynamically. The share of monkeys in all sales of high-interest alcohols has increased by 20%. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is unfortunately a plague, each of us as an observer of everyday life probably sees that on weekends on lawns, under benches these small bottles of alcohol appear. In line with the recommendations of the National Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems, it is necessary to implement additional instruments which will reduce the consumption of alcohol in such packages, because behind this, unfortunately, there are very negative, undesirable health behaviour. A monkey like that is easy to hide somewhere, e.g. Navy, purse... This is a problem that we see every day and that we want to fight in parallel. 'Cause we're talking about a fee. In addition to the tax, which is excise duty. And that's the position, the answer to the first question. As for the second question, Mr Senator, it is worth noting what the proportions are. If we look at the amount of the charge imposed e.g. Blackcurrant nectar, a very popular juice with the content of currant juice, is of course not 100% currant juice, because, as we all know, such juice would be so tart that none of us would like to drink such a juice, we will notice that the amount of this charge is three times lower than that of a popular drink: caffeine, bubbles and a lot of sugar. I don't serve specific brands because we probably all know what's going on. This fee is three times lower. We in this bill... We see that different drinks have different properties, including health, and it seems that they are reasonably reflected in the content of the bill that we have here at the moment. It was also the subject of the discussions we discussed here. One more thing is worth paying attention to. Representing, it seems, the interests of the group that you were talking about, the National Juice Producers' Union has been calling for exactly this solution, which you are proposing to the senator. I feel obliged to inform all your senators. the fact that the other players present at these meetings were not, to be clear, convinced and indicated that the introduction of such a preference would in a certain sense distort competition in this market. I would like to put this under your consideration, because it is possible that precisely the proportions that we have adopted and which take into account the fact I understand the senator was getting to that point. That there are vegetables, fruits, such natural ingredients, vitamins... We see this, it is reflected in the content of the Act, but we maintain the appropriate proportions, bearing in mind that this is the kind of blackcurrant nectar we are talking about, Ladies and gentlemen, that is 11 g sugar per 100 ml.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u27	Thank you, Minister. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u28	Thank you very much. Minister, you said that this law is supposed to be health-promoting non-physical, but at the same time you treat the operators operating on this market differently in this law. Senator Filip Libicki mentioned this in front of me, saying that you favour alcoholic beverages. De facto, it is. In particular those with low alcohol content, e.g. Radler type, because they are not subject to this tax. I know you're about to talk about excise duty, but since a health-promoting non-fiscal character... So you must be quite consistent in your answer. That's one thing. Secondly, there is a whole group of other beverages exempt from this tax, e.g. isotonics, nectars, is all that contains up to 5 g sugar Or milky flavor drinks. I wonder why you made such a distinction. Was it some kind of unclean force, a lobby or other element that decided that some of the drinks, so to speak, didn't you embrace this health-promoting character of the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u29	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u30	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Well, I don't know why Mr. Senator's impure forces come to mind right now. I don't know why these associations could happen, but I would be very happy to explain to you why those categories you mentioned were treated in this way. I'll start with the isotonics. We have the official opinion of the Food and Nutrition Institute, which confirms that the inclusion of isotonics... 'Cause there's been a mistake here, too. I think I can say that. Because isotonics and nectars are not excluded in any way. They are covered only by this variable part, i.e. the one that encourages reformation. I am not an expert on the food market, but I am sure to believe that the share of nectars that have 5 g or less sugar per 100 ml is limited, and in practice this applies to the exclusion It is close to zero if any such products exist. That's the first line. In accordance with the opinion of the Food and Nutrition Institute, isotonic drinks, due to their nature and the fact that they are isolated by the European Regulation and are in some way supporting physical effort, deserve not to be charged a fixed fee, and if there is more than 5 g sugar in them, then this is a variable fee and there is an incentive for reformation. So that's exactly what the senator was asking you at first, so this health-promoting character... That is why this law is health-promoting, that it encourages reform. Fee in the case of a product in which it is, e.g. 11 g of sugar per 100 ml is significantly higher than that of a product in which it is 5 and 6 g or e.g. it is only sugared with sweetener. So here's the distinction. As far as milk drinks are concerned, it is worth pointing out It is also a change that has been introduced in the course of work in the Sejm. We also have expert opinions, which clearly indicate that in the case of the Polish society we still have a shortage of calcium, and these are products that... Of course, the senator probably rightly notes that they have an essential sugar content, they have an added sugar, and... It's a big one. Well, it probably depends which product, of course the recipes are different. But they also have a very high content of calcium, practically similar to what's in natural yogurt, and that's what we care about. Hence, based on expert opinions, we have made such a decision. The senator also said that some of the alcoholic beverages are off. But, Mr. Senator, when it comes to alcoholic beverages, we use the volume criterion: 300 ml in packages. That's exactly what we're talking about. The so-called. The monkeys I mentioned in the previous statement are covered. If, in turn, we are talking about this sugar levy, the situation there is that for non-alcoholic beers for which the sugar content is indicated on the label, i.e. how much sugar is indicated in this product They are products up to 0,5%. The alcohol charge is valid. Why does it apply? That's because we want to reduce sugar consumption. In the case of these products, those beers with a higher alcoholic strength, there is no indication of the sugar content on the label. And I am convinced that if you weren't the senator himself, then one of your colleagues, if we were to offer it, would ask me the question: We're gonna figure out how much sugar is in that beer if it's not on the label? And won't it be like that? Well, maybe I'm just a little imaginative here. That the tax officials will have to try this beer to confirm it or to examine it in any other way? Of course, I say this with some squint of the eye, but the problem is important and practically difficult to solve, because the label does not indicate what is the sugar content. Hence these drinks are excluded from the scope of the Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u31	Thank you, Minister. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u32	Minister, the question is... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Minister, right now we're in an acute phase of the attack of Coronavirus. It's hard to tell how things are going to grow. Of course, I'm skipping the whole medical page, but the economic impact can be very serious. That is what the prime ministers and ministers are talking about, and that is why a special law is being prepared to support entrepreneurs in situations where there may be risks from this terrible disease. But aren't you considering putting it off right now? It may be worth waiting six months and adopting this law next year, because it will be a significant burden for many entrepreneurs who can actually have serious problems with selling or even producing their products. You suggested that something like this could happen. It may be a little help, but it concerns the costs that must be incurred this year. However, it may be worthwhile to postpone the date of entry into force of this law for the next year or to start again at all, so that it will apply from the next year 2021.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u33	Thank you, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u34	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Senator! As I have said, we have already, in an age, said, very intense government work on preventing the effects of the spread of Cortipinus had a meeting with the industry, meeting with experts on this matter, just to establish a proposal that would be acceptable to both parties. That's the proposal I made. If, in the course of today's work, one of your senators would be willing to make such an amendment as would have just implemented these arrangements, i.e. I would like to remind you that it postponed the entry into force of this fee until 28 December, and as far as collection and extension are concerned... [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u35	Can I just interrupt the Minister for a minute? I'm expecting some interesting news. It is right, because I would like to reassure you by sending the message I received from the chief health inspector, Mr Pinkas, that the person to whom today's testing was being tested has a negative result. [[Applause]] Minister Pinkas also asked me to provide information which should not in any way arouse any negative emotions. Because, according to all predictions, there will be an increasingly frequent situation, that we will encounter a positive person, a positive person with a confirmed result, I would like to remind you that in such a situation we should report to the health care station. The phones are on the website But only if flu or flu-like symptoms occur, such as muscle pain, cough, runny nose, shortness of breath, etc. If the symptoms are stronger, we report to an infectious ward. If we feel healthy, we have the right to less professional activity, but we do not have to go to a health centre or an infectious ward. So that I wish you that even if there are symptoms, it would be a simple flu, and above all, that they would not occur, so that we would all be healthy. Situations in which we are going to deal with positive people are likely to occur more and more often, but this is not a reason for automatic action or even more of an automatic anxiety. I'm sorry to interrupt the Minister, but I thought I owed you this information. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u36	Let's continue. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u37	Thank you very much. Well, it seems that what we've worked out is a rational compromise. I think that if such a proposal arises, the government will be willing to support this proposal both at the Senate stage and during the work on these amendments which are likely to take place at the next session of the Sejm. Of course, we will support that if you wish. Well, I think that's a rational compromise. As I say, worked together with the industry And that's where we should go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u38	Thank you, Minister. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u39	Thank you very much. I'm a little lost with that label, Minister. Are you saying that if the producer of non-alcoholic beverages on the label says there's no sugar, he won't pay that tax anymore, even though that sugar will still be included there? Well, that's what you said. That's how you dealt with alcoholic beverages. And to be honest, speaking of not being able to control... You are because, for example, excise duty is collected from low-alcohol beers, and there is much more sugar than in those drinks without alcohol. By releasing these products from this fee, you are de facto acting the other way, you are counterproductive, because you encourage to drink low alcohol drinks. It's, in your line of reasoning, e.g. Those Radler beers I mentioned. That's one thing. And secondly, there are also milk drinks without sugar content. If you want to achieve this effect on calcium, please promote this type of beverage, not the one that contains a lot of sugar, often more than you mentioned in such a general description of coca-cola.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u40	You're welcome, Minister. That wasn't a question, but there you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I, of course, didn't mention any particular brand here, that's the association. on the senator's side. I'll take it one at a time. When it comes to non-alcoholic beers, if someone gave false information on the label, they would just break the law. It is the responsibility of each manufacturer to place a real label. That's why we're leaning on it. Thanks to this fee is easy to collect. This is easy to check, we take the product, we check what is on the label, and on this basis we assess whether the trader has correctly calculated the amount of the fee. As for this suggestion that it somehow promotes alcoholic beverages, this cannot be accepted. It is worth recalling that alcoholic beverages, as the senator noted, are subject to excise duty. The amount of this excise duty, if we look at its share in the price of a can or a bottle of beer, is however important. That's why I don't think this argument is quite a hit. We... Minister, but... Sorry, I didn't hear you. In any case, we have analysed this project, it can be said, horizontally and it is worth recalling that it received a positive recommendation from the Polish branch of the World Health Organization. Well, it's hard for me to imagine the World Health Organization to support a bill promoting alcoholic beverages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u42	Thank you, Minister. I don't see any more questions to be asked. Thank you, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Benjamin Godyla and Janusz Błucherz have made their speeches to the minutes. Legislative proposals were submitted by Senators Jan Filip Libicki, Wojciech Nebula, Kazimierz Kleina and Janusz Pęcherz. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. Thank you. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Health and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on geodetic and cartographic law and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 68 and the report of the Commission in print No 68 A. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the request which came at the very beginning of the Senate meeting and after talking to the President, I will briefly present the information on the report of the Committee on Infrastructure. Ladies and gentlemen, a law that has been proposed by the government as a... In short, the law solves the problems of excessive restrictions, including bureaucratic ones, in the process of carrying out geodetic and cartographic works, related inter alia. with reporting of geodetic and cartographic works, making available the material of the State Geodesic and Cartographic Resource, fees for the provision of the data, transmission of the results of the surveying and cartographic works and their verification, this is the content of the justification. There was a heated discussion at the committee meeting. The speakers were those invited by your chairman, by the committee, among others. from the Geodesic Chamber of Commerce, the National Trade Union of Geodesies, the Polish Geodesic Society. And I would like to say to you that, after hearing all the opinions, the committee did not share what is written in the explanatory memorandum and did not accept the draft law, but did not file a motion to reject the law in its entirety because there was a declaration of amendment to that law. I think, after consideration, the bill and the amendments will be acceptable. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And according to the fact that we haven't tabled any amendments in our speeches, I will put the Marshal's amendment on your hands, which we have prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u44	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? There isn't. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Because we have the main surveyor of the country, Minister Izdebski, the question to the Minister: do you wish to speak on this bill? Would Minister Izdebski like to speak on the bill? If so, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u45	Dear Marshal, Dear Izbo! In contrast to the opinion of the honourable Senator Dunin, however, the discussion pointed to the positive role of this law. I would remind you that this law in the Seym was adopted only with ten votes against. The law introduces computerisation to geodesia, shortens the investment process, releases data, which translates into the development of society, and provides financial security for powiats in relation to the management of geodetic resources. So that I have a completely different opinion: this law brings in a lot and is expected by the geodetic environment. During the presentation, yes, a few people... But these are very few environments. Basic geodetic organizations strongly support this law, including the Polish Districts Association and the entire administration and geodetic environment, for example the Association of Polish Geodetics, which does not include 20 people, but almost 4,000 surveyors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u46	Thank you, Minister. Right now... Minister, just a moment, because maybe there will be questions. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. I don't see anyone willing to ask such questions. Thank you, Minister. There's a question. There's a question. Is there a question? Sorry, I didn't notice. Senator Durlak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u47	Minister, I have a question for you. In fact, you've already said a little bit about it in this brief statement. As we know, Art. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1a and 1b shall specify that the verification shall be carried out immediately and in the case of the work referred to in Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3, for the area covered by the declaration of work up to 1 ha, the time limit shall be reduced to 7 working days, from 1 ha to 10 ha Up to 10 working days, more than 10 ha is not later than 20 working days. And now I am. After an analysis in my district, it turned out that most cases concern these smaller areas, which means that this deadline will be 7 days or 10 days. These cases are 90%. Is it therefore envisaged to increase the maintenance appropriations for those carrying out these tasks? And that increase in what... How's that... Is this going to be a percentage or according to this algorithm that has been in force since 2016? I would ask you to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u48	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u49	As far as shortening is concerned, at the moment, the current law on geodesic and cartographic law is the term "immediately', which is generally interpreted as 30 days and sometimes longer. So we're going to reduce this term from 30 days to 7 days. The statistics show that at the moment the average waiting time for verification without area distinction is less than 10 days. Therefore, there is no problem here. As far as financial support or additional funding is concerned, there is no need here. I am the main surveyor of the country for 2 years and I see an important need in computerization. I'm making every effort to do a lot of work not by hand, but by computerizing. Of course, when you take it into the resource, at this check there is the smallest field for computerisation, but computerization is possible there in other places, e.g. when issuing data, with processes that can be automated. The point is, it's all 100%. It was automatic. And that's what I'm trying to do. This is also the answer to your question: financial resources are not always needed to make progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u50	Thank you. Senator Maciej Łuczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u51	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, we've introduced GML. Today the surveyor must prepare a batch file, so-called. GML. This was intended to facilitate work and speed up the investment process. Believe me, there are documentation centers where simple documentation lies after 3 months, 3.5 months. Yes, sir. Do you not think that it is appropriate to introduce, as in the construction law, that if there are no regulations in force here, Mr. Minister, nothing, simply the Geodeci, so to speak, take it for themselves and wait these three months often for simple records, for simple inventory of the building or for a simple geodetic division. My question is: do you not think that it is appropriate to introduce, as in building law, that, for example. after a period of 20 days, the study is automatically included in the geodetic resource? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u52	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u53	Dear Senator, I'll start by saying it's not like you're waiting three months or four months for a simple inventory. At the senate committee meeting, I answered that because, in fact, a man stood up and claimed to have waited six months. Then I asked why he didn't intervene immediately, only waited six months and only then intervened with the provincial surveyor of geodetic and cartographic surveillance. So these are some isolated cases that I don't want to deal with right now. And when it comes to introductions... Ladies and gentlemen, the state's geodesic and cartographic resource is not the kind of archive that you can give away anything. This isn't just a storage room. These things have to fit together, Mr. Senator's department has to match the neighbor's plot, there's no dispute between you two. In the case of the Senator's plot, if you make a new investment, there must be data from the area's weapons. .. and it's properly located. That you normally don't see in the field. Therefore, caring about the resource, about the quality of this resource does not allow us to take it uncritically after 20 days as it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u54	Thank you, Minister. Senator Spider... No, no... He volunteered? Senator Wiesław Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u55	I have a question. The situation is that between the building of one neighbour and the house of another neighbour there are e.g. 4 m. And the plan in the county is that the border runs, for example. 0.5 m from the building of one neighbour and 4 m from the house of that other neighbour. Physically between one building and the other are 4 m, and the plans show that it should be 4.5 m. So what do we do to get that line right? What do you have to do? Because... Clear it up. Because it's just such an incoherence that probably the sum of these distances doesn't match. As I say, 0.5 m from the wall of one neighbor's building is the border in the county stock. And how do we make it all right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u56	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u57	Dear Senator, I will not give you a specific answer right now. I'd need to know the data, see what the data looks like. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in every resource, there are elements in every measurement that are burdened with errors. Well, without looking at this material, it's hard for me to take a clear stand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u58	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No. I'm still... Thank you, Mr... You're still a senator. Oh, there's a question. Mr. Senator Dobkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u59	To straighten this out, all you have to do is go to the county, or do you need a surveyor?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u60	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u61	To the county, of course. Preferably the district surveyor, he'll explain the matter to you. Mr. Senator...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u62	Who else? Czerwinski. Oh, Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Just a quick question. Isn't vacathio legis of this law too short because of the commitment to make IT collections available? It's not enough that it's about gathering, it's about sharing. Well, there's always a problem with computer science.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u64	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u65	Dear Senator, we are practically ready from tomorrow to do this, because most of the issues concern the central resource, which is the one I have in my action. So there's no problem. But thank you for asking, because it allowed me to show that we were in good shape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u66	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Thank you very much. That's a question that I don't understand. Agreed? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Benjamin Godyla and Senator Alexander Swed have made their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Artur Dunin. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? Why? No. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. The text of the Act is contained in print No 67 and the report of the Commission In print No 67 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Ryszard Świlski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u67	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, together with the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, held 2 meetings, during which we considered a law amending certain laws in connection with the transfer of funds from open pension funds to individual pension accounts. A few hours' discussion, the aspects raised during this discussion, have shown how important elements are, for example, the payment of pension funds, the issue of the payment of future benefits or, for example, what is happening in the capital markets recently, and how much this has to do with the law we have adopted, the changes to the law. Allow me to present in a few sentences proposals or questions that were asked during meetings, questions that were otherwise very important for the functioning of the entire pension system. The comments raised by the senators, but also by other persons who took part in these meetings, concerned the following issues. Firstly, the whole issue of the transfer of funds from OFE to IKE is actually about 15 million people today. If we look at the funds deposited in the OFE, we see that this is the amount... That depends on how we count. Because we started the debate and the conversation a few days ago, today the capital markets and the situation on the stock market look completely different. But you can be tempted to say that it is about the amount of PLN 160 billion. If we look at this from the perspective of the fee that will be charged by an OFE participant who will move to the IKE, i.e. 15% charge We're going to talk about the amount of PLN 18 billion, the amount that will actually fund the Demographic Reserve Fund. We raised the question that the Demographic Reserve Fund is actually managed by the Polish Development Fund. So it's really going to be money at your disposal in relation to a capital market participant. 'Cause that's what a participant or a holder of an OFE needs to be called. Secondly, the issue has been raised... The question was whether this solution was simply a simple attempt to patch a budget hole in the system, given how the slider system worked, which caused this hole in the budget to function. Thirdly, we are discussing that the provisions of the Act are rigorous for market participants who will move from OFE to IKE. It has been marked a time limit of 2 months in which these people should declare whether, as I say, they are going to individual retirement accounts, agreeing to transfer this money or remain... or go to the Social Security Office. Please note that in a time of communication chaos, information is very difficult, it seems difficult, within two months, to direct such information in a simple way to the recipient. Another issue that was raised at the last meeting of the budget committee and the family committee is the situation I have just said about the situation on the capital markets. We can see the situation today. All capital markets and stock markets are quilting. Today we see clearly and clearly that the situation has, so to speak, a color absolutely red. I say this in the context, for example, of calculating the value of funds transferred from OFE to individual pension accounts. The next issue that was raised is the transition to the Social Security Office or will remain in the Social Security Office. Here the topic was raised, that if a participant of OFE goes to the Social Security Office, then of course he will not pay this tax, which I mentioned earlier, i.e. those 15% On the other hand, his family will lose the right to inherit. So this money is really going to go to the state. Mr Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, at the meeting, 2 requests were made, the first to reject the law in its entirety. Nine senators voted in favour of this proposal, six senators against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u68	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present a proposal from the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have so much easier situation that the main elements of this bill have already been outlined by my previous speaker. Just one correction to what the previous speaker said. This fee of 15%, which was repeatedly stressed at the committee meeting, is not a tax And that's what the senator used. This is a transformation fee which is more favourable than general taxation. Let us remember that now all those who are in the current OFE will have a choice: or they will be able to go into individual retirement accounts... What is the essence of this solution and what needs to be emphasized is the fact that the money that will go from OFE to IKE will be private money. In 2013, when the Platform took some of that money from OFE... I think there was a ruling of the Constitutional Court earlier, which said that money under the so-called. The second pillar, the money in OFE, is public money because it comes from a compulsory contribution. We are today this reform by transferring the money from OFE to individual pension accounts, as if we own 15 million Poles This money will already be private money. I do not know if the Minister will want to speak in the discussion, but what the Minister said I think it's very clear to us senators. That if this money goes from OFE to IKE, then those who are going to be in IKE will have to show that money in property statements... Today, the money from OFE is public funds that we do not have access to. We don't have to show in a wealth statement. This shows this colossal change: we own Poles. For 15%. We're gonna own it, and we're gonna take some of it... Senator, you will be able to speak in the discussion. Ladies and gentlemen, there are, like, two issues here. Of course, there's this transformation fee, 15%. who will be paid by those who decide to choose the IKE. But later, as these funds will be paid in 10 or 20 years, depending on when they acquire pension rights, these funds will be exempt from income tax. And those who do not want to enter the IKE system will be in the ZUS, and these funds will be valued on the sub-account and will be paid later as a supplement to... Well, as part of the pension, because they will be in the ZUS. And then these pensioners will pay the tax 17 and 32%. So anyway, the money that's in the OFE today is going to be taxed. either at the beginning by means of a transformation fee of 15% , or later, if someone stays in the Social Security Office, this money will be taxed on the normal income tax on individuals by taxing pensions. Please note that pensioners pay today, let's say, 17% , and the conversion fee is 15% . So it is lower than today's tax scale. Of course, someone could ask what the tax system would be like in the years 10, 20 or 30. Nobody knows that. But there's a choice in this bill. If anyone wants to go to the IKE, they will pay the transformation fee today, they will own themselves, and in return, this money will be their private property and no more governments of the Civic Platform will take it away from him or ever... But he's gonna take the PiS. You're on your way. ...no other governments in the future... Yes. ...they won't take the money because it will be the private property of our citizens. And if someone doesn't want to go to the IKE, they don't want to take on certain risks that are related to the capital market, they will have the opportunity to make a declaration within two months and that money or these assets, of course in a certain process, will be transferred and added to his sub-account in the Social Insurance Institution. And of course, like any pension, these measures will later be taxed. And they will not, of course, be subject to this part of the inheritance, just as they are not subject to retirement, at least in accordance with the current legal situation, this is an addition. The discussion, as my previous speaker said, was held at 2 meetings, and we also listened to representatives of the social side. There was a representative of Leviathan, who generally supported this law. He was bringing some kind of attention. And at yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committees, there were 2 requests, one request, tabled by the chairman of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Kleina, to reject the law in its entirety, and a second motion, tabled by the Vice-President of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, by Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, for the adoption of the law without amendment. In the first place, the motion went further, that is, the motion of Senator Kleina, who received the majority, as my previous speaker said, by 9:6. And that's the committee's position. We as Senators of Law and Justice have applied for minorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u70	Thank you, Senator. Would any of your senators like to ask the rapporteurs a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Funds and Regional Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration, Deputy Minister Waldemar Buda? Yes. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will briefly, synthetically point to the essence of this bill. Indeed, as the Senator pointed out, the law is about privatising, i.e. giving to Poles the funds that remain in open pension funds. I will remind you that there were over 300 billion of them, in 2014, we were really going to have an unpleasant episode of 51.5% These funds were transferred, transferred to the Social Security Office, against the authors of the whole reform of the second pension pillar, i.e. against all those who in 1997 and 1999 said that funds collected on open pension funds were private funds. We have been convinced over the years that the funds we collect there, which we put aside from retirement, are ours, private. This was contested in 2013 and entered into force in 2014. We in principle want to achieve one goal, i.e. to lead to the situation that this kind of maneuver that occurred in 2014 will never take place again. We did not promise in 1997 and 1999 that these measures were private, but we would like to keep that word in the name of those who made this commitment. There will indeed be a choice. Between 1 June and 1 August it will really be possible to decide whether we want to own this money or whether we want to transfer it to the Social Insurance Institution. Whenever there is any possibility of giving a chance to choose Poles, we try to write these chances in the bill. Like when we offered to go six. - or seven-year-olds to school. And so wherever you can leave that right of choice, we do it. That's the way it is in this situation. If someone thinks that these measures in the Social Security Office will be better managed, they will have the option to do so. Although we recommend adopting the basic solution, the default solution, i.e. If we do nothing about open pension funds, i.e. our funds raised in funds, they will be transferred by law without our participation to the IKE, which means they will be privatized. On 27 November this year, the funds will already be private in individual pension accounts. Indeed, in 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal confirmed that these measures in open pension funds were public funds, so we transfer them to this tool, transfer them to the system of individual pension accounts, for which there is no doubt that the funds there are private funds. As far as the fee is concerned, of course, we could give up this fee, this fee is not important from the point of view of this reform, but we must act in such a way as to treat all insured people equally. Those who decide on the Social Insurance Institution will take such a decision, make such a statement, with the payment of those funds included in the pension, will pay income tax. And now the question is, how much can we reduce taxation or the fee that is associated with the IKE funds so that we can say that these entities are treated equally. Today we're talking about a tax of 17 or 32%. And our analysis suggests that in order to prevent non-constitutionality from being challenged by these regulations, we were able to go down to 15% as far as possible. . And that's what we're doing, we're reducing the effective public burden of these measures, but what we could get to is 15%. . Today, these measures are being taxed. - No, they weren't that long ago. The rate of 18 and 32% And we're proposing a maximum or a minimum of 15%. Ladies and gentlemen, the entire law, despite being very technical and very complex, leads to an automatic transformation of open pension funds into individual accounts into funds that run individual accounts. So from the insured's point of view, we don't have to do anything. And we wanted to write it that way so that these 15 million Poles did not have to take additional steps. This is all the more important in light of what is happening today. Of course, we were not able to predict this at that time, six months ago, but in the context of what is happening today, and our limited activity, the possibilities of action, the indication of this default choice in the form of transfers to private accounts is as correct as possible, because this is the most beneficial solution that we offer to Poles by default. And you believe that? Thank you very much. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u72	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Senator Jazłowicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u73	Minister, I'd like you to answer me. specifically to the question I'm going to ask, and I'm going to be using the language of the Senator of the PiS, Mr. Mr. Frost. Well, I'd like to ask you why the interest rate is so high, which is 15%. . How have these 15% been calculated resulting from the collection of these funds by law and justice?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, I have mentioned this here, but I will repeat it. Today, these measures... The state so invented that all funds from OFE 10 years before the retirement age are transferred according to the mechanism of the slider to the ZUS... I wanted to ask you what the 15% is. . How did you calculate it was going to be 15%? ? That's exactly where I'm going in my answer. You invented this in such a way that funds that are collected in open pension funds, for 10 years and less before retirement are transferred to the Social Security Office each month and are taxed on income tax. We are now giving this opportunity: either to transfer these funds to the IKE, or to the Social Insurance Institution, where this tax is on payment. And in order to treat the people who choose either one or the other... The maximum rate to which we were able to withdraw from this fee is 17 and 32%. As you suggest, that's 15%. So we're either reducing by 2 points or by a dozen percentage points is a public burden. We couldn't do more because we have legal opinions that could be challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal as unequal treatment of people who, coming from the same pension contribution, the compulsory contribution, today choose either the Social Insurance Institution or individual pension accounts. Of course, this fee is not the most important to us. Besides, you have a choice. If someone doesn't want to pay that fee In fact, investment funds will be charged this fee, and not insurance, it can choose the Social Insurance Institution and pay the PIT tax. There is a choice here, only that such people can ultimately collide with a situation where they will pay 32%, while here this fee is 15% and is charged in advance. And why upstairs? Because we're a little afraid that our successors will come and offer a higher starting fee. We're offering 15% today. So that you can never go back to it again and say you want a bigger fee. We are afraid because once, in 2014, it was. We have very bad experience with the OFE measures, and that is why we are proposing such a solution today. That's 15%. This is the minimum fee we can offer, here we just can't do any more. If you provide legal opinions that you can give less, propose less, we will propose it, but unfortunately you cannot.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u75	Minister, now I'd like to ask you a question. You said you could choose. The same was true of the age at which children go to schools. There was a choice then: six or seven years, but you preferred seven, so... But it's in the past. What solution does the government prefer in this bill? Powering the ZUS or powering the IKE?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u76	This preference is clearly indicated in the Act. She's just saying that if someone doesn't take any action, those measures will go to the IKE. We propose a better solution because these funds will be inherited, better invested and less taxed, and above all private. So all these indicators indicate that this is absolutely more advantageous. Thank you. We recommend an IKE solution, but if anyone wants to transfer these funds to the ZUS, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u77	Senator Jazłowiecka wants to ask you a question?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u78	Yes, I would like to ask you to complete the Minister's reply. I'm going to use Senator Mr. Frost's vocabulary again. Well, you said that when you took money from OFE, you gave the Poles a choice. I'd like to ask you why this choice is so highly valued at 15%. , not e.g. A few percent. Well, these are the costs that Poles bear in managing these funds at the OFE. I think that would be very fair.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u79	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u80	Senator, maybe I'll be rude, but I'll point out that from what I understand, it appears that when the senator was referring to the capture of the Senator, it actually was. This was the 2014 issue. If the senator wants to correct it, I think... That's how I realized it was about that grab. We don't offer to take anything because there's a choice here. And why 15% ? I'm going back to the same argument again. We cannot go below what is today and what we can choose by sending funds to the Social Insurance Institution. There's a tax of 17%. and 32%. In fact, this fee should also be 17%. or 32% , at least from the point of view of the principle of equal treatment of Poles. We bend this slightly and lower this fee, but so that the Constitutional Tribunal does not question it, it does not say that we are not equal to those who, under the same contribution, have set aside these funds, can go down to a maximum of 15%. That's what this calculation is about.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u81	Thank you. Are there any more questions? Senator Frost. I volunteered earlier. Senator Lover. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I, frankly, for the first time, hear that it is the legal opinions that decide the amount of the restructuring fee that it is not due to calculations. That's what I'm saying. As far as accuracy is concerned, Minister, the change of OFE during the Civic Platform, i.e. the transfer of funds to the Social Security Office, did not cost the taxpayer or the cash. Nobody paid the restructuring fees, just had a choice. There was no choice. As for the fact that the state theoretically leaves this choice to its citizens... I'm talking about the fact that you're leaving him theoretically because two months to report that I don't want to pay the legal restructuring fee and I want to leave my money at the Social Insurance Institution for a higher retirement pension... Such a time as 2 months to notify and submit appropriate, not simple, documents, this is indeed the time... How do I put this? On the scale of what we introduce by laws and what is common to citizens... One second, really. So you do not want the people concerned to choose the safer solution guaranteed by the Social Insurance Fund. And 10 years... Mrs. Senator... I'm almost done. Form of question and 1 minute. Not a second, but a minute. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal, just let me finish. You're welcome. The money that 10 years before retirement is in the Social Insurance Institution is so that capital markets are not as horribly hurtful as they are today, to those who keep their money in open pension funds. You know that, I know that. Why don't you just say it honestly? That's my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u83	You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u84	I must honestly say that you designed this in such a way that half of the funds were transferred to the insurance company and taxed there, and the second part was a zipper, before retirement, shifted and taxed. It doesn't bother me to get off my taxes. We propose a more favourable solution, but the only acceptable solution, i.e. from this tax that you have proposed, from 17% and 32%. We can go down to a maximum of 15%. That's what we're talking about. If anyone wants to transfer funds to the Social Security Office, go ahead, but in my opinion it's a decision... It's freezing your fingers off in spite of it. However, if anyone wants to decide this way, you're welcome. Only then these measures are not inherited, will have a lower rate of return, will be taxed higher and will not be private The state may come at any time and decide that these measures will be recounted, taken again... So it's a big risk... It's not fair... But since November 27th, these measures have become private, there is a record... If you want to move the funds collected on the IKE in the future, you will open a law and read the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Point 1 (2) states that the funds transferred to the IKE constitute private ownership and are not transferred to the State budget. And this recipe will be dreaming for years. You will not be able to do anything about these measures, we privatize them forever. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u85	Please, Senator Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u86	I'm gonna talk about it because this is where Senator Jazłowiecka calls me... But it's in the discussion, because it's a minute now. Minister, the funds will be transferred to the IKE, to special investment funds. Tell me... As I can see, this is where the senator either misunderstood or misunderstood certain concepts, namely the fee for managing these funds. Please tell us what this fee is today and what it will be like after the transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u87	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we have looked at the fees you have proposed for open pension funds, and we have decided one thing. We introduced a very simple rule: 30% down. We have reduced the management costs of individual pension accounts by 30% compared to measures that are on open pension funds. For insured people, for Poles we reduce these fees by 30%. Moreover, there were individual pension accounts which were voluntary, and in this case the State's limits were not proposed at all, and the average market charges were several percent. We're bringing it down to 1.2 today, which is a 3- or 4-fold reduction. So when it comes to fees, it'll be much cheaper. Minimum 30%. So today, the funds are really going to make what it's going to cost to operate the funds, and the margin is going to be very small, so to speak, we're going to go down 30%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u89	Thank you, Minister. Senator Bury. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u90	Minister, I have two questions. It's obvious to me that this bill is a cashier's heist, and that's all it is. But I was concerned about what you said. You said, speaking of a fee of 15%, that you set this fee at this level, because you want the Constitutional Tribunal not to veto these solutions of yours, the amount of the fee. So, as I understand it, you've already consulted with the Constitutional Tribunal. Yes? That's my first question. Was it somehow consulted, since you are so sure that there will be no intervention by the Constitutional Tribunal in the event of such a large fee? That's the first question. And second question about the bill. You also just said that the bill states that the IKE funds are private funds and cannot be transferred to the Treasury, to the budget For which you received a round of applause from a few present Senators of the PiS. I would like to ask if we can make a bill which, however, would also take over our citizens. Because I think this bill can be changed, too. And while we are glad at the moment that this cannot be done, knowing the possibilities of the government in Poland, one way or another, and the political culture, one can think that these measures can be taken sooner or later.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u91	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, first question If we have consulted this law and these arrangements with the Constitutional Tribunal. Of course we didn't consult because there's no such thing. But today, the Court's potential future position can be derived from previous case law. And that's what lawyers do. I am, among other things. I'm gonna tell you that our analysis was going in this direction. We have analysed how the Court evaluates the situation of equal treatment between the different actors in terms of public resources. And that was the result of our analysis and such a safe solution, which should not be questioned. As to whether the case will be settled once and for all, and these measures will be private, for example. The state could take these measures someday... Because, as I understand it, the senator is asking in the future whether or not... But why... ...that's the way it's gonna be. Please don't suggest... I'm the one saying there won't be a chance. Because when we say in the bill... This is the first pension law or some pension law, which states in its records that certain funds that come from the public system are private property, become private property. There was never such a record in the around-penetration bill. What would have to happen now to take these measures? There's already a constitution here. The Constitution states that it is possible to expropriate only for specific purposes and only for appropriate compensation. So if someone wanted to take that money, they would have to comply with that provision, so they would have to take the money and give compensation. Exactly what these measures are. So there's no way we can ever take that money. Where they were public and treated by states as public, this was indeed the case. This is the result of our initiative, our law which crosses it, the provision which states that the funds are private property and are not subject to transfer. Clearly, once and for all, it is declared that these measures constitute private ownership. And the senator will have to include that kind of value in his declaration next year in his estate statement. That might be interesting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u93	Thank you, Minister. And thank you for that information for the senators. With these statements It's different. Can I still do that? I'll put everyone in. I'll see everyone. Senator Chudowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u94	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I was caught up in this discussion... I can't hear you. Can't hear you? I was caught up in this debate about protests against lowering the fee to 15%. And who used the taller ones? Well, who'd benefit from the taller ones that the Platform Coalition is all about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u95	Thank you. Mr. Senator... Ladies and gentlemen... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u96	An example of 2014 is significant, because at that time Poland was subject to an excessive deficit procedure and a solution was sought, the European Commission was rescued from this procedure, and the funds were transferred to the Social Insurance Fund, the deficit was reduced. And, more importantly, PLN 153 billion were taken away and the deficit fell only by PLN 134 billion. 19 billion zlotys are gone. And I don't know if you remember what Mrs Kidawa-Błońska said... When asked what happened, that PLN 153 billion were taken away, and only about PLN 134 billion fell deficit, Mrs Kidawa-Błońska replied: I do not know, but surely this money is in good hands. So we are very afraid that these measures will not come into good hands again. That is why we write it down in such a way and we guarantee that these measures will never reach the good one again, closer to the unknown hands. And as for this tax, that's what it really looked like. You've redirected these resources... It is not only that you have pasted the deficit in such a way and escaped from this over-indebtedness procedure, but at the end you have taxed these measures. So you double-crossed the Poles, you might say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u97	All right, Minister, I won't argue with you from here... It's okay in the discussion. ...even though I'd like to. Mr. Senator Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u98	Thank you very much. Minister, don't you think... You were talking a little bit about the fact that the constitution kind of guarantees that the use of these funds cannot be changed by law and, for example, by law. those funds that will go into an individual pension account or an IPI, they just... Well, if someone took that money, then you would just have to give them some compensation. And don't you think it would be in the Constitution to guarantee that it would simply not be possible to take these funds away from people by law? If it was the Constitution that guaranteed that these funds, if they're already transferred to those retirement accounts, then the law in general... The point is that no one can just move these measures. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I just...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u99	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u100	I will just repeat that, in our view, these records are absolutely sufficient to guarantee the privacy of these measures. However, the senator touched a very interesting case here, because we did such a check. I do not know if you remember, but Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki announced in his exposé that he should actually change the constitution and guarantee these funds for the IKE in the Constitution. That was a sure check. Unfortunately, the opposition's response showed that she was not willing to vote for such solutions. We're not gonna... [[Talking in the O.R.]] And that shows a little bit of your intentions. So we in the bill guaranteed this, in my opinion, 100%. But we said, "I'm checking," which means we've checked what your future intentions are. And it turned out, unfortunately... The Civic Platform, in the words of the spokesperson of the club, replied that it would not sign under such arrangements. Therefore, these intentions are not entirely clear and... They're already in the constitution, you said yourself... But it could be suggested that, in the case of funds collected in individual pension accounts, it should even be included in the Constitution. And we have proposed it, and unfortunately you have not agreed to it. We know what you were going to do.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u101	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Lover.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u102	You know, in order to change the constitution, you have to trust and trust your partner... [[Applause]] ...and trust you rather hard. [[Applause]] I just want to say one thing. The Minister has said at least 500 times during his speech... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Karczewski It's funny. I don't. I regret that, Mr. Senator, there is not enough trust between us to try to change what, as a result of the years, probably needs some change. That's not funny to me. That's why I don't sleep a lot. And one more thing. Minister, taking away anything from anyone means that you came and took from your pension account, from the funds that were put aside at OFE, the money that you gave away to others. That's not what happened. And you know it. The money that was withdrawn from OFE went into the individual pension accounts of every citizen who had in the Social Insurance Institution, and they fund his pension. These are not measures that the Civic Platform, as you say. I don't remember what the word was anymore. She took the citizens and overeat them. These were funds that went into the Social Insurance Fund and have an impact on the retirement of today's pensioners. The question of how they will reduce the impact of today's transfers of funds with a 15% discount to the state budget I repeat, in favour of the state budget The pension rate of future pensioners? How's that gonna work?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u103	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u104	The senator has touched a fundamental issue. The State is talking about the fact that they have decided that the funds will be transferred from open pension funds to the Social Security Office. You said individual retirement accounts. There were no individual accounts in this case, only they were subaccounts in the ZUS. Each of us knew how much he had. Subaccount in ZUS. That's where we're different. That is to say, you have decided that you are competent to have these resources, while already in 1999 it was announced that they were private funds and that it was Poles who were to decide about them. And that's the difference. The Constitutional Tribunal has decided that... The Constitutional Tribunal... [[Talking in the O.R.]] The Constitutional Tribunal stated that it was public funds after you did it. After you did so, there was no obligation at the time of the decision, which would indicate that these measures were public. And that's a mistake. That the State decided on measures of Poles which they had no right to decide on, no matter how they did it... The Constitutional Tribunal ruled otherwise... Excuse me... And as far as I'm concerned... Please pay attention to the... I'm sorry, but don't argue. You can enroll. I know the Minister is very politically explaining this, and that's what's causing this reaction, but... This has nothing to do with politics. This is politics. Speak up, please. And when it comes to... The lead is changing, and Marshal Karczewski will have to manage. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski]] Well, I'll try, Mr. Marshal. I'm sure it's not as perfect as you are, but I'm gonna try... As far as the second question is concerned, the impact of these changes on pension levels can only be positive. Firstly, reduced taxation will result in higher pensions. Secondly, investment funds that will manage IKE funds will have much more opportunities and much more freedom to invest these funds. We're assuming that the return rate is going to be 10, 15, 20 years more... Bank... If you ask me what this will have to do with retirement, then I answer in this way: I am convinced that it will be positive and that ultimately these pensions will be higher. You're convinced...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u105	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Sekuła is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Now that you're talking to us, by saying "oni"... So they want to ask how the investment fund will work and what are the calculations of handling fees for those that will be related to management. As a citizen, I have bad experience with investment fund associations. Tell me what rules the Ministry has prepared for the company. Because I see here a mess of institutions that will manage our money. My second question concerns a hypothetical situation. At the time of my retirement decision or when my retirement age is reached, I will be able to dispose of my money. If I decide to retire for life, won't my retirement from this part be taxed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u107	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u108	First question about the fees. I already mentioned it. We have looked at those fees that have so far been charged by investment funds, we have considered that they are too high, and we have proposed that these fees be reduced by 30%... Specifically, Minister. By 30%, there is a whole table that shows these fees depending on the amount of the assets of investment funds. Up to 5 billion is 0.45% ...We reduce these fees generally by 30% in each segment. In what compartments? Specifically. I can read from the bill... Ladies and gentlemen, these are quite complicated calculations, but each table is reduced by 30% in each compartment. If you're asking me how it's gonna affect you... I didn't really say a very important thing, so thank you very much for pointing that out. The point is, what else is the difference between these measures in the insurance undertaking and those in the IKE. Yeah, yeah, yeah, It is very important for many that after reaching the retirement age all these measures can be paid out one day at a time. But if I don't want to pay... And this is very important information for those who want to benefit from it as soon as they reach retirement age. It is only a right, of course, they can decide so that it will be part of the pension for life. But from the point of view of freedom... There are situations where someone gets sick, has kids, wants to change apartments. If you want, you can withdraw this money once. In the case of funds transferred to the Social Insurance Institution, there was no such opportunity, and we give this opportunity when it comes to IKE. As far as taxation is concerned, that part of the IKE measures will not be taxed. And we guarantee it. The Act states that the funds paid from the IKE are not subject to personal income tax. So the law absolutely determines it. This will not be taxed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u109	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. You're welcome... May I ask, Mr. Marshal? But right now, the senator is asking a question. Later, of course. I'm here. Unless, Senator, you give the senator the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u110	No, it's all working now. Minister, you said you were a lawyer, and maybe I'll ask you more as an economist. Do you not really see the difference between looting the word used here? In February 2014 and now, in 2020? You were talking about an excessive deficit, then the situation was completely different. Don't you see the difference between that money rake and what's going on today? 'Cause you're also saying, "You guys" We. You know, I'm partyless, independent, and please don't talk to me like that. For me and that rake and that rake... You leave a little more behind, but there's not much difference. Only the situation in 2014 was different. Don't you think so?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u111	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u112	I never once told the State, I say the State. As far as raking is concerned, I just agreed with the senator's statement, and I don't use those words either. Those weren't my words, please replay my words, I don't use that phrase. This situation is completely different because then the state decided on measures that were private, decided to pass them on in some way. And it was already a violation of those rules, those rules that were first established. Today we do not want a repeat of entertainment, we say that these measures are private and we tax them as minimally as we can. It's very fair, we're showing you a simple solution. The maximum fee can be 32%, as this is the maximum income tax, which should be 17% because to the back there is a reduced minimum tax rate, because we reduced it because it was 18% We've lowered it to 17%. So, in fact, with this fee, we could go down to a minimum of 17%. But today we say 15%. So that's two percentage points less, but that's as far as we can go. I think the offer is absolutely fair. And if someone says that despite all these advantages, it's not enough that it's a rake from our side. If the President wishes to use such a phrase In my view, it is fair to choose, it may decide to transfer these funds to the Social Insurance Institution. There is less valorization, there is no inheritance of these funds, there cannot be paid immediately, these funds are not private, but if anybody wants, then go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u113	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Sekuła You're welcome. She wanted to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u114	I would ask you very much, Minister, to explain to me this mechanism of functioning of these institutions, which will be responsible for the management of money.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u115	Here's a few solutions. The question you're asking the senator. Firstly, it is that the funds will be managed by investment funds. These are funds that have been operating on the domestic market for years, this is the same system of funds that has been operating for years. The only thing we're interfering with when it comes to the activities of funds in the administration and management of these funds... Firstly, we are lowering their fees, and secondly, we are ordering them to invest safer five years before the retirement age, so that there is no such situation that this investment is risky and that this benefit is reduced before retirement itself. That's what we're imposing on investment funds because we know it's for pension insurance. Therefore, we impose such a sub-fund on them at the very end, five years before retirement, so that they invest very safely, for example in bonds, for example in instruments that are very safe. From a management point of view... Perhaps the question is also that. Because there really is an investment fund of the Polish Development Fund, but this is a fund that will manage the funds that will be saved into individual accounts. He will manage the funds and funds of those who decide to transfer funds to the Social Insurance Institution. Because the basic account is an account, it doesn't contain funds, it's account records. Therefore, someone has to manage these funds. It's going to be a PFR investment fund. It is about the Demographic Reserve Fund, which has been operating for several years, and it will be powered by the funds of those who will transfer them to the Social Insurance Institution, and they will be recorded in the basic account. As far as the fee is concerned, there was one lie here, too. These funds don't go to the budget, they just fund the Social Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u116	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jazłowiecka is asking a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u117	Minister, I would like to ask whether these measures that will move from OFE to ZUS will be frozen, whether they will be subject to the same rules as all deferred funds, all pension funds, i.e. They'll be revalorized.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u118	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u119	Yes, ladies and gentlemen, these funds will be as valued as all the funds collected, recorded in the basic account. Thus, regardless of the effectiveness of the management of these measures, the degree of valorisation will be the same as for the entire part of the previous pension, i.e. the total amount of funds written in the basic account will be the same. We can tell you what these values look like today. We have such experience from previous years that it was 7 zł, and now it is 70 zł least. It can be expected that these measures will be valued in such a fairly fair way in the coming years at least.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u120	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. And there you go, Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Since Senator Jazłowiecka has referred to me several times in her questions... I didn't ask you any questions. Yes, but, let's call it, referring to me... I'd like to make some three points of conclusion, general, because I think the Minister has presented these issues fairly well. As for 2013 and 2014, when the Civic Platform, as it was said, seized these funds... It is a common feeling of Poles, it is a common feeling of... I'd like to make a formal motion, Mr. Marshal. But let me finish. This is a common feeling of Poles... I'd like to make a formal motion, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u122	But now, in the middle of a speech? The senator uses... But what conclusion? Senator, wait a minute. Excuse me. ...to draw the senator's attention to the words he uses in his speech... But, Senator, wait a minute, because I haven't given you the floor yet. Do you report in what mode? In formal mode, with formal application. A formal conclusion? Then I'd like to make a formal request.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u123	I'm asking your marshal to draw your attention to the senator to use the right vocabulary. Never...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u124	There is no formal application. Thank you very much, Senator. Please continue your statement. Bravo, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u125	Senator, this is the common feeling of Poles. People thought that money at OFE... I thought it was my private money, too. I was then councillor of the town of Jelenia Góra. Many, many years ago, when I became a councilman, I was also a member of the OFE and I showed these funds at the OFE in my estate statement because I thought it was my money. Only later, after a while, the IRS stated: Mr. Krzysztof, this is not your money and please no longer show this money in the next estate statement. Today, after the transformation or transfer of funds from OFE to IKE, we will own those who want this transfer, up to 15 million Poles. It'll be their money, their private money that they can, if they retire, or pay in part, as the Minister said, or once. No tax burden at all. That's the first line. Second line. All the time the state about the 15% They're asking questions, there are questions, where did the 15% come from? , why these 15% . And it's said that the Constitutional Tribunal... As I understand it, the 15% I don't want to come into the Minister's thoughts here. That's... where's the 15%? , Ladies and gentlemen, and why this Constitutional Tribunal? Some people will decide to go to the IKE system, and some will say, no, I don't want my OFE money to go to the IKE, I want them to be in the ZUS. And the ZUS, when we retire, this money will tax income tax, which means it will be, as the Minister said today, 17 and 32%. - Depending on the income. And now, if we hadn't introduced this fee, there'd be some injustice here: someone who stayed in the IKE wouldn't have paid any money, and someone who would have to pay 17% from OFE to the U.S.S. or 32% , depending on the income. That is why this issue of the Constitutional Tribunal, which could undermine us because we treat Poles differently. Some of the insured who belong to OFE would pay some kind of public service tribute, and some wouldn't pay it. There's 15% here. . Whether the lawyers invented it or not... Well, it's a matter of calculation. That's 15%. the conversion fee is more or less, because it is difficult to mathematically calculate a certain effective tax rate, which today is paid by pensioners and pensioners, because it is not only those 17% that need to be taken into account. But you also have to take into account the tax-free amount, etc., etc. And so probably, as the Minister said, it was as low as possible, because we meant whether it was the government, but also the parliamentary majority in the Sejm, to encourage Poles to stay in the IKE. Another argument, very substantive, very measurable financially, is that today they will pay less, so, today they will pay less, and they will have all the benefits resulting from the fact that they are private funds, i.e. no government, which will be in the future, regardless of what political party will rule, will not be able to take these measures or tax them in any other way. So that these are completely different things. And what did you do in 2014? If that's what you want, we can get back to it. What are we doing today? Even if someone transfers these funds from OFE to ZUS, there of course managed by this fund, by PFR, and they will, so to speak, be saved on these sub-accounts, it will be real funds that are at the disposal of the insured. Meanwhile, in 2014, when you introduced this... Mrs. Jazłowiecka probably doesn't remember it, because it was probably then, if I remember correctly, in the Europarlament, but maybe some of them were here at the time. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what have you done? You cut the bonds because that's when you cut that 51%. That's the hundred and thirty-six billion through bonds... Because the Tusk government could not fit in the macroeconomic indicators imposed by the European Commission. You canceled out paperwork to raise your indicators, and you added fictional measures... well, fictional measures, maybe a bad term... you added accounting resources that never went to the U.S. in the form of funds. It was just an accountant's account on the retirement subaccounts. This is a completely different transfer of funds than we are doing today, because today we are transferring specific funds, whether to the IKE or to the ZUS, through the mechanism of this fund manager. And you guys in 2014 I'm talking about the Civic Platform and the PSL, just don't take it that it's rude, in this sense I'm saying that they took the money from the Poles, right? Not to mention the fact that the mechanism forbids 51% In fact, the whole system and the essence of this reform have been crossed out, because now all of a sudden all of these funds, the general pension societies that managed open pension funds, have increased their costs. This pension scheme has been completely amended. And we, as the Minister said, are still imposing today on companies that will manage these IKEs, because they will be the same entities, only they will be converted to managing the IKE, reducing the amounts for management by 30%. So future pensioners will be able to benefit from this even more effectively. Thus, all elements of this law are beneficial to the insured. And there wouldn't be a law today, ladies and gentlemen, if it weren't for your decision in 2014 that you were dismantleing the pension system that was created in 1999. Well, that's the truth. And today we're trying to get out as efficiently as possible so that they can benefit from it, because we have to do something about the remnants that you guys did. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u126	Thank you very much, because I was about to pay attention to time. Thank you very much, Senator. And Senator Marek Borowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! When discussing open pension funds and individual pension accounts, etc. There are a lot of different types of contradictions or such analyses, I would say gently, incomplete. Well, first of all, I'm going to start by saying that I was, and I'm in favour of putting an end to open pension funds, and that's not what I resent about the current government. Open pension funds were not set up by the previous team, but as part of the pension reform in 1999. Their first-born sin, so to speak, was that the amounts that were transferred to open pension funds into individual accounts were part of the ZUS contribution, and therefore the ZUS received less money than before and had to pay current pensions in normal amounts. Therefore, there was a deficit and this deficit was covered by the budget through an increased grant. It was a mechanism. And it grew. This grant grew systematically from year to year, because the next groups or tranches of citizens joined pension funds because, let me remind you, people up to the age of 30 had an obligation to join these funds. And this resulted in debt, an increasing public debt, because the budget had to release bonds, and it owed the public debt. And he grew up very fast. A decision that was made in 2,000... You said 2014. I don't know. I think 2013... In 2013, the Council In 2013 I think. It was a completely rational decision, I would even say late, and it was that some of the assets of open pension funds were decommitted, but only the part that they had in Treasury bonds. So this system worked in a very, I would say, original way, namely the Treasury had to enlist... the budget had to borrow and release bonds. Who bought those bonds? Bonds bought those open pension funds from the money they just got from the budget. So it became such a perpetuum mobile that turned itself on. The redemption of these bonds was absolutely natural. Nobody took anything from anyone here. This has been recorded in individual accounts in the same people's ZUS. I'll tell you more: it was written in accounts with a slightly higher value, because there was a slightly different system of valorization than for normal Zusov records. In addition, the amounts that were written there were inherited. At the moment we are already dealing with the rest of the "good." The government's taking out the rest of it, it's okay. Just like this: does he transfer it to the ZUS? Well, he says, let the citizen decide. If a citizen decides that to ZUS, it is written down to him in his account, but it will no longer be inherited and will no longer be valued better than a normal Zusovsky contribution, so here it is lost. And if he decides to do nothing, that is, he's actually gonna do nothing, because then he's gonna go from a vending machine to an individual pension account, then he's gonna have to pay a transformation fee of 15%. . As for this height, I believe that if this charge is to be, it is a height approximately correct. It's just that the problem is something else. Why would you pay for that? This is how it's translated: it's a substitute for tax. If you get payback from IKE, you don't pay tax. Well, now he's gonna have to pay, 'cause whoever gets it from the Social Security Office, they're gonna pay. Very nice, very good, just, ladies and gentlemen, every tax... And this is a kind of PIT tax. So every PIT tax is divided. Let me tell you about the proportions: 38% PIT goes to the National Health Fund, and after 31% goes to local governments and the state budget. And you. I'm sorry I'm gonna use that phrase. You're taking everything to the state budget. And on this... [[Applause]] You're making money. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the money heist. 'Cause there's actually a jump here. If you shared that tax, I'd have to say chapeau bass. But no! Why? Yeah, that's what this was all about. That's what it was all about, to charge a conversion fee, and that's to download it right now, for this year and for next year. I'll tell you more: six months ago, the distribution of this transformation fee was supposed to be half a half a half a half a half a year this year, half a half a year next. Yeah, but when the budget started to work out, and it turned out that it was missing until the zero deficit, you had to move something, change the ratio to 70% to 30%. It is clear that this has been arranged under the budgetary position. And finally, as we're talking about the IKE and the other OFE... It doesn't matter, and here are the words, that it's gonna be private resources, and then it's gonna be retirement and I don't know what. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment there are almost 16 million participants in OFE and there are some PLN 154 billion of assets. When we divide one by the other, it's about 10,000 per head. If we move those 10,000 to the IKE and maneuver them there, we'll be putting them in some kind of action, and so on... I don't know if it'll gain or lose, maybe even gain a little bit. But, ladies and gentlemen, assuming it's 10,000 zlotys and they'd like to collect... I'm sticking to the pension system, I stress. Of course, when you reach the age of 60, 65, you can take all that money out and spend it on anything... But this was supposed to be a supplement to the pension system. So if you want to break it down, for example. For 15 years, it'll be $60 a month. And that's the way I'm gonna say it, that's the benefit. The pension from the Social Security Office will be reduced by PLN 60. To be honest, there is nothing to talk about here except one, namely the transformation fee, which was needed by the government to balance the budget. And that's why he did this maneuver. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u128	I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that Senator Robert Mammoth has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. And I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'll announce a recess in a minute. Thank you very much. We're finishing this point. Is there anything else you'd like to say, or is there... Thank you very much. I'd like you to read the messages. Very, very good news.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u129	The joint meeting of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending certain laws in connection with the promotion of health-promoting consumer elections will take place tomorrow at 8.00 in room 217. Second message. The meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on the examination of the requests submitted at the seventh Senate meeting to the Law amending the Law on geodetic and cartographical law and certain other laws, Senate printing No 68, will take place tomorrow 13 March at 8.30 a.m. in room 179. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-12-senat-07-1.u130	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm declaring a recess until 9:00 tomorrow. Which one? See you tomorrow, 9:00. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 30]]
