ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u1	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Mr. Senator Secretary, please take your seats at the president's table. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. If you don't mind, I'm going to skip these ritual formulas about who, where, how he votes, because we've been saying them so many times, I think everyone knows. Let me remind you that Senator Durlak is the secretary in the plenary room, Mr Gromko is in room 217 and Senator Wcisła is in room 182. We also ask those who are in the rooms to disable the remote participation application and, in turn, those senators who participate in the sitting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and that the cameras are turned on and directed so that you can be seen. Please also do not turn on the microphones yourself. Legislative requests, speeches in discussions and statements in the case of persons participating in the meeting should be sent by e-mail remotely. We now proceed with the test vote, which aims to establish a list of senators taking part in the sitting today. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. I state that 75 senators are currently attending the meeting. [[Voting No 36]] This is the information resulting from this test vote. I will also remind you, in principle, that at the request of the Law and Justice Club, a two-hour break will be announced by 3.30 p.m. at 1:30 p.m. And that's all from the comms. We therefore proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 111 and the report of the Commission In print No 111 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances dealt with the Act on 26 May this year and proposes that the Act be adopted with amendments. The amendments were proposed by the Legislative Bureau, there are 5 of them, they are all editorial and for this reason I will not discuss them. The law is of a legal nature because it mainly eliminates errors of earlier laws of these laws is a pair The main objective of the Act is to adapt the provisions of the Income Tax Act to the current Polish Classification of Products and Services as from 1 January 2021. This classification was introduced by Regulation of the Council of Ministers of 4 September 2015. These changes have not been taken into account since then. The other objectives are a dozen of them, e.g.: reduce the number of annual PIT calculations; extend the effectiveness of the taxpayer's application to avoid any reduction in income tax advance; reduce income tax avoidance; facilitate the submission of a notice of payment to an account other than that entered on the day of the transfer order in the VAT list... no, that is clarification, extension, extension, removal of obligation, etc. So that's the nature of this bill. As I said, the bill mainly cleans up, eliminates errors and introduces a new classification of PKD. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u3	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative, in the person of the Undersecretary of State, Minister Jan Sarnowski, wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed has only submitted his vote to the minutes in the discussion. At the same time, I would like to inform you that legislative proposals have not been submitted during the debate... Mr. Marshal, Senator Benjamin Godyla also gave a speech to the minutes in room 217. Thank you so much for letting me know. I am about to ask whether all the senators who were going to make legislative proposals have already done so. I would like to inform you that Senator Kopeć has made an amendment remotely. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report during the meeting. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting after receiving the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Thus, for the time being, the examination of the third paragraph is completed. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the method of calculating the annual gross domestic product. The text of the Act is contained in print No 115 and the report of the Commission In print No 115 A. I am particularly pleased to welcome the countryman, the President of the Central Statistical Office, Mr Dominic Rozkrut. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u4	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance last week, 26 May, considered a law amending the law on how to calculate the annual gross domestic product value. The Act was presented by the President of the Central Statistical Office here. This law is completely non-controversial, it is of a technical nature, its purpose is to adapt the method of calculating the average gross domestic product per capita to the statistical breakdown of the country. During the meeting of the committee there was a brief discussion, which concerned actually one issue, namely the new statistical division of the Mazowieckie voivodship, the division into Warsaw and 9 adjacent powiats and the rest of the voivodship. Then there was a vote on the bill. There were no corrections. I would also like to say that this law has received a positive opinion from the Commission of the Joint Government and the Territorial Government. There were no other proposals from other institutions that could have consulted this project. On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Finance, I ask that the report be adopted in the text prepared by the committee, i.e. the adoption of a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u5	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers, represented here in the person of Mr Dominik Rozkrut, was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? No. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I find that no one has taken part in the discussion. Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech to the minutes. Because they weren't... Mr. Marshal, Senator Rafał Ambrozik gave a speech to the minutes in room 217. Thank you very much. I accept this information, but please inform Senator Durlak in advance, and we will have information in advance. I would like to inform you that no legislative proposals have been made. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 110 and the report of the committee In print No 110 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure on 6 May, the committee voted on the proposal, and this proposal is submitted to the High House in order to adopt a resolution on the rejection of this law. As for the comments and reservations that the committee had, I will start by saying that it is a parliamentary law, not a government law, as it was presented at the beginning of the committee meeting. Our concern is, firstly, the transfer of employees from the Road Transport Inspection to the National Tax Administration. Although they were assured that this would happen on the basis of an agreement, we do not know the details of this agreement. This is certainly not going to be cost-effective, because these workers, even if they pass through the agreement, will have to create new jobs, prepare jobs, equipment and everything that is involved. We also have information from the employees of the National Tax Administration that they are currently experiencing very large staff shortages and an increase in the number of tasks. I think all senators have received such a letter, and even a few, also from trade unions. Our concern is also that if the National Tax Administration takes over all these charges, the National Road Fund, which has so far been powered by these funds, first of all, will certainly be deprived of influence, second of all, all of this will be in one bag, and from experience we know that it is better if money is aimed at something, if it is some kind of subsidy or means aimed at a specific purpose. Meanwhile, at present, what we are all paying attention to and what we are all aware of, during the epidemic, the economy is in a difficult situation and we are afraid that this money can be spent on other purposes than roads, and I think that we all want the quality of our roads to be better and better, so that we can always provide resources for some basic renovations, modernizations or construction. We also believe that the committee believes that the new regulations in today's difficult situation in the transport sector are unnecessary. Charges are charged and transferred today, when the industry is in a difficult situation, firstly, due to the closure of borders, secondly, due to the lack of crossings on national roads as well... Although the economy is gradually de-freezed, we know that the time to return to the state it was before the outbreak occurred is still long, and we still have a lot to look forward to. In view of the opinion of epidemiologists, we must say that we do not know how the situation will develop in the autumn when it comes to the possible return of diseases. I hope it doesn't come back. We also drew attention to the short term vacathio legis, because the law is to enter into force on 1 July. The Minister said it was such a technical term, that it only concerns the introduction of a law, but it will apply. Another concern we have is the protection of personal data and the provisions on the free communication of confidential information. We know that business secrecy is important and companies are often reluctant to share information about other counterparties. However, these records do not guarantee the confidentiality of this information. Our attention was also drawn to the lack of a definition of road users, which will also have to provide their data, as in Article. 13 We have this record: the road user, who is not the owner, owner or user of the vehicle, will also be required to register in the electronic toll register. We are also concerned about satellite positioning and data transmission technology. This may be indicative of tracking all road users. The question is also whether cars, if this positioning technology is introduced, will not be covered by these charges in a moment. In view of all this, the committee is asking the High House to adopt a resolution on the rejection of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Now I will ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Jan Hamerski, to present the proposal of the minority of the committee, from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the minority of the Committee on Infrastructure, I would like to make a proposal for the adoption of this law with amendments proposed mostly by the Legislative Office. The amendments were welcomed by both the legislative side, Mr Telc and Mr Rzeczkowska during the discussion at the committee meeting. We have drawn a different conclusion from the one that the Senator rapporteur, Senator Poor, drew from the discussion itself. The Minister's speech spoke to us. We have no such concern as the senator was polite to mention here. Most of the amendments that were discussed at the committee meeting are technical legislative amendments, in part even, grammatical. For example, I can specify: the words "or leave the road without delay' are replaced by "or leave the road without delay'; the word "received' is replaced by "received'. Amendments are mostly technical legislative amendments. The minority requests the adoption of a bill of amendments, which were positively assessed by both the Ministry of Finance, the Minister of Rzeczkowska and our Legal Office of the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u9	Thank you very much, senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. For starters, I have a question for the Senator of the majority. The senator in her report said that... well, the main charge against this bill is that it was a parliamentary project, not a government project. And what is worse than a government project? I understand the government's representative was present.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u11	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I, as I recall, did not say that this was the main charge. I was reporting what happened at the committee meeting. Mr President said that the applicant is a government and the members of the committee said that not a government, but Members. That's it. Thank you. I understand it's a slip, but... may I, Mr. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u13	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u14	One more question. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the minority. I understand that a government representative was at a committee meeting and welcomed the bill. Yes? That's what we've heard from Senator Hamerski, so... That he was. But did he respond positively to the bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u15	Mr. Senator Hamerski, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u16	Mr. Marshal, yes. Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance and Head of the KAS, was present at a committee meeting. As I mentioned, together with our Legal Office, with Counsel Telce, she agreed on the amendments I mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u17	Thank you very much. We are honored to have you in our building today. There's still time for questions for the Minister. Right now, you're asking Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u18	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Since this is a parliamentary project, I would like to ask if we are pleased to welcome the representative of the applicants. During the process of the previous law, which was a parliamentary project, we had the pleasure of welcoming Mr Czarnek, who was actively involved in the work on the bill. Is it similar this time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u19	As far as I know, there is no rapporteur. Mr Czarnek sat here so much that he almost wanted to sign up for the Senate. But this does not happen often, the presence of the rapporteur in plenary. I'm just in addition, Mr. Marshal, if I may... Yes... There were no Members of the applicants at the committee meeting either. Thank you very much. This is a supplement to the report. The question is now asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u20	Mr. Marshal, High Commission, question for the senator, representative of the majority. I don't understand. Because from what you have told us here, it appears that the bill is aimed at some technical and technological progress. As I understand it, if we do not pass this bill, then certain possibilities connected with electronic toll collection will be blocked. Unless I'm wrong, I'd ask you to make a mistake. Is it that we are afraid of something here when it comes to the introduction of new technologies, also for ordinary car users, not just for trucks?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u21	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u22	As far as I am aware, Mr. Marshal, the introduction of electronic vehicle registration has been as if since 2018. Now it's all about that. At least that's what I understand. That what the road transport inspector did was to go to KAS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u23	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for Mr Hamerski. Are you not concerned that this system will be put to sleep, that there will be no motivation for action? Because, as we know, the viaTOLL system was created for several years and it started to function, and it started to bring tangible benefits. I'm talking about road renovation measures, and now mostly government roads, but we know it's only 10%. General measures, roads... And they were meant to be, the money, for the renovation of the local roads. And the money for the local government, as we know, is missing. The new viaTOLL system was to be introduced in 2021. We know very little about this system. We know it's being introduced by the Communications Institute, but the technical data... Well, we don't know anything. All we know is that since he's just gone into the Road Transport Inspection... The NIK report is devastating. It was supposed to be just profits, and that brought more damage. That's why I have some concerns here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Hamerski?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u26	Mr. Senator, I think in my speech... These questions were raised at the committee meeting, and these doubts were raised. And in my opinion, the Minister has resolved these doubts. It's a subjective matter, so to speak, in this case of feeling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u27	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u28	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. Mrs. Senator, the parliamentary project has once again reached us, the Senate after its assessment in the Sejm, with reprehensible legislative errors. This parliamentary project used a shortened path, among others. no public consultation procedure has been carried out with the social partners. I would like to ask whether the social partners, i.e. representatives of road industry institutions, participated in the committee meeting. Did they make any comments, any conclusions? And if so, if you'd be kind enough to say what kind of comments they had on that bill... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u29	Thank you very much. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u30	Mr. Marshal, the Senator, as I recall, was perhaps a representative of the Chief Inspector of Road Transport. But right now, I don't want 100%. I would have to take a look at the transcript and see if he was specific about this issue. Surely there was a question to the representative of NIK, but he did not want to answer the question of one of the senators. Yeah, I remember. But there certainly wasn't a social side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u31	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u32	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as this law is concerned, the electronic toll register will be kept by the head of KAS acting as the controller of data, including personal data processed in the KAS Electronic Toll Collection System. I have a question for the senator of the minority rapporteur. I hear that the majority of the senate in the interest of personal data protection raised such a charge that these personal data could be mis-processed. At the committee meeting, did the Minister ever refer to these allegations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u33	Thank you very much. Senator Hamerski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u34	Mr. Senator, yes, Minister, as I have already mentioned, has resolved all doubts, including the one you have now mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u35	Thank you kindly. I state that there are no further questions. The draft law was introduced by Members. Is the representative of the government in the person of Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska willing to take the floor on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u36	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! The Government Party supports this parliamentary submission, these proposals set out in the Law amending the Public Roads Act. The primary objective of this regulation is to provide a modern, efficient electronic toll collection system. As proposed here by the designers, these modern solutions are intended to minimise the current nuisance, the costs which are borne by the users of public roads. We are to move to a fully electronic toll collection process and reduce the responsibilities they currently have on public roads in connection with the use of this system. Currently, they are required to use dedicated road tolling equipment They're on-board devices, so-called. They must also appear personally at the service points in connection with the obligation to collect this fee, submit paper documents for the purpose of concluding a contract with the Chief Road Transport Inspector. The Act provides for the implementation of modern solutions, a change of technology on which the ICT system used to collect electronic tolls will be based. So this is not just a task taken over by the head of the National Tax Administration to collect a fee, but it is also a task of providing, the implementation of a new system, an electronic toll collection system, based no longer on the current radio technology, a technology requiring the construction of gateways, the use of on-board equipment, but on the commonly used satellite positioning and data transmission technology in today's world. It should be stressed that this direction is in line with the solutions applied in the European Union, as provided for in Directive No 52 of 2004 on the interoperability of electronic road toll systems in the Community. Full interoperability will be ensured of the solutions used in the European Union, the European Electronic Charge Service, which will also be able to benefit from this system. It will be possible to select one of the three tools that use satellite positioning technology. The first is a mobile phone with free software installed. Entrepreneurs will also be able to use the external location systems used in their operations by carriers. You will also be able to use a similar to the current OBU on-board device, which will be provided by the National Tax Administration. The electronic register is a novelty. Instead of the obligation to bring paper documents, to conclude a contract, there will be electronic registration of road users, those obliged to pay the fee. This register will be friendly because, if the data are already in the central vehicle register or in the central register of taxable persons, they will automatically be included in that register, which should significantly simplify the registration process. Here it is important to stress that this system only applies to vehicles which move on paid stretches of national roads and only to vehicles which are subject to a charge depending on the weight of this vehicle. Once the vehicle leaves the toll road section, its geolocation data will not be processed. Moreover, the obligation to register when using public roads applies only to persons who use vehicles subject to a charge. So that the circle of entities obliged to pay the fee will be the same as at the moment. Nothing changes here, the legislator doesn't expand anything. The scope of the data processed in the system remains the same as at present, nothing changes in relation to the current rules. In the proposed solutions it is assumed that data that are not used, e.g. data of someone who did not carry out transport for 12 months Also geolocation data will be automatically deleted from the system after the time set out in the Time Act. As I mentioned, the bill entrusts the head of the National Tax Administration with the task of collecting electronic tolls. The creation and implementation of this new electronic toll collection system also belongs to the National Tax Administration. This is a step towards optimising the functioning of the public administration. The task of collecting fees is the basic competence of the head of the KAS. The only signs of concern were that employees or officials of the National Tax Administration are already overburdened with their tasks, and here comes an additional task. Since road toll collection control is indeed an additional task of the National Tax Administration, but this task can be carried out when the current tasks are carried out, i.e. during the inspection of the carriage of goods under the SENT system, during the monitoring of the carriage of goods by road. Nevertheless, the task of collection control remains a fundamental task in terms of GITD. Taking over these tasks by the head of the NSA will above all not result in an increase in expenditure from the state budget. According to the Act, revenue from fees and sanctions, as has been the case so far, will be fully funded by the National Road Fund. We will not use these resources for other purposes. It is a special-purpose fund and will be transferred to it. Also costs of implementing the new system This is already the case with the National Road Fund. These financial arrangements will be defined in an agreement to be concluded between the Minister of Infrastructure, Minister of Finance and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. The Head of the KAS will join all existing GITD legal relations that have been linked to this task and all agreements and agreements to which GITD is a party will remain valid. These relations will be joined by both the Minister of Finance and the Head of National Tax Administration. The staff in charge of these tasks will move with all the equipment to the office serving the minister responsible for public finances. The solutions proposed by the legislator here are also applied in other countries, such as our neighbours: Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic or Bulgaria. In the Czech Republic, too, it is a part of the tax administration, i.e. the customs service, which is responsible for collecting these charges. The legislator proposes a smooth, least burdensome change for carriers. The new system will not be implemented until the beginning of next year. The exact date will be given in the announcement of the Minister of Finance, of course in good time so that entrepreneurs can prepare for this. This new solution will work in parallel with the current solution in order to ensure this liquidity, to facilitate the transition of carriers to new solutions. All charges incurred in connection with the current on-board equipment, i.e. bails, will be refunded at a time when these previously used devices will no longer be applicable. The date of entry into force of the Act, i.e. 1 July 2020, is a technical term, as it only concerns the transition of workers to the new office and obligations of the GITD taken over by the Head of the NSA, including the task of collecting the road toll. For carriers, this does not give rise to any obligations. The existing provisions of the Act will be fully applicable until the new system is implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I understand we're betting on modernity. This is a very positive project. I'd like to ask you something in the context of my earlier question. This concerns the protection of personal data, which was expressed here by the majority. I understand that personal data will be processed well by the states. There are no threats here about them, let's say, the departure or those allegations made at the committee meeting? Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u39	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u40	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, yes, the head of the National Tax Administration under the law becomes the controller of the data processed in the system. First of all, they must be processed in accordance with the purpose of the Act, in accordance with all the provisions governing the processing of personal data, including GDPR provisions, all technical solutions which determine the full accountability and protection of such data must be provided. Issues related to the exchange and sharing of these data are also regulated by the Act. These data, as I said, must be processed in accordance with the purpose of the existing legislation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. Now Senator Stanisław Lamczyk asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u42	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. However, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, entrepreneurs are very concerned that commercial data will be leaked. This is very important when it comes to the commercial market, so they have a lot of concerns here. I also have another question for you. The operator was now Kapsch and she has a lot of devices. What about these devices? Will they be used in any way, or will they be... But we, as the state budget, paid for these devices.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u43	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u44	As far as the protection of commercial data is concerned, as I mentioned, even the obligation to delete geolocation data after a certain period of time is provided for in the Act. Also, data that are not related to transport on toll roads sections will be automatically deleted from the system. Such solutions are already applied by the National Tax Administration in the framework of the monitoring system for the carriage of goods by road SENT. As regards the issue of currently in use devices related to the system, they will be withdrawn from use when the new system is implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u45	Thank you, Minister. Now Senator Jerzy Czerwinski asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u46	Mr Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I would like to repeat the question that you asked the senator about the motion to reject this law, i.e. The farthest way. How would the Minister react to the objections to this law, which were formulated by the senator presenting this proposal? And will the rejection of this law really mean that we will continue to be technologically backward, even in relation to our immediate neighbours? What exactly is going on here? Concerning the rejection of such a request Do the concerns expressed have any real basis?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u47	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, if this bill is not adopted, then we are, as I understand it, with the technology currently used in the road toll collection system, namely radio technology, bouncers, OBU devices, the current contract and service system. This law provides for the transition to new technologies, also applied in other countries. As far as these concerns are concerned, they concerned, above all, the issues of data protection already raised here. I've already tried to address the issue of data processing. As I said, there are mechanisms for removing excess data; the scope of those covered by the obligation is also in line with the current rules. So that it seems to me that this law offers a chance to implement new solutions based on new technology, to implement fully electronic handling of the entire toll collection system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u49	Thank you, Minister. The question is Senator Joanna Sekuła, room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u50	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the state's participation as a ministry in the design of this project. In addition, I would like to ask you whether the fact that it is being examined at the moment, in consultation with the Polish Chamber of Commerce for Road Transport and Forwarding, a major amendment of the Public Road Act, which in response to the judgment of the Court of Justice in the European Commission v Poland of March 2019 assumes that this project will be amended anyway... Please explain to me what is the purpose of introducing this provision, a partial provision, in which we know that a revision of the Law on public roads and other laws is being carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u51	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u52	Thank you very much. Senator, thank you for asking. The law we are investigating here today was a parliamentary project, and the draft amendment to the Public Roads Act is, I understand, a project by the Government, being run by the Ministry of Infrastructure. As the Ministry of Finance, we have no knowledge of these solutions. In this case, the intention of the applicants is to move to these modern solutions, to implement modern technological solutions. As I understand it, that was the intention. The purpose of entrusting this task to the National Tax Administration is to consolidate the task of collecting a fee in one... The collection of various types of fees in the administration as a task is entrusted to this body. As I understand it was the intention of the Members of the applicants to take advantage of the experience of the National Tax Administration from the already functioning system of monitoring the carriage of goods by road, which has been operating since 2017, which is based precisely on satellite positioning technology. Both the experience of the implementation of this system and the technical components of this system can be used to implement this new solution that the group of Members has proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u53	Thank you, Minister. The question is now asked by Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u54	Minister, I'll go back to my question from the committee meeting. As we all remember, September 11, 2019. Poland has acceded to the protocol on the electronic consignment note. On the one hand, we make sure that these new developments, new solutions that favour the transport industry... Transport environments are very much in favour of quickly implementing this electronic bill of transport. I asked at the committee meeting on 26 May if something had moved on. On 29 April, more than a month ago, Mr Poleczek, at the meeting of the Parliament committee, also asked the question at what stage this is at. The implementation in practice of this electronic bill of transport is certainly an entry into modernity, expected by the transport industry to go in the right direction. It seems to me that it is not too complicated, since Poland has already joined this protocol, and it is simply possible to implement it. Soon the holiday will soon pass There will be a year since Poland joined this protocol, and there was no information on both the Sejm committee at the end of April and the Senate committee at the end of May... I understand that the Ministry of Infrastructure is more involved in this, but maybe the Minister, as a woman who cares about details, can have some influence, so that it is introduced. I think this is definitely expected by the transport environment. I think everyone And the Minister, and certainly the Ministry of Infrastructure, and the Sejm, and we are in favour of helping the transport industry just by making life easier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u55	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, Senator. As the senator rightly pointed out, this is more a matter of the Minister of Infrastructure. All I can do is commit to trying to mobilise the Ministry of Infrastructure to answer the questions that were raised at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u57	The Minister, more than the answer, is that they implement it. And we hold on to what was also said at the committee's meeting and in the Sejm, and here's the answer... And most of all, we expect the answer that this has been introduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u58	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Joanna Sekuła. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u59	Minister, please tell me whether the state as those responsible for implementation has an estimated cost. For it is a parliamentary project and of course we do not have an impact assessment of regulation, we do not have an OSR. And therefore, can you provide us with any information on this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u60	Thank you. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u61	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, thank you very much for this question. As regards the question of analysing the implementation of this solution and the costs involved, we have so far not had a legal basis for such specific analyses to be carried out. But you can say from experience with the implementation of the road freight monitoring system that there will be the possibility of using technologies and components of the system, and above all the knowledge of experts from the National Tax Administration regarding the construction of such solutions. Some costs, probably at the beginning, will be related to the purchase of server infrastructure. And in the longer term, the exchange of technology used so far for gateways and on-board equipment, with modern technology, based on application solutions, seems to bring savings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u62	Thank you, Minister. And Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have one more question because I am not a member of the committee that has examined this amendment. I'd like to ask you about the amendments. The Legislative Office has tabled a number of amendments, including technical legislative amendments. The minority rapporteur said that the Ministry was open to these amendments and some of them supported them. What amendments did the Ministry give a positive opinion on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u64	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u65	Thank you very much. The vast majority of amendments have been positively assessed, some of which are of a technical legislative nature, 1 amendment is a more substantive amendment and allows, on the basis of... Because, as I said, for some time now the current provisions of the Act will apply, only the task of collecting the fee will be transferred to the National Tax Administration. And this amendment allows the main inspector of road transport access to the current system under the rules he currently has. It's about him being able to do his job.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u66	Thank you. There are no more questions, so I'm opening the discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of senators participating remotely in the meeting, of their transmission by electronic means to the address indicated in the instructions given to you. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! I miss the representative of the Ministry of Infrastructure during this debate. I had the opportunity to be a member of the Infrastructure Committee in 2011, as we moved from vignettes to viaTOLL. Then we were happy to seal the system, that we would have our money for road management, for road repairs, and it was not only government but also local, because it was still missing. Right now... I also remember the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee in 2018, to which the Minister of Infrastructure came and said that from today until November everything will be given to the Chief Inspector of Road Transport and, together with the Institute of Communications, will create a system for the 21st century. Of course, it didn't work out and you had to continue using the Kapsch operator, and so far we have used it. I think this way: report, which is, this NIK... He is very critical of the approach to governance itself. I also have concerns about these modern systems. Because if you're here... I understand that the Minister is thinking, let's assume, only about measures that will affect the ministry from particular journeys. And we know that these measures were about 540 million a day, so on average, you could say, it was But somebody's got to manage it. And we know the ministry didn't handle this management. What's it gonna be like now? 'Cause I'm afraid this system isn't going to develop, because since the particular sections of the road are now... I mean, fees aren't like ceded... I'm afraid it's still going to be the same and that management is going to be problematic here. That's why, as I said at the beginning, I have a lot of concerns. Of course, in such a first settlement about PLN 10 billion was received from viaTOLL. But the expectations were higher because we talked about 20 billion, and there's half. And this movement, which made the ministry through the chief road transport inspector, did not bring about the fulfillment of expectations. Perhaps now it will give this modern system... But someone has to manage it professionally, someone has to deal with it, the development of this new system itself, and that's what I'm worried about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u68	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Mr. Senator... Mr. Marshal... ...Aleksander Swede made his... Mr. Marshal, room 217... Oh, I'm so sorry. I've been calling through the system... Okay, okay. Senator Joanna Sekuła. ) voice in the discussion. There you go. Let's get back to the discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Joanna Sekula.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u69	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I very briefly, because I have spoken many times about the fact that the process of destroying the law is becoming universal, and here is another parliamentary act, a law in a very important matter, slipping through Parliament. When we are dealing with such contributions, which are important for the functioning of the state, these projects must have their rank and must undergo a solid legislative process. When we know that there is an amendment, a major amendment to the Public Roads Act, and if we are to proceed over parallel change, we should know why. If the government again avoids extensive public consultation, it loses only the quality of the law. It's also losing Parliament. On social trust, because those who are actually recipients of this right do not have the opportunity to participate in the creation of something very important. The fact that we are being accused of not adopting this law will make us branded as those who do not strive for the modernity and development of the system absolutely absurd. If no one appears who can support the draft law with authority and competence And in senate printing it is not even marked who is in the group of Members of the applicants - How do you do that? We can, without relying on anything, because we lack any information, make decisions on multimillion-dollar cases, if not billion-dollar investments? I must tell you that when I spoke to the Ministry of Infrastructure a few months ago about certain road projects, I heard already that such a project was being implemented. Therefore, the question arises as to how we are treated, the senators, when a project is presented to Members, which has clearly been developed in the Ministry of Infrastructure. As a senator of the Republic of Poland, I object to this procedure. I probably don't have the opportunity to make a formal request for this project to become a government project and to be included in the revision of the traffic law, but... well, then respect for government institutions might be restored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u70	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jarosław Dobkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I was told not to speak, but I must refer to what Senator Sekuła said. Senator Sekuła believes that only government projects can be prosecuted and widely consulted socially, no one knows how long and... Well, we know how this works. Is the public, as far as consultation is concerned, an expert on matters of such importance and substance? I don't think society as such is an expert here. This project we are talking about, as far as I know, has been consulted with experts, and the parliamentary initiative is equal to the government initiative. We're the Senate. In particular, during this term of office, the opposition does so. We also present drafts of various laws. In this way, the senator is confusing us, senators, as representatives of society elected in democratic elections, as well as Members who also act on behalf of society. I believe that Members, as representatives of society elected in free democratic elections, have the right to present parliamentary projects, all the more so because the government supports them. The government also supports this law and we have even consulted the government with amendments that improve it. Most of these legislative amendments have been accepted by us as an opposition in the Senate. We propose here, in the Senate, to improve this law, which is simply not completely transparent, we want to improve certain things. We also want this law to be adopted as soon as possible, because this is what technical progress requires, and that is what requires us not to be, say, in Europe at the end, in terms of modern solutions, the introduction of electronics or automation. Well, as a representative... As you say, you're progressing, but here you're putting it like you're backwards. You do not want to implement technical progress in such an important area as transport. Using toll roads, highways... I'm very appalled, and I'm sorry that you want to block this bill. I don't know what you're talking about. In my opinion, it is only that it is as bad as possible that we are a wall in Europe so that we cannot introduce modern methods, modern solutions that are already in place in Europe. I am very much in favour of adopting this bill, but of course I am in favour of accepting earlier the amendments that we have tabled as a minority in the Senate. The aim is to adopt these amendments and, together with these amendments, adopt the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u72	Thank you, Senator. For the record, Senator Wiesław Dobkowski spoke. I'm sorry for mistakeing his name. Anyone else? There are no volunteers. Ad vocem Senator Sekuła. And, please, ad vocem, senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u73	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, I clearly said in my speech that the fact that we want to vote against this law does not result from the fact that we are opposed to technical progress. This is our opposition to the method of proceding. There's no obstacle to this being a government bill. Especially since I made it clear that this process had already started at the Ministry of Infrastructure. All I'm saying is that the procedure is right. This law is to come from experts, specialists in positions which oblige them to company such solutions. No Member, without compromising his competence, has the right to interfere in matters that belong to the government. That's it. So, Mr. Senator, blaming me, treating me as a person who's holding back progress, is completely against the intention I've presented. All I'm saying is that the procedure should be based on government work, nothing more. Thank you. I'd still like to correct, because here...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u74	Please. Five minutes. It's all about... If anyone wants to correct it, please report. Senator Lamczyk. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u75	Yes. Thank you very much. This is primarily about this broad public consultation. Like I said, here's the one who's interested are the carriers. The carriers have the most concerns. After all, we know what happened, how viaTOLL was introduced, how many problems there were, how there were penalties, that there were double rates charged. Here these problems were the most. That is why carriers have the most concerns about the new system and have not been consulted. Of course, they're worried about full surveillance, about the commercial data leak, as the Minister said. That's why I repeat: the Ministry of Infrastructure has run out here, which I think has given up. Since 2018, when all this was assigned to the General Road Transport Inspection, he's gone. And this should be the solution together, for example. With the Institute of Communications present. We are in favour of a modern solution, but the public consultation should be conducted and there is no such thing here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u76	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. Do you all... Oh, have the senators who wanted to make legislative proposals already done so? There are no calls. I would like to inform you that no one has made any legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Fertilization and Fertilization and the Act on the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. The text of the Act is contained in print No 113 and the report of the Commission In print No 113 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Bogucki, to present a report to the committee. Mr. Marshal... The card's not on... Yeah, the card... You can talk from here. You can speak from the platform now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u77	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the Act is to ensure the application of the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament of 5 June 2019 laying down rules on the making available on the market of fertilising products. The amendments proposed in the Act consist of the appointment of a notifying authority which will be responsible for these issues. In accordance with the provisions of the Regulation, Member States are required to designate notifying authorities which will be responsible for the development and application of the procedures necessary for the assessment and notification of conformity assessment bodies for fertilising products and for the monitoring of notified bodies. In Poland, according to the generally applicable system, the Minister responsible for economic affairs is responsible for accreditation, authorisation and notification, in accordance with the Law on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. It therefore proposes that issues relating to the making available of fertilising products on the market should also be addressed by the Minister responsible for economic affairs. In addition, the Act introduces amendments to add provisions prohibiting the application from 21 August 2021. So this is going to happen in over a year. Granulated urea without adequate safeguards, i.e. non-inhibited urea or biodegradable coating. This aims to achieve 2 objectives: firstly, the environmental objective, i.e. the reduction of ammonia emissions and, secondly, the agricultural objective, because fertilisers in such coatings, so protected, will last longer and will therefore be longer absorbed by plants, better absorbed by plants. The third part of the changes included in this Act are changes in the competence to supervise the marketing of fertilisers. Until now, this surveillance has been carried out by the Agricultural and Food Articles Trade Quality Inspection. The Act proposes an amendment so that this supervision takes over the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection. The State Plant Protection and Seed Inspection has been working for years. In fact, as the name suggests, issues related to, inter alia, plant protection products with the use of plant protection products. It appears that it is appropriate and appropriate to transfer to this inspection also competence in the use of fertilisers. I would also like to point out that both inspections are in the field of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, so when it comes to the minister's supervision in this area, nothing changes. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development adopted the Law without amendment at its meeting on 12 May.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u78	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Mariusz Gromka, who is in room 182, to Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u79	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, as you said, supervision of the placing on the market of fertilisers will be carried out by the State Plant Protection and Seed Protection Inspection. The amendment provided that granulated urea could not be used as from 1 August to reduce ammonia emissions to the atmosphere. I have a question: was there an in-depth discussion at the committee meeting on this subject? About fertilisers that should be withdrawn for environmental reasons? Were these issues discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u80	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u81	In addition to issues related to urea, those that are regulated by this law... There was no discussion at the committee meeting. Let me remind you that the granulated urea legislation will come into force in 2021, so it is more than a year for farmers, as well as producers, to be able to use what has been produced so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u82	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions for you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration, Deputy Minister Jan Białkowski? In the absence of questions, I see no such justification. There's no need for further development. Senator Bogucki has discussed the project so widely that I think that's enough. Thank you very much. There'll be any questions in a minute. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. There are no questions... They're here. Senator Benjamin Godyla is asking a question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u83	A question to the Minister about supervision. As we have heard, so far the inspection of all this has been carried out by the Agricultural and Food Quality Inspection, and now this supervision will be taken over by the State Plant and Seed Protection Inspection. I have a question for you. What about the employees who worked in the commercial quality inspection? Will they go to the state plant protection inspection? And what about the financials? Will finance be transferred to the State Plant Protection Inspection?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u84	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The scope of the analyses and studies carried out by the inspection of agri-food products was so insignificant that at the meeting of the heads of PIORiN and IJHARS, i.e. the Inspection of Commercial Quality of Agricultural and Food Articles, when the scale and possible needs related to the acquisition of new tasks by PIORiN, i.e. the State Inspection of Plant Protection and Seed Protection, it was established that there was no need to do so because most of the tasks that PIORiN will carry out in the field of monitoring the introduction of fertilisers will be practically in line with the existing tasks that PIORiN carries out in the control of units marketing plant protection products. Here, there's a part of the job that goes hand in hand. The scale of tasks that will move to PIORiN is so small that there is no need to move workers. The PIORIN will be perfectly able to handle the staff resource it has at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u86	Thank you, Minister. Senator Alexander Swed is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u87	Thank you very much. Minister, I will repeat the question I asked earlier. I talk a lot to farmers. The issue of information, I think, is very important here. I know that the proposed amendment provides for the withdrawal of urea from 1 August 2021. But do we have any information yet? Because you were talking about analysis, about research on the environmental impact of individual fertilisers, so I'm guessing that's what you do. Are there plans to be made in the near future, or will there be plans to withdraw any fertilizers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u88	I have an extra question. Does the withdrawal of urea concern withdrawal from the market or withdrawal from use?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! This concerns the use of fertilisers. Indeed, we are conducting studies on the possible effects of the withdrawal of granulated urea. According to our estimates, the increase in the price of fertiliser with the value of inhibitor or coated can amount to PLN 190.240 per tonne. In Germany, where this ban has been in force since 1 February of this year, this increase amounts to around EUR 30 per tonne. We also hope that such wide use and the market will simply force these growths to decrease. And assuming that the benefits are also significant, because the loss of ammonia is undeniable and there is nothing to discuss here, these losses are serious and the number of treatments can be reduced... Therefore, I believe that these costs will be balanced so that there should be no problem of cost increases. If you don't mind my asking, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u90	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u91	Minister, I did not ask about costs and God's weapons I do not discuss when it comes to withdrawal, it is known that environmental protection is very important. I asked about the other fertilizers. Do these analyses and tests show that other fertilisers may possibly be withdrawn as well? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u92	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u93	This only applies to granulated urea... Thank you, Mr... ...because there are significant losses of ammonia and this involves environmental protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u94	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, a simple question. There are no transitional provisions here. Will all the granules that have been produced to date be used up to August 2021? Because then there's a ban on use, not only production, but also use.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u96	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! According to the assurances made by the companies that produce urea, yes, it will be used up to 1 August 2021.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u98	Thank you. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of the senators, who have participated remotely in the meeting. - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Sweed, Benjamin Godyla and Rafał Ambrozik made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Have all the senators who wanted to submit legislative proposals already done so? I would like to inform you that legislative proposals have not been received. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Republic of Singapore, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 19 October 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 121 and the report of the Commission In print No 121 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a few minutes' break. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 45 to 11 minutes 52]] I'm extending the recess to 12.45. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Repeat: I'm extending the recess until 12.45. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 53 to 12 minutes 50]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, we are returning to work and continuing our deliberations. We will now proceed with the examination of paragraph 12, followed by the 13th, concerning amendments to the Senate's Rules of Procedure. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of draft resolutions on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you that these projects have been submitted by the Senators' groups and are included in prints No 48 and 72 and that the report "Print No 48/72 S." I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Marek Borowski, to submit a report to the committee on draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The project, which I have the honour to present here today, has already had a story, because it was adopted by the committee in February. Yeah, but then because of the known events and other very important things, he expected me to say so, for his turn. Therefore, since it has been a few months since then, I will only allow myself to recall the main changes in this project in some kind of telegraph. Firstly, this proposal clarifies the voting procedure for the selection of a marshal. I would like to remind you that in the previous regulation we had a problem with the fact that when the number of votes cast e.g. for 2 candidates is equal to Or when there's more of them. It can happen in a certain situation that the next tour will pass the one who wins the draw. Well, we'd like to avoid that. Thus, the rules that have been introduced there simply eliminates such a rather bizarre solution, which, in particular, would be regarded as a very original procedure when choosing a marshal. Secondly, the principle of constructive appeal of the marshal is introduced. Here the change is actually merely that if during the term of office there is such a situation that, I understand, there will be some change of force and there will be a request for cancellation of the marshal, then at the same time the candidate for a new marshal should be pointed out in this proposal. This is the procedure of such constructive vote of distrust, which is also known in Poland, in the case of the selection of other bodies. Thirdly, the project maintains the number of four Vice-Marshals. I am talking about this because this is a summary report on 2 projects. The second project was submitted by the PiS senators and provides whether it proposes to increase the number of Vice-Marshals to 5. The Commission has not approved this proposal. And in this overall report there are 4 Vice-Marshals. Fourthly, the position of Deputy Head of the Senate Office is being introduced. That was not the position, i.e. There used to be, and then, in the last term, there was no more. He was the Director-General. This position is being terminated and the position of deputy head of the firm is restored. Fifthly, the Senior Convention is entitled to regulate the size of committees, parities. It's about the number of places for clubs and wheels. Sixthly, the right to attend Senate meetings is extended to include representatives of certain organisations. At the moment, the right to attend Senate meetings, also to speak, has the right of representatives of certain bodies, the most famous ones, of course, such as the Council of Ministers or the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Tribunal, etc. Conclusions have emerged. And the committee approved them. In order to ensure that representatives of national authorities and organisations representing different professional groups can also appear without any special invitation. Of course, at that time, when there are laws on the agenda, issues of statutory interest to these people. This request came from a spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises who made such a remark that the Senate is considering such projects from time to time and he would like to participate in the deliberations without any special invitation. Seventhly, this proposal clarifies the rules for roll-call voting and for determining the outcome of the vote in the case of a simple and absolute majority. This has so far been very generally written and sometimes controversial, so we wanted to eliminate these controversys. Eight o'clock... Another amendment regulates the situation in which amendments have been adopted but no resolution has been adopted. It happened to us once, and it triggered, let's say, some conflicting opinions about what's next. Here is a mode described which tells how the marshal goes further, so as not to complicate the proceedings, not to prolong them, etc. Next case, possibility of amending the agenda in the absence of the applicant's representative. Sometimes it happens that there is no e.g. The minister's representative who's late has some trouble getting here, or it turns out he's been misinformed... Then, in fact, you have to wait for him to come, and at that time we could discuss other points that are in the next step. Such a change to the agenda may be ordered by the Marshal without delay. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] There are also several amendments, amendments concerning the selection procedure for a member of the state committee She's got a long name, I'll give you a summary. For the fight against pedophilia. The Senate elects one member of this committee. This must be done in a specific procedure and this procedure in this regulatory amendment is described. And these are all changes, Mrs. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u100	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator of the committee and to authorised representatives of applicants. I would like to remind you that the applicants of the project in print No 48 authorised them to represent Senator Krzysztof Słoń and the applicants of the project in print No. 72 of Senator Marek Borowski. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Mariusz Gromka and to Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Your Senators who are participating in the meeting remotely, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. Some senators have already asked questions. The first is Senator Marek Komorowski. I ask the senator to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u101	Your Senate, I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur, Senator Marek Borowski. I remember this February meeting of the committee in which we discussed the amendment of the Rules of Procedure on the draft new Rules of Procedure. At the moment, the draft resolution is already presented at second reading. Then I asked, among other things. on this issue that this proposed regulation refers a little to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. Certain solutions are transferred from the Sejm's Rules of Procedure to the Senate's Rules of Procedure, including among others. Article 2 1 point 5, which Mr Borowski, as Senator rapporteur, has already mentioned here. This is a provision concerning the seats of the clubs and the senate circles in the committee concerned. So far it has been so that the senators have practically not been forced to work on individual committees. The senators, slightly different from the Members of the Sejm, were able, in accordance with their powers and powers, to apply freely to work on individual committees. Well, it hasn't been restricted to this day. In this situation, however, it may happen that it will be as if it were forcing senators to work on individual committees, especially since the wording of the article. 14 provides that the Senior Convention may determine the number of seats in committees. I have already asked this at the committee meeting, and now I will also address this question to the Senator of the rapporteur. Are there any arrangements in this matter yet? Will it be implemented or not? Well, there it is, you can say, seven months after the election. The committees have formed and are working. I didn't see the need to make a difference in this arrangement. It's something on the basis of the situation. I have already suggested at the committee meeting that this provision could enter into force in the new term of office. In turn, it is now necessary to keep committees in the way in which they function today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the senator for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u103	Thank you very much. Yes, I, of course, remember this discussion. That is why this provision is optional in this proposal. The Senior Convention can do that. E.g. in a situation where there is a concentration of senators in certain committees, and in others there are shortages But he doesn't have to. I can't answer the senator's question today if there's anything going on, or if there's any suggestions. As far as I know, there isn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u104	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u105	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'd like to talk about that, too. Please turn on the microphone, Senator. Because something's not working. I, too, would like to ask that question. Well, I understand that it is the Bureau or the marshal who has the authority to determine these parities. And that's what my question is about. What if someone wanted to use that record? Would the senators working in committee X be asked to resign? Would the Senate's resolution deprive them of the possibility of working on a committee? How would that be organized? How would this rule simply work in practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u106	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u107	This matter was discussed, and later, after the meetings of our committee, it was discussed with the Legislative Office. I would like to say that, as rapporteur, of course, I did not talk about this because this was not part of the report, but some clarification of this issue will be made in the form of an amendment that will be tabled today. Since this amendment will then be discussed at the committee's meeting, we will then be able to present in detail what this will look like.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u108	Thank you very much. Senator Michael Sewerinski's question, please. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. My question relates to the announcement by the rapporteur that representatives of non-governmental organisations would be allowed to attend the plenary session of the Senate, not only to attend, if I have understood correctly, but also to speak. We are all familiar with the practice that the representatives of these organisations, especially those interested in view of the subject-matter of the proceedings, are invited, in fact without limitation, to committee meetings. There they speak as many times as they want, actually in an unfettered manner, and present their position. Next, the Senator-rapporteur, presenting the proceedings at the committee meeting, also refers to the positions of those who attended the committee meeting. Was this procedure taken into account at the hearing of the committee that you referred to the senator? And has it been judged inadequate? Since it is proposed that these representatives of non-governmental organisations take part in the Senate meeting, I have not actually heard without numerical limitations. about such and so that they speak. I'm not afraid that they're gonna numerically make us, although sometimes there's not many of us in the courtroom. But isn't it? I'm gonna say it so openly. A democracy that goes too far? Since these people have the right to speak and their position is well-referenced. But wouldn't that have changed the nature of the Senate? Were these aspects considered as possible counter-arguments? Because if they were taken and weighed, then I understand that everything has already been said. Well, just out of curiosity, I'd like to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u110	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u111	Yes... Well, that's obviously debatable. We wanted to meet those who function as state bodies, as well as representatives of the organization. And I would like to say that in the first version, that is, the one that is in the report at the moment... here, the senator, so to speak, is right that the scope of this wording, which is included in the report, could be too broad. Because we wrote here that... just a minute, I'm just gonna check... Here we have written: representatives of other state and local authorities whose statutory tasks concern the matter at issue in the Senate's proceedings. And it has been pointed out to us that a representative of a local authority may be a representative of any council of the municipality which, in such a situation, will have the right to sit here. So, after consulting the Legislative Office, I would like to say that there is also an amendment here that talks about other state bodies and organisations whose statutory tasks... So it has to be an organization, it has to be an organization. The Polish Cities Association or the Rural Union, if we are talking about local government. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Other organisations whose statutory tasks, etc. The statutory scope of tasks means that there is a law concerning the functioning of this organisation specifically. NGOs generally operate on the basis of a single law on non-governmental organisations, but deal with different issues. So what I'm saying is that if this can be further improved, of course, but we absolutely didn't anticipate any non-governmental organisations here at the request of any of them. Absolutely not. There will only be those who will receive the invitation. The question is: how do I put this? This representative, spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises Because it's a spokesman, it's a bill, he's legitimized in the bill, he pointed out that he wouldn't want to wait for an invitation, but when he sees that there's such a bill, he's gonna turn himself in, he's gonna come and that's it. Well, maybe it's too much courtesy on our part, I don't insist, but on the other hand, we wanted to demonstrate a certain openness of the Senate here. Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, I'm just asking. One word, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u112	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u113	Once again, I make sure that there was a right to speak, an invitation to the O.R. with the right to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u114	This is a general provision which already exists and which reads as follows: the right to attend the Senate meetings has the persons mentioned in the article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 - there are listed persons and members of the Sejm Bureau, members of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Court, the Ombudsman, the first President of the Supreme Court. And we are now adding what we add: as well as representatives of other state bodies and organisations whose statutory tasks concern the matter at issue in the Senate. As we know, those previously mentioned persons who have the right to attend Senate meetings also have the right to speak, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u115	Thank you very much. I'm asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I have a few questions and comments, but I'm gonna start with this last one. Our work in the Senate is specific. We don't usually do... Of course, we can be drafters of the bill, then it's a little different, but we usually deal with the documents, the laws that came out of the Sejm. The stage, I'd call it, the first reading is long beyond that text, because it's happening in the Sejm. I could understand the use of this invitation, but there is no invitation here, and this is the right to attend. This is an absolute law, nothing limitless, anyone who meets the conditions of this Article. Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, he will have the right to request entry into the senate room, abstracting on how many seats we have here for the public or for the non-senators, oh, I might say so. And it could be embarrassing. The wording of state and local authorities is very general and, as Mr Marshal said, it can be, for example. representatives of bodies constituting municipalities, and these are more than 2 000 700 in Poland. I don't want to make this absurd, but... The current form of these rules is relatively clear, he's talking about senators, of course about the state of service and the representatives of the aforementioned enumerative constitutional bodies, it's a very narrow group, it's just those bodies that are mentioned in the Constitution. The rest can be invited. In the case of this wording, the rest will have the absolute right to participate in the deliberations with all the benefits of this participation, namely the possibility to speak. Our deliberations will slowly transform... I've seen it on some subjects before. They were politically sound, of course, but the question is whether you can work like this all the time. In fact, the deliberations were transformed into a public hearing, both in committee and in plenary. There's a category. A public hearing may be used as a separate meeting governed by other regulations, other rules, but what else is the Senate's deliberations. And that's the first point that I think is getting this whole thing done. Well, perhaps you'll reflect. I am also speaking here to you who is the representative of the applicants. The changes made in the selection of the marshal are equally serious in qualitative terms. To date, the marshal, the first one, was elected by an absolute majority at the first sitting and the application was made by at least 10 senators. Well, it remained, but the way the marshal was dismissed and the choice of each next one changed. According to the project, each next marshal will be elected by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. It's defined as rigidly.51. 51 votes in favour, if that's the absolute majority of all senators. When the first marshal is appointed it is an absolute majority of votes; in the presence of 51 senators it would be 26, so 26 senators could choose the marshal. These are different sizes. I don't know why we divide marshals into equals and equals. The first will be equal, chosen by a different majority, and each next will be equal. It's not enough to call off the marshal. But also to call it, because there is no longer a calling of itself, it is combined, it is a constructive vote of distrust towards the marshal It takes as many as 34 senators. Well, there used to be 34 to stabilize the function, let's call it that, but now the choice will be at the request of 34 senators and, of course, the appeal will be at the request of 34 senators. Well, if it matters so much... 34 senators of the Senate opposition, or, let's assume, of the PiS, 34 of you. Can there be a third candidate? I'm not saying now that we're gonna be putting out this third candidate, but it's you opposition that's blocking yourself from reaching into deeper personal reserves. Why is it that a certain opposition majority blocks the rest of the opposition's ability to issue a candidate? 34 and 34 is 68, 32 is left. The third road, i.e. The third candidate can't be. It's a matter to think about, but it's because of you, as I say. For me, this record is also a little clumsy, clumsy, so I'd call it, and already these different ruthless majority are... But let's leave it. Next question, third one. The Senior Convention may specify the number of seats available to clubs. It's an art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One, but lips. Two is even better. Namely, if the decision is taken after the appointment of the committee... We're in this state right now, unless we're setting up a new committee, but it's rather rare in the Senate. If there are any movements connected with the division, with the election of new committees, it is done at the beginning of the term of office. Do I understand that you want to revolutionize the committee issue? What's the record for? I could possibly understand, but under certain conditions, about which in a moment, this provision applies at the beginning of the term of office. But in the middle? What if some committee led by someone from the Senate opposition, the PiS, is jumping too much? Sorry about the expression. And you guys aren't doing well, so you're changing the voting schedule on the committee? I mean, you're gonna change the number of senators on the committee, and since there's gonna be another number of senators on the committee right now, you're gonna solve this committee? Is that it? Well, say it straight. Mr. Senator, just... Okay, fourth question... No, I know... I'd like to suggest to the senator that maybe now the senator will answer these questions, and then, if you have any further questions... Okay, I'm just gonna finish this. Okay, okay. I'll finish the thought. Namely, it is about these powers of the Senior Convention. In my opinion, if that's possible, it's at the beginning of the term. Where are the criteria for this? How will the number of clubs and wheels be determined? We have no division into large, small, medium-sized committees, as it is in the Sejm. Where are the criteria? Is it just gonna be just like that? For now, these four issues, and if you answer the Marshal, we'll continue.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u117	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u118	Thank you. Well, as it is for now, it sounds good... Mr. Senator, as regards the subject raised by Senator Sewerinski, which you continued on on this subject, I would stress once again that the words about local authorities... There will be a proposal to change that, leave a record of state bodies and organizations whose statutory scope... So this will definitely reduce this scope, because here it will require a law above all. I don't think there's any doubt at all about the state authorities. On the other hand, organizations whose statutory tasks... Well, they have to have a certain statutory scope. It is only then that they are allowed to take part in the meeting. I stress once again: in the event of such a change, I personally do not see the danger in this respect that there will be some crowds here, but, as I said, we can always leave it as it is, and that's it. But it is the other senators who will speak on this issue, at the committee meeting, and then in the vote. About the vocation, the appeal... We adopted a very simple structure, i.e. a constructive vote of mistrust. And that's it. The appointment is done as it has been so far. What's the difference? Well, the fact that at the moment when the Senate is elected and formed, the criteria for the appointment of a marshal should be a little milder, so, a little milder, because the point is that there should be no stalemate and that the marshal should be called to make the Senate function. And that's why there's gonna be a ruthless majority of voters in front of at least half of them... But if this marshal is already here and there's a concept to call him off, then, of course, it's just that it's about not to happen in such a situation that the marshal will cancel, but another one won't be called back, because there's going to be a division of views between the senators. Of course, in a situation where there are 2 strong blocks here, one can rather expect that he will be called up, well, the one who cancels him has the majority, so he will. But this is a recipe that... Besides, I do not know how the situation will develop in this term of office, but this is generally also a provision for the future. If there are a few factions here after the next election, which will not be identical at all and will be in some opposition to each other, then in the case of an attempt to cancel the marshal, it may succeed, because he will not like 51 senators, and already the candidate who will be drawn up later by the subsequent factions will be pleased only e.g. 15 senators. So I don't see any significant problem here. About the committees... No revolution, Mr. Senator, it's not a revolution, no one is preparing a revolution here. The suspicion that this is how you want to change the presidents of the Senate minority where they are presidents, in these commissions, I dismiss as suspicions... Premature. No, not premature, but unworthy, unworthy. I would add, by the way, that if the majority wanted to deprive one of their fellow Senators of the PiS presidency on the basis of the current rules, for example. a request for termination of such a committee What is possible, permitted under the current rules of procedure and for the appointment of some other slightly different name. Notabene such practices I know from the Sejm. So I assure you, nothing like this is going to happen. And why, why, I've already explained that by answering the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u119	Thank you very much. I have a question: will the senator want to continue? I'll tell you why I'm asking. Well, you asked for a two-hour break from 1:30 p.m., and I think one more question may be asked before the break. Which is why I'm asking you if you're going to continue or if Senator Jackowski is going to ask you a question. This is Senator Jackowski, and I'm just... And you're doing well. Good. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u120	Thank you very much, Marshal. In this way I became the beneficiary of the situation, this break. Well, it's such a nice event today. I'm going back to the point. Well, Mr. Marshall, I'm addressing Senator Borowski. In the current practice of Senate X of the term of office, were there any situations that would indicate that there is instability in the Senate Bureau regarding the position of Marshal of the Senate? I am talking about what was going on in the Senate, I am not talking about the political comments and discussions that are being held on this subject in the media space. Were there any situations that would justify such anchoring of the position of the Senate Marshal? It's like we're in a situation, I don't know, some community council. There are municipal councils for which every meeting, which is the session of the commune council, are personal requests, requests for appeal of the chairman or vice-president of the council, it is such a permanent element, especially where there are high political tensions, where there are very equal forces and constantly changing majoritys, which arise at once. We in the Senate are absolutely not experiencing this at the moment. So what is the philosophy, what is the reason for such anchoring to enter into the regulations? As far as I can remember, there were no such situations in the past, in past terms, in the renovated after 1989. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u121	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, this is simply rational action for the future. When we change the rules, such a change seems rational, I stress, in the future, not for the nearest future, in a month, in two months, in a year or in two years, but generally for the future. For many years, the Senate, the shape of the Senate, the internal shape of the Senate, you admit, you were different from today, there was a decisive division here in terms of political options. These elections have shown that this is not necessarily the case in the future. It's the first time we've seen it. It doesn't have to be that way in the future. If it's settled now, for example. After the next election, it will work. But if we don't settle this now, and after the next election there will be the division I was talking about, then no one will make such a change, and perhaps it will threaten some destabilization of the Senate, and this, Mr. Senator, we as senators already experienced, you even more than I do, I think we would like to avoid.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u123	Thank you very much. A message will be read before the interruption is ordered.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Senators! Meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of the application submitted at the 11th Senate meeting to the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by natural persons and certain other laws, Senate print No 111, will be held today at 15.00 in room No. 176/179. Very... Mrs. Marshal, I'm sorry, there was no communication, and at 2.30 p.m. there will be a meeting of the Legislative Commission together... That's what a friend of mine is gonna read because... Good, 'cause I thought it was... I'm asking your secretary to read... All I can do is repeat because I don't have that message written. Well, the meeting of the Legislative Commission... And the Human Rights Committee. ...and the Human Rights Committee will be held today at 2.30 p.m. in the plenary room.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u125	Thank you very much. I'm ordering a two-hour recess, which means a recess until 3:30. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 13 minutes 30 to 16 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u126	I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of draft resolutions on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Before the session was interrupted, the committee's report on the resolution under consideration was presented and the senators had the opportunity to ask questions to the rapporteur of the committee, Senator Mark Borowski, and the representative of the applicants, Senator Krzysztof Słoni. Do any of you senators have any more questions for the rapporteur or the representative of the applicants? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the second time, but the questions on this project are unfortunately a lot and they all come from a certain I do not know what to call this "manner," which is visible in this project, which means that in addition to the right things, which correct certain shortcomings of the regulations or meet the needs highlighted recently, certain provisions are introduced, whose destiny is not properly known. These are to be provisions that are supposed to serve in the future if something bad happens. That's what I understand from Senator Borowski, who represents a group of applicants. Hence the next questions. First related to Article. 1, with the following Article: 6a, which states that if more than 1 application for cancellation of the Marshal of the Senate is submitted, which is likely, of course, because if the Marshal is evil, it may happen that more than 1 group of senators will find that he is wrong in carrying out his duties Then they are voted on... then they are dealt with together, but they are voted on separately, and here the curiosity, according to the order of submission, means the element of time is introduced. I'll admit, I don't know how to write a rulebook that introduces an element of time. Maybe I'm wrong. Well, the most logical thing would be if two proposals were tabled, setting the order of voting, e.g. depending on how many senators have signed the application. If more, it should be the first vote, if less, in second place, i.e. this proposal should be voted second. Where did this time element come from? Is it just like that, I'd call it from a cloud? And a second question related to it, equally interesting and important. This is the case: can a senator who signed a single motion for cancellation of a marshal, please remind me, sign the second application? This is a situation where he wants the marshal's appeal, but he doesn't really know, he doesn't have specific views on who should be in his place, or at least he hasn't thought about it yet. Can the senator sign two different applications? Next question. It, in my opinion, has a very serious character and I would ask here, if it is possible, of course, at least for a substitute of opinion of a person... maybe a legislator, maybe a constitutionalist. It is a question of the amended Article. 14, which gives the Senior Convention the opportunity to determine the number of seats available in individual committees to clubs and senate circles without any criteria, because this needs to be made clear, because there is no such place. proportionality criterion. So, theoretically, it can be determined inversely: when a wheel has 3 senators, it can have 3 candidates for committee, and when a club has 48 senators, it can also have 3 candidates. That, of course, will be a criterion. In any case, as I say, the criteria are not specified here. But the lips are extremely interesting. 2 of this article, namely, it orders the resolution of a committee that already exists... As I said, committees are generally set up at the beginning of their term of office, and each of us has been through it. However, let us assume that in the middle of the term of office or after 1 year of rule, the majority who has mastered the Senior Convention states: well, these committees, it is not important whether it is because of the chairman or for any other reason, they may meet too often, maybe too rarely... And here's the thing: these committees must have a different composition, we at the convention are saying that it should be done anyway. And the committees are to be dissolved. Someone might say, "Well, well, the convention is in control." It's not that simple, ladies and gentlemen, because art. 124 of the Constitution says: "To the Senate the regulations apply accordingly... And here is, among other things. Article 2 110 and the same Article. 110 in the paragraph. 3 states: The Sejm shall appoint standing committees and may set up extraordinary committees. So if you read both articles together, it would appear that the Senate is setting up permanent committees and can set up extraordinary committees. So it can't be that, if the Seym e.g. At the beginning of his term of office he will set up a standing committee, some group For the record, the Senior Convention, as far as I know, is not in the Constitution. A group of very good people, from the Senate, led to the resolution of the committee. Unless I'm wrong. Yeah, but you're the Marshal Borowski who's gonna explain. And here's the last thing. I think we've talked about her before, but I'm gonna talk about her a little bit more. Attempting to set up a blockade for 45 days as to the possibility of choosing a new marshal after the previous vote, which the marshal did not cancel, that is, blocking the possibility of recalling the marshal. It wasn't in our regulations before. I don't know what happened, that we have to do something like this. What's the ratio legis? Because apart from the fact that we're creating something, there's got to be a reason. What happened to our deliberations... Have we tried calling off the marshal many times? Every week or every month? It wasn't like that. Why are such regulations introduced? What are they meant to do? These are questions, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u128	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u129	Thank you very much. First, I'm gonna answer that order. If more than one application is submitted, then proposals shall be put to the vote separately, in the order in which they are submitted. Senator Czerwiński wonders why according to the order of submission. Well, because there are different methods here to determine this order. One method is the method according to the order of folding. There might be another way. The senator can make an amendment. I'll be honest with you, this recipe didn't pay any special attention to me, actually, in connection with that passage. I'm thinking out loud right now, but if you were. accept, as the senator said, that it would depend on how many senators signed up for the candidacy, that we would immediately have to extend this provision and define a solution to the situation where the same number of senators signed up for both applications. Then there would have to be another paragraph: if the same number of senators had signed, then... Plus, I don't want to joke around here anymore, 'cause you could joke about it, but it's not worth it. That is why I believe that this is a good solution in order, and it does not matter that you have to have an absolute majority to choose from a marshal, so probably only one candidate will have this absolute majority. If they report the first one who doesn't have the majority, he'll be gone and the second one will have the majority. Now, the subject that the senator also discussed at the committee's meeting concerning a constructive vote. If there's a constructive vote and you have to name a marshal candidate, and there's a senator who wants to cancel the marshal because he doesn't like the marshal, but he doesn't know who he likes... Well, that's what it comes down to. I'm very sorry for this senator, and he's gonna have to deal with it, and there's no advice, which is either he won't sign an appeal, or he's gonna sign up and sign up for a proposal for a new candidate. Well, that's the principle of constructive votion, and there's nothing we can do about it. Mr. Marshal, but that's exactly what I'm saying. Maybe you could sign two applications? I'm asking for a clear answer. She's simple. No weirdness. Under two motions? I think we have a recipe somewhere that... there's still a recipe that says the senator can only sign under as many candidates as he chooses. So if you choose one, it can sign under one. If you choose two, maybe under two. I mean, I'm not talking about marshals, because two marshals aren't going, but we have situations like this. we choose 2 people or even 3 people, and then it can sign up for the same number of candidates, which is respectively larger. It's in the rules. Now, about the criteria for the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the Senate is so constructed that if we wanted to adopt so closely e.g. proportional criteria, at least the wheel wouldn't fit anywhere. They're three people, so for a good cause, it couldn't be represented anywhere. So I think we need to be reasonable here. It's not like anybody's gonna do any machinations around here. And if he does it, it's gonna be a public secret, I mean, everyone's gonna know that something like this is happening. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no. Senator, that's not really what this is about. Now it's the resolution of the committee. You referred to the constitution here, et cetera. Well, the constitution is about setting up a committee. The setting up of committees also means that these committees may be cancelled, may be terminated. Well, that's the authority, it's the rules. As far as the Senate is concerned, there have probably been some changes, but for example. In the Sejm, something happened at times that some committees were liquidated, merged, extended, given other names, and, of course, changed their composition, etc., etc., etc. And as far as the procedure itself is concerned, it is precisely described here. There is no gap between the functioning of the panel and the committee set up. The Commission shall act until the Senate appoints a new committee. Well, a new committee with the same name, but, let's say, in a different composition. So there's no problem here. About the mouth. 3, 4 and 5, i.e. the issue of a maximum of 45 days for the marshal's appeal after the application is filed, that there's some kind of blockage, etc... All I can say is that the senator... As I said, it's been a while since we've been working on this resolution, and so there's been new observations, and a new situation, so we've made some amendments that we're going to make. There's one I was talking about. This is the issue of the right to attend Senate meetings. But it's there, for example. Such an amendment is quite formal, connected with the fact that the Senate has been deprived of the right to approve the President of the Office of Electronic Regulations elected by the Sejm... I think that's what it's called. It's still in our rule book, so we're gonna have to cross it out. It's obvious. Besides, in these amendments there are among others. One that concerns the subject that you raised, because we also listen to those critical voices that were there. But the senator's gonna talk about it here... I don't want to take this case away from Senator Rybicki. He's gonna talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u130	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My question concerns print number 48, and I would therefore like to refer it to Senator Krzysztof Elephant's applicant. Mr Senator, this project, which contains 1 article and is an initiative of the Senators' Group of Law and Justice, concerns the possibility of determining the membership of the Senate Bureau in proportion to the number of senate clubs. I would like to ask 'cause many times in the High House there have been such accusations against the Lower House that for weeks, even months, he has been holding some draft resolutions and laws 'how long have we waited for this resolution to be examined.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u132	May I? Thank you very much. Thank you for that question. I expected questions about this printing, I kept it in my archive because that's how to describe it. He's dated January 16, 2020, so to speak, he's a bit slim. This printing didn't actually revolutionize either... this proposed change didn't revolutionize. And following Mr. Marshal Borowski's mindset, we wanted more to adapt the situation in the Senate to the result of the election, because for the first time in some time the Senate has this structure. And in our opinion, this structure is not reflected in the Senate Bureau, because a representative of 48 senators and, which is easy to count, exactly 48% of the Senate membership, represents only 20% of the population. The bureau's composition. After all, it was not only the Senate's term of office that we wanted to give the possibility that, in a situation where smaller circles, clubs would be able to select and elect their representative as vice-marshal to the Senate Bureau, also those clubs which have almost half the Senate membership, could be properly represented in this bureau. And we made such a proposal to increase the number of Vice-Marshals to 5 in our regulations. Unfortunately, at the meeting of the Joint Committees, this solution was not supported, although it would actually order the picture of the Senate Bureau as a body that should reflect the distribution of forces and the number of individual clubs and senators. Unfortunately, this project was not adopted. And to answer your question strictly: this printing is dated January 16th, and so it was a bit of a layover. Although, to be precise, it is important to say that the committee was responsible for this printing on March 10th. But this is also quite a delay if you take into account that issues relating to the functioning of the Senate should be settled as soon as possible after the elections and after the formation of the Senate bodies, so that the Senate can work in the new term in accordance with certain logical and appropriate rules corresponding to the number of individual Senate clubs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u133	You're asking Senator Szejnfeld in room 182. I don't think he's here. There isn't. Oh, there's someone, but... Is it? I think he's in the O.R. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Does Senator Szejnfeld want to ask you a question? We've got him on the list. Mr. Marshal, I didn't ask questions, so this is a mistake. Someone played a trick on you and put you on the list. However, I cordially greet you, working remotely, all working in the sitting room. Thank you so much for your love. Then you ask Senator Alexander Swed in the plenary room.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u134	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask you a question, sir, if you don't mind. As we know, it's been almost half a year. I would like to ask if we know what is the reason for the fact that the initiative of the Senators of Law and Justice is kind of hooked up here and we are considering it together with the initiative of printing 72, which is the initiative of the Civic Coalition Senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u135	You're welcome, Senator, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u136	If two or more projects concern the same topic The subject here is the rules of procedure. They may be considered together, with the agreement of the committee. And that's how it happened, I mean. The committee voted that they would be considered together, i.e. 1 report. And there's one thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u137	Thank you very much. Would Senator Elephant like to answer, too? I think the question was addressed to him, but I didn't want to interrupt.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u138	I'm actually confirming what Marshal Borowski said. There is such a possibility that prints on similar issues should be considered at the same committee meetings and the report on the work should be one. That's just unfortunate for print number 48, it's next to the print that you're presenting to Marshal Borowski... This printing was practically accepted by the majority of the committee, while the printing I presented did not find recognition in the eyes of the senators and this draft amendment to the Rules of Procedure was rejected, but according to the Rules of Procedure is also the subject of a second reading meeting and discussion today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u139	Thank you very much. There are no more calls... No, it is. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u140	I have a question for you, Marshal Borowski. These changes related to the selection of the marshal introduce certain time regulations. In your opinion, does the Marshal's deadline, at least seven days, in which an application for a marshal's appeal may be submitted, or a 45-day period after which further applications may be submitted, not be such a buffer that allows the decision of a group of senators who have made such a request to be quite artificially affected? Could it be time to try to influence senators' decisions on how to vote when such a proposal is presented? It kind of conflicts with the Senate's image as a place where the marshal is only the first of the equals, because thanks to regulations such as the one we are proceding today, the marshal becomes a person who grows above this equal level and becomes much more difficult, often justified, to dismiss the marshal. Senators should be able to act more effectively, as has been the case so far, and to act unambiguously in these situations. The presentation that your marshal is presenting at the moment, unfortunately makes the marshal a person whose appeal may be artificially difficult. The second question is whether the Marshal met in parliamentary practice with the situation that there is such a far-reaching interference in the free mandate of a parliamentarian, and it is the decisions of the Senior Convention backed by some arrangement with clubs. And these will be forced arrangements and clubs will have to act under some pressure from the decision of the convention. And this concerns the free choice of the committee on which the senator would like to sit, in which he would like to work. Aren't such regulations too much intruding in the exercise of a free mandate?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u141	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u142	Thank you. About the other thing... The senator's asking if I've met with it somewhere. I'll say it's pretty close, 'cause it's in the Seym. And as far as case one is concerned, the senator has developed the question of Senator Czerwinski. I replied that because this matter was discussed quite long and critically during the committee meeting, I was wondering with the applicants how well this criticism was justified, and I have already said that Senator Rybicki will have something to say about it. I hope that pleases the senator. Even if you could address my concerns about my free mandate... Okay, but a free ticket doesn't mean that the senator isn't bound by election instructions. Okay, then. But when it comes to regulating internal affairs in the Senate, that's the rule of law. I don't see a collision with a free mandate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u143	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Senator Swede. Good. Keep your messages clear. [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u144	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm not gonna extort you. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to address my question to you. It's about print number 48. You used to talk about common sense when you were talking about something. I would like to ask if the solution proposed in print 48, where we provide some representation, because the law and justice club counts 48 senators in the Senate, and there are circles that count 2 senators and 3 senators, they have Vice Marshals... Would common sense be a good way to change that article that's in print number 48? Isn't that a good solution for common sense?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u145	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u146	Of course, it can be said that common sense is based on certain criteria. In our Senate, we have adopted such a principle that... it happens that there are smaller groups here, i.e. It is near PSL, Kukiz, 15 and there is, well, not even a wheel, and two senators representing the Left, but they are part of parliamentary clubs, so we thought they should have such representation. Well, there's one wheel of independent senators. Together it makes a five-person bureau, with a marshal, the Vice-Marshals are four, and we thought it was a sufficient number, you can say that everyone has their representation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u147	Thank you. I don't hear any more questions. I'm handing over the proceedings of your marshal. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u148	Then I'll open the discussion. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries, and the senators of the sitting remotely. - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. On this item, the agenda for speeches in the discussion included... So far, the list includes 3 senators: Senator Marek Komorowski, Senator Sławomir Rybicki and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Komorowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! We are considering a point on amending the Senate's Rules of Procedure, and the next item is another amendment to the Senate's Rules of Procedure. I listened to this whole discussion, the questions asked and all the threads and earlier statements of Senator Marek Borowski, who said that the Senate was the place It's been said a lot of times. The discussion, even harsh but parliamentary, and that is a place where you can argue and talk about certain threads. This revision of the Senate's Rules of Procedure... After all, Senator Borowski mentioned that he remembered this discussion from the committee meeting held in February, and that all the arguments that had been made there are, of course, timely and important. He said he wasn't here as if he were. I'm going to start with this change in the committee that's been talked about here a lot. No plans, no attempts to assassinate when it comes to changing committees. Well, I'd say that, Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator. Although these are no longer questions for you, I will say this in the course of this discussion. After your actions you will know them, that is, after what the Senior Convention will eventually do in this matter. Because today I would maintain this position, which I presented and in the questions asked, and in the discussion at the committee meeting, that I do not see any reason to change committees. And yet you mentioned there was going to be a change in procedure. Procedure in Article Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 is clear and quite harsh, because the creation of a new committee in a new composition results in the dissolution of the previous committee. If that were the case, if the shuttle went one way, it could practically turn all the Senate committees. I hope, in fact, that, as you said, there are no such plans in the Seniors Convention and that there will be those committees that are today. Are they working well? I didn't notice any comments. Senators work on these committees. My opinion expressed in this speech in the discussion is to leave it as it is today, not to make any changes. But like I said, you'll get to know them by your actions, and the senator assured me that there were no such intentions. As regards the case of the selection of the marshal and the appeal of the marshal, the amendment of the article. 6... Well, ladies and gentlemen, so far it's been 34 senators, just as it is now, only with the slight difference that 34 senators and everything were enough to request the marshal's cancellation. It was simply enough as if the 1st application and the other senators did not have to wonder whether to sign or not to sign. And at the moment, the following Article is inserted: 6a, which makes you name a candidate for a new marshal. And then you get the problem that in fact these new candidates can only be 2, because 34 plus 34 is 68. Unless we take the rule that you can sign, like in the election of candidates for different bodies... You can sign the application for practically any candidate. You know, you only vote for one after that. I didn't find it here... Mr. Marshal Borowski said there's probably a record here somewhere that states that you can only sign one application, under the number of applications, how many candidates are selected. One marshal is selected, so you can sign one application. I quickly transferred the Senate's Rules of Procedure, but I couldn't find a record like that. So I have doubts as to whether this is really the case, whether it would not be the correct interpretation, that in such a arrangement it is possible to sign a few proposals, and only in the vote to indicate which candidate for a new marshal would be put to the vote. There are more doubts about the rules. There is also such a question and such doubts as to whether these are the last changes, but whether we will be working on some general revision of the Senate's rules of operation. The next item is the introduction of a remote vote at committee meetings. This is probably, it seems, a movement in the right direction, because someone who is in a remote meeting is far from Warsaw and there is no possibility, if the meetings are previously convened, to attend a committee meeting. Allowance... This is true of the next point. Here you use the interesting tactics of Senator Pociej, who yesterday and today, as I noticed, was in committee meetings and already at the Senate meeting was remotely. Well, but he lives in Warsaw, so he has the possibility. Others, who live outside Warsaw, have virtually no such possibility. And it would be good to regulate this matter in a uniform way by now. It is so much doubt about the amended regulations and all the rules that are proposed in this printing, as well as I've been saying that a little bit. In print from the next point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u150	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u151	High Senate! Literally a few reflections, a few sentences in relation to these previous speeches, to the statements of President Elephant, whom I very much respect and with whom I have praised myself in my next term of office. Well, I can't agree that changes to the rules should take place at the beginning of the term of office. They should take place when it is necessary or, as in the case of remote meetings, when this requires an objective situation, completely independent of our work plan or the Senate Rules of Procedure, which is a value in itself. Sloppy action is never, or is not always adequate. I would like to remind you that in the previous term the rules have been amended several times, not only at the beginning of the term of office, but also under the influence of more or less legitimate needs. Some changes were influenced by political impulses, by the momentum of the moment, such as the abolition of secret ballots. We know exactly what the consequences are. And not all of these effects were able to predict. But it was done instantly, under some external pressure, I think. Or changes that may have shaken the House's autonomy a little bit. I mean, when we move solutions alive from the Sejm's Rules of Procedure or from events in the Sejm that have consequences for us... I will remind you of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure concerning the order of powers and disciplinary powers of the Marshal of the Senate. They haven't been used in the Senate so far, as I recall. And I hope they never stay. Therefore, such a formula, which are the decisions of the Sejm, is not always adequate and necessary in the case of regulatory solutions, which we decide together. And one more word on the free mandate in the context of restrictions on senators' rights and the work of the committee. Of course, this change we are proposing will not directly restrict the right to sit on committee. She's a solution that will give you an opportunity. So it's going to be that the convention might, but it doesn't have to. It's probably calculated, and it's even calculated for situations like this when it's reported to committee. It is to be imagined, e.g. 50 or 70 senators. Of course, they have the right to do so. But would this not affect the quality of the work of the other committees? Well, I think she might have had some influence, because here math indicates that you'd need those forces, assets, skills and powers of the senators to decompose. to work in all committees. But, as I'm saying, this is about the convention's power, not the automatic decision to change the size and personnel composition of the committee. I wouldn't reach the Seym's standards here either, because there is a division between large, medium and small committees in the Seym, but there is also a compromise between clubs established from many terms of office. Finally, the last point is an amendment that I am about to make, which is the answer to the debate held and in the Senate, and beyond, on whether or not such time limits I'm not hiding that... and I'm not going to say that it was taken directly from the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, but somehow it was taken. I submit an amendment which will delete paragraphs 4 and 5 of this draft resolution in Article. 6a. It shall refer to the examination of the application and put it to a vote, which shall take place at the next Senate meeting 7 days after the date of its submission, but no later than 45 days after the date of submission of the application. In turn, in point 5, the following is the proposal referred to in paragraph 5. 1, may be notified not earlier than 3 months after the date on which the previous proposal is put to the vote, unless at least 51 senators present with it. I am making an amendment, Mrs Marshal, to remove these two provisions from the draft resolution. At the same time, I request that the joint committees of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs be appointed for the purpose of carrying out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u152	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor in the discussion by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, because Senator Jackowski is not here yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The examination of the rules of procedure of an institution should in a sense be automatic situations or activities. Let us consider what is the case with this amendment of the Rules of Procedure. What's new, and what are we changing? There are rules here which are, I would call it so, forced by external factors, these are e.g. those for the appointment of a representative or a member of the State Commission for the purpose of clarifying cases of action against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. It's a pretty complicated name, but we know what's going on. We should do it. By the way, we're doing a little late. We can make some of the blame for this for the pandemic. But in a way, public opinion demands that such a committee should already operate. Okay, well, those regulations should be added, and I'm sure nobody's gonna go against them, and they're gonna go against them. And, of course, there are rules that, in a way... Well, maybe they haven't aged as long as some cases aren't provided for, so they need to be clarified, detailed, possibly supplemented by some provisions. But then it is very easy to defend such a rule, stating at which point it did not function, at which point it caused some problems in application, the necessity of interpretation, etc. We'd probably agree to that without any problems. Yeah, but there are two other types of rules here. Well... Actually, it doesn't have one of those categories. We've got a weird print, that's 48/72 S. Print No. 48 was, let me remind you, the proposal of the Senators of Law and Justice may not be healed, but to bring a certain logic to the membership of the Senate Bureau in relation to the number of senators who sit in individual factions, in individual clubs... Maybe not factions, but clubs. Well, it's not normal, ladies and gentlemen, that two people have the same representation as 48 people or that the circle has the same representation as 48 people in the club. Someone might say, at least theoretically: but these are different parliamentary clubs. And that's where the answer came from. So, as I'm saying, you can assume that different groups of views... different groups of people presenting certain categories of views. Theoretically, that's the answer. Okay, but this is the Senate. Sejm views, of course, are influenced, but they should only be influenced by the texts of the laws which the Sejm on the views in question presents to us about the political composition. The Senate doesn't have to have the same squad. The Senate shouldn't have one because he's otherwise appointed. Let me remind you that the Senate elections are not proportional, as they are to the Sejm. It's a historical event, but it does matter. That's one thing. Secondly, these are one-mandate elections in which autonomy Let's call it The candidates are slightly larger than autonomy in the case of elections to the Sejm, where there are lists. And thirdly, we should rather be glad that this senate composition is different from that of the Seym in the sense that it reflects a slightly different range of views, but it should also be represented in the bureau. So, in this one case, at least in part, I think that the attempt to transfer the Sejm to the Senators' squad or to the Senators' representation in the Presidium is far from logically correct. You can't explain it like that. You can try, there was a test here, but I don't think it's possible. That was the third category. And there's a fourth category of law, I would call it, at first glance, incomprehensible. What are they for? There is a translation, it was represented here after a series of questions: it can be useful for the future. Well, if this were to be the case, then the rules could be more extensive than the Bible, because there are a lot of different cases that can happen in this House in the future. Do we have to create the whole procedure for each of the possible future cases? No, we don't. Besides, the fact that Senator Rybicki's amendment, President Rybicki, found herself, as I understand it, officially is already there, indicates that. These are unnecessary regulations at first glance, because they may be necessary in situations, say, critical, when you try to determine, harden the state, I would call it, a solid majority. Someone might say, but most of them are stable. She's stable because she's still on the basis of the old rules, please note that she's unshakable as long as she doesn't change her views. And here we go a little further, and we try to plot it, harden it, prevent changes, even when changing our views. Someone's gonna say, okay, that's the way it is, most people are always right. But most of them change, too. Please keep in mind that we have such a thing for you. I'm sorry. We didn't do any routine tricks. We used the usual senate majority. That's how I'd put it. In your previous term, and you're not able to stop at your usual majority, you're still trying to figure out the senate procedure. Well, how else can you call these terms here if you're not just trying to figure it out? You're pulling out of this. Very good. But how else, if not conspiring, one can call it that one marshal, the one elected at the beginning of his term of office, is elected by an absolute majority of the senators present in the Chamber. By default, it can be elected by 26 votes and every next marshal must have an absolute majority of the Senate's statutory vote, 51? What's the difference between these marshals? That's a hoax. There is no substantive justification for this. Well, you can make it up, paper will take it all. And already very interesting was the interpretation... Because the question was right. I'm not worried about us, because we can handle it, we've got 48 senators, but it's about the part of the current Senate majority that's gonna cut you off during your term of office, and you're gonna try to block the possibility of separating that part. Because it is 34 senators that are needed and there can be only 2 candidates: either yours, or those currently 51 senators, or ours, or those 48. Because 34 plus 34, the third candidate can't be anymore. So in the interest of the part that doesn't want to be ruled, let's assume, let's ask, can we sign two applications? Senator Borowski, rightly so, said he could not, because in his mouth. Article 2 93 is entered in the entry: The Senator can support at most as many candidates as there are places to fill. This has nothing to do with the conclusion, because it is to give support, i.e. to vote, and secondly, to the same Article. 93 is included in the section on the selection and approval of the appointment of other external bodies such as the President of NIK, the President of IPN, the President of UKE, the Ombudsman I'm not gonna name them all here. Not an internal body which is appointed only by senators. There's an art for me. 14. After the changes he leads to such a situation that... at first we choose, you know, the bureau, the Senate marshal, the Vice-Marshals, and then everyone joins the committee. So far, there's been no problem, at least I haven't heard of them. Maybe there were... But where were they taken care of? In clubs or in circles, in political representation. And here we ask, because we will also ask, although we are supposed to vote against... PiS asks that representatives of the convention, i.e. people from another political option, help us to do this. They are the ones who are going to help us decide how we want our members on individual committees to be deployed. This is the autonomy of the senator's mandate and independence? Someone will say: of course, the point is that it is independent of the direct pressure of voters on whom it is dependent during the elections. All the more so should not be dependent on colleagues from the Senate who have different views and want to influence his work on individual committees, on the work of a senator who does not have the same political views, is from another circle, from another club or is not associated at all. This is a full democracy? Because the lips on that side are always full of democracy. This has nothing to do with democracy. Incidentally, the committees are set up, please see that this resolution enters into force immediately. This article shall apply to the committees which have now been set up, i.e. to the past, practically a year ago. You can solve these committees because that's what a convention wants, a group of people with different political views. That's obstruction of discussion. That's obstruction of political action. We are here beautifully different, this chamber of reflection and reflection. Pride and reflect, so that you do not express it in the Senate. This is the pride and reflection you think. These laws don't defend themselves in any way. As I said, when there were problems regarding the appointment of a committee, excess or incompetence, it was settled by senate clubs or senate circles accordingly. And now it turns out you're trying to help us. We don't want that kind of help, we'll be fine. And this is interference in our rights as Senators of the Republic of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u154	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u155	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention in my speech to three aspects of the proposed amendments to the Senate Rules of Procedure. The first thing I asked was also when I asked questions. It is a matter of restricting the right of senators to sit on those committees where they feel best. Well, it was a tradition that lasted in the Senate. I will remind you that once in the Senate there was a possibility that the senator, who for some reason wanted to take part in the work of the 3rd commission, would be able to participate in them with the permission of the Marshal. Sometimes it was justified. This depended on the shape and profile of the various committees, because sometimes things have become confusing, and someone, whether it was an expert, whether he was legitimizing himself with a great deal of knowledge and experience in a given area of issues in the field of view of such a committee. At the moment, we have committees that came into being after the election on October 13th, and I didn't hear there were any problems with the committee's work. Well, there are committees where Law and Justice have a slight advantage, but in the vast majority of committees, a coalition that creates a Senate majority has a greater advantage. And that goes for a lot of committees. So I don't see any problem here, if I'm looking from this point of view. There is a question about the Legislative Commission. This is a special committee. She is special for several reasons, among others. Because this is the committee that works the most. This is a committee that... If we looked at the statistics of the meetings, we would see that this is the committee burdened with the greatest work. 50% or 40% draft laws and resolutions I don't wanna play interest-counting here anymore. It shall pass through the Legislative Commission. So, by force, this committee is bigger, but also in this committee, the majority of the Senate has a majority. So that I don't see any reasons here either, let's call it political. I don't see any obstruction on this committee either. Because I would still understand if there were some systemic obstructions in the committees and for this reason, in order to improve the work of the committee, there were changes in the rules. I don't really imagine now that these senators who are already working on a committee and have some experience, as a result of arbitrary decisions, are suddenly to stop working on this committee. I think that this will just divide us and make things worse for the senate work, which is why I call on the ruling majority to think about this and these issues. In my opinion, these changes to the rules... I share the view of Senator Czerwiński, who said that there is no justification for such changes in the current practice of the 10th Senate term. Similarly, with a question to Marshal Borowski about strengthening the position of Marshal as a Senate body. In fact, Senator Czerwinski calculated it well. Theoretically, there may be a marshal with the support of 26 senators, elected at the beginning of his term of office, and then every next marshal must have the support of 51 senators, because an absolute statutory majority, the Senate membership must be elected. I'm not convinced by Mr. Marshal Borowski's arguments that it's such an anchor, we don't know what's going to happen in the future... Well, we don't know what's going to happen, and it's impossible to describe all the situations. The rules in this form that we have today are the collective wisdom of the senators, including our predecessors, the senators of the previous term, a set of procedures worked out and a reflection of a certain style of work of the Senate. This may be criticised for some reason, but it must be said that as far as the level of our substantive work is concerned, the Senate is generally highly rated. There are no shortcomings in the work of the Senate, regardless of who has the majority in the Senate and who is the marshal at the moment. These unnecessary concerns, what would happen if it happened that, I don't know, at every meeting there was a motion to dismiss a marshal, there was some sensation, running, etc... There's no such thing. I don't remember it happening during this ten-term term that the marshal is being called off by the senators. Well, there have been changes in marshals, but it wasn't like... I don't recall, maybe senior senators, colleagues remember that. Marshal is a very prestigious function, very important This is the third person in the country And generally quite stable. The fact that this is an exceptional term, because the majority of the Seym is not reflected in the majority of the Senate... This is the first time it's happened formally, but not quite so, because during the 2005-2007 term the PiS had, as I recall, probably 48 senators and some coalitionists had this majority. It was the same, Mr. Marshal, at the time of AWS. Then the Senators of the AWS along with the Senators of the ROP Senator Gogacz is here, who was in the Polish Redevelopment Movement at the time. So it wasn't one political group that had an absolute majority in the Senate. So some signals, maybe not as spectacular as they are now, have happened in the past. I don't think there's any need for this regulation. And the last thing that comes with these two. High Izbo, there is a proposal to introduce a way of selecting members of the State Pedophilia Committee. If we look at the September bill last year, This date is important, it seems that the law was passed in September. So 60 senators have to support the candidate in the first vote. A similar mechanism is in the case of the election of three members of the committees which the Sejm elects. The Sejm shall elect these three members by a majority of 3/5 votes. Another situation is the appointment of the President, the President of the Council of Ministers and the Ombudsman of the rights of the child; this is the 7-member committee. We are slowly entering a situation where such votes will, however, require some cooperation over coalition divisions. The opposition or the majority opposition in the Senate The government camp in opposition in the Senate. So I would encourage you here to try to build a good atmosphere. Yesterday, in this Chamber, we witnessed that we could, for example, find common solutions on the occasion of electoral ordination. Not in everything, but common solutions could be found. I would encourage that the work in the Senate of this particular tenth term should not take place in the atmosphere of confrontation, only in the atmosphere of dialogue, substantive discussion, in accordance with the procedures, regulations and solutions developed over the years, which are reflected in the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u157	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will only add a few sentences, because 2 of the 3 points that I wanted to raise have actually been raised. For starters, I will join Senator Jackowski's appeal regarding the committees and their records. Second line. Well, I'm talking about print number 48, which you've already explained to Senator Czerwiński. As far as the Senate Bureau is concerned, the law and justice club, which has 48 senators, is almost half of the House, has the same representation as a three-person wheel or a two-senator wheel. Well, it's not even a wheel, it's just two senators. Mr. Senator said that this is the logic, and before that, in another matter, he also spoke of common sense, but also logic, and common sense dictates that these proportions change. Print No. 48 is also an example of how you treat 48 Senators' initiatives, but we are in a minority. Senators of the Law and Justice Club. Before that, I asked how much this project was lying in the freezer, colloquially speaking. Since January 16, or nearly six months. I remember, at first, most of the Senate spoke of good standards, good customs, not to be too quick on the one hand, and too slow on the other. Shouldn't you be proceding too fast? Well, just now, in the Legislative Commission, we've been dealing with a resolution prepared ad hoc, very quickly, within a few hours. And here we see an example of how you treat minority initiatives. I think that good customs and good standards require, however, that the resolutions or laws and amendments drawn up by a minority should be considered A little faster. And don't hook them up to anything, just like it was done in the case of print number 48, which was plugged under print number 72. Senator Czerwiński has already mentioned a strange print number 48/72 S. I confirm it's a strange print. I know it's in accordance with the rules, but good customs and good standards dictate that we proceed with such projects separately. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u158	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that Senator Sławomir Rybicki and Senator Marek Borowski have submitted legislative proposals in writing. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? Yes. The discussion is closed. Senator Sławomir Rybicki has submitted a request for the appointment of committees to prepare an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the draft resolution still at this Senate meeting. If I do not hear the votes of objection, I will find that the Senate has accepted the motion. I can't hear the voices of opposition. This is addressed to the Legislative Committee and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. It is contained in print No 97 and the report No 97 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u159	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee and the Legislative Committee at their meetings on 5 May and 26 May carried out the first reading by the Senate Marshal on 31 March to the draft resolution on amending the Rules of Procedure of the Senate. The resolution is in senate print no. 97. At its meeting on 5 May this year. on behalf of the applicants, Senator Krzysztof Słoń presented the project. During the discussion, Senator Borowski submitted a request for a break in the meeting and for a draft resolution to be sent to the expert. The vote received a majority: 16 senators voted in favour and 13 abstentions. Following the reopening of the meeting on 26 May, the Head of the Legislative Office, the Director of Kapeliński, presented the main thesis drawn up by the Legislative Bureau in respect of the draft contained in print No 97. During a rather interesting, turbulent and certainly constructive discussion at the joint committee meeting... I would like to thank you here, because it is rare that there are good intentions, and so I read the speeches of both the representatives of the Senate and the Senators of Law and Justice. This meeting succeeded in preparing a report, which I am presenting to the High House, in which we propose regulation in fact of the situation of remote Senate meetings, but we are enriching this practice with provisions for remote committee meetings. I'll briefly quote these regulations. The draft submitted by the group of applicants, dictated by the need for a moment, i.e. a pandemic, epidemiological situation in the country, was, of course, a duplication of proposals adopted with regard to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. However, the expertise that has been prepared shows that this proposal requires, in general terms, certain changes. The response to this proposal was the amendments tabled by Senator Borowski on behalf of the Senate majority, which lead in their solutions to the same purpose, i.e. to ensure the possibility of sitting in a remote Senate mode and the possibility of sitting in this mode also for committees. However, there are some differences, I think, in the philosophy of approach to this issue. Namely, the project, which submitted the majority, emphasizes the possibility for senators to participate remotely in Senate meetings and committee meetings, but also places great emphasis on such classic parliamentarianism, i.e. that. meetings of the committee should take place with the participation of qualified representatives, i.e. representatives of applicants or government, experts, etc. The laws that proposed Law and Justice were simply too detailed. This is not an allegation, but the proposal made by the majority seems more appropriate to the needs and practice that has already developed here in the High House. These provisions provide the possibility for the Senate Bureau to hold its meetings on a regular basis, to be made as simple as possible. We know that in practice this has already happened in the history of the Senate. They also concern the fact that the Marshal may decide to hold a meeting of the Senate Bureau using electronic means of communication enabling distance communication to ensure the identification of participants. The provisions relating to the meetings of the Convention may be applied accordingly in this case. And there is a proposed whole section of VIA, which regulates the participation of senators in meetings in remote mode, also introduces quite iron rules as to when these meetings can be held in this mode. Here I thank the Senators of Law and Justice for the substantive contributions and proposals they have made, in particular Senator Czerwiński. It is defined that the participation of senators in Senate meetings and Senate committees in a remote manner is possible only in justified cases resulting from the introduction of the emergency condition described in the Constitution in Article. 228 This is martial law, a state of emergency, a state of natural disaster, and through the proposal of Senator Czerwiński it has been enriched so that this is also possible in a situation of epidemic danger resulting from the Act on the fight against infectious diseases. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that's about it. Those regulations, I think... One more important remark. The Law and Justice proposal quite early, because at the end of March, it had a time horizon: until 30 June. But we agreed that in the situation we're seeing, this condition will apply... these regulations will apply in a situation where there will be an emergency or one of the epidemic states. That's it. I ask the High House to adopt the uniform text proposed by the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicant. I remind you that the applicants have authorized them to represent Senator Krzysztof Elephant. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Mariusz Gromka, who are in room 182, to Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. Senator Kazimierz Wind came to the questions first. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u161	Mr. Senator, I have this question: don't you think this report, presented today, is dramatically late? Because the senators' expectations from all sides of our House were that it would be possible to participate remotely in committee meetings, and I was repeatedly asked to do so as chairman of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u162	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u163	Mr. Senator, I believe the Senate has proven during these difficult months that it is capable of working in extraordinary conditions. And he did this job very well, in objectively very difficult conditions. And what may be different from the Senate is that this work was done in an open, visible and one that confirms that parliamentarianism is still connected with the sitting, the deliberations, the debate, the discussion. It is therefore only in exceptional circumstances that we should exercise the power conferred by this proposal to participate in the deliberations remotely, on an exception to the rule. And that's what this proposal is all about. Why did it take so long? Well, these proposals made by law and justice applicants were mechanically rewritten from the Seym project. I do not want to go into a detailed criticism of this, but the opinion of the legislators points to the shortcomings of this, not due to bad intentions, but as if from the pace that was adequate, as I understand it, to the pandemic situation. But there were solutions that just needed change. It took a while to prepare this expertise, hence the time shift. But, as I say, I think the Senate has come out of this situation, working in difficult conditions, in a really model way, in a really commendable way.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u164	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you another question, Mrs. Marshal. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u165	Mr. Senator, that's not exactly the answer that was given, so I'll be more specific about the question. Over the past months, the asymmetry of the situation was that the Senate, which finally approved the laws, could work remotely or, as it was called, hybridly, and the committees could not, and these beautiful words at both our House, the Senate of the Most Clear Republic and the individual participants, are probably right, but we do not know what the senators who did not attend the meetings of the committee would say, because they could not be personally, and they were not provided with remote participation. So the senator's complacency is not entirely justified, and I would like the senator to answer my question directly after all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u166	Mr Senator, in reply to this, I will say that the Senate has dealt with the draft in print 97 in a normal manner, without undue delay, but that together the majority of the members of the joint committees thought that this project had to be assessed, because it raises doubts, even in so far as it excluded the possibility of participating in the work of the committees of experts and other authorised representatives, and this was the result of the proposal submitted by Law and Justice. That is why this opinion was necessary. And the result of this opinion is a new proposal that creates opportunities for remote work in committees so that authorised representatives can take part in the work of these committees. That's my answer. That was the course of the committee's meeting, and that was the facts. I don't know what the senator expected yet. It seems to me that Parliament's work, despite this apparent delay and the time spent preparing the opinion, has guaranteed really high legislative quality and all the tasks that have been carried out before committees and parliaments, the Senate, have been fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u167	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u168	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have two questions. One of them concerns Article. 67b. 3 and 4 read together, I'm already talking about this S-print, about print No. 97 S. Well, we have lips. The adoption of a formal application shall not prevent the participation of the Senate in a remote manner and in paragraph 3. 4 The secrecy of the Senate's deliberations makes it impossible to participate in the sitting remotely. Does this mean that a formal application, as in the Rules of Procedure, cannot be submitted for secrecy because this will prevent the sitting from being held remotely? Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 provides that such formal applications may not be submitted. I'm talking about the relationship between these laws. That's the first question. And second, more general, but I think they need to be put here. In the original draft by the Senators of Law and Justice, there was a mention of those who, either in plenary in the Senate, or in particular in committees. They are involved in the work, e.g. as experts, representatives of the government, Members, representatives of the applicants. In this text it doesn't exist, I'm obviously talking about the text in S's print. The question is, can they participate remotely or not? It's not written down. Isn't there a law like that or is it gonna be a gentlemen's contract, I don't know, a gentleman's contract? For example, all I can say is that in the Sejm in committees they work remotely, but the senator presenting the senate's proposal must go personally to such a committee meeting. Shouldn't this be completed by simply pointing out the person, suppose, from the article. 33, I think. Two or, I don't know, lips. One and two?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u169	Mr. Senator, let me start with the second question. Looks like it's just a recipe... I will read this passage: the Senate Marshal, after consulting the Seniors Convention, may allow senators outside the Senate to attend a Senate meeting or committee using electronic means of communication. In this provision, I think, it's simply said that it only applies to senators. Exactly. If experts and other authorised representatives wish to attend the meeting, they must do so in person. And a representative, I don't know... a Member who would like to honor us with a presence but a remote one? I think it is clear from this provision that this applies only to senators, so everyone else entitled, if they wish to attend the meeting, must do so personally. As for the first question, I will say that, of course, the secrecy of the Senate's deliberations makes it impossible to participate in the sitting remotely and the person who wishes to attend this meeting must appear in person in the Senate. We know from our practice that the secrecy of the Senate's deliberations continues, that it is a multi-hour process and that a person who has the opportunity, has the physical ability, can simply come to a meeting that is classified. So no formal motion can limit the senator's participation in the sitting, that's his sacred law, nothing limitless. It shall be restricted only remotely if there is a confidentiality of the deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u170	Content of this provision If you don't mind, that's the last sentence. It's different because she's talking, it's about mouth. 3 that participation cannot be prevented, but not as such, only in the Senate meeting remotely. This means that if a request for secrecy is filed and it is accepted, those who are currently wired remotely are still attending the meeting... Their rights defend their mouths. 3. This would mean that these people cannot be kept secret, which means that they cannot be kept secret at all. These two laws are contradictory to me. I don't know what the poet meant, I'm sorry, because in that sense they're...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u171	I understand, I see that there's something going on between these regulations, but I think it's about the other conclusions that are in the catalogue, the fact that they can't prevent... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes. But the request for secrecy necessarily makes it impossible to participate in the meeting remotely. That's what's coming from this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u172	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u173	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, you used this phrase without undue delay. When exactly did the Senators of Law and Justice make this proposal? Well, it's June. How long has it been?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u174	On 31 March, the Senate Marshal sent a draft resolution to the legislative and regulatory committee. Let me remind you that this was at a time when the pandemic was getting the most intense, and we all worked in extraordinarily. We worked under these extraordinary conditions on the basis of existing regulations. What is the subject of our meeting today is a proposal on which we have some degree of practice with regard to plenary meetings and, in relation to the work of the committee, this is a new solution. Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u175	Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u176	Thank you. Mr. Senator, of course I know we've had a pandemic. These proposals, which were made by the Senators of Law and Justice, stem from the need to safeguard or ensure the security of senators who would not have to come to Warsaw, but would be able to participate remotely in the proceedings. But without undue delay. Were there meetings at the time? Well, there were meetings. So we could have taken this initiative earlier, I understand, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u177	Mr Senator, the joint committees, within the agreed deadline, addressed this project, as I mentioned, on 5 May and after the discussion, addressed the project to the Legislative Bureau, which, as I mentioned, made comments. They were taken into account by the committees. And that's where the proposal came from, in my opinion, according to the work of the Senate accepted. Because it was a kind of... I can't say it was a compromise. But to a large extent the suggestions of the Law and Justice Party were accepted. And that also goes against, well, the objective situation that we're dealing with, which is an epidemic we're not sure about when it's gonna end.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u178	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u179	Mr. Senator, Mr. Chairman, I have three questions. The first technical question from Senator Czerwiński's question of secrecy. These two points seem to be in some contradiction or opposition. Shouldn't it be considered to supplement the provisions for such a situation that a committee meeting is being convened, there is a request for its secrecy, and at this point those who participate in it are excluded? And now one can presume, with a high probability of certainty, that these ladies and these senators who participate remotely, if they knew that the meeting would be kept secret, would take a personal part in it with health risks and life. In a hybrid situation, as it is colloquially called here, shouldn't the committee's secrecy be associated with a certain delay of some number of hours, for some time, so that those who take part in the meeting remotely, give them the opportunity to participate personally? Because what we are talking about here is actually quite important to deprive those rights that we are talking about here at the previous point today and in the present one we are talking about. The second question is very specific. Mr President spoke about the expertise that took place during this long break at the committee meeting. Would it be possible to request the personalities of the authors of these experts and their affiliations? And third question, last question. What caused hybrid Senate meetings to take place without amending the Rules of Procedure and was impossible in relation to committee meetings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u180	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u181	I'll start with the third question. It is not a question to the rapporteur of the joint committees, because it was not the subject of the sitting, it is rather a question to the bureau, the convention and your marshal about how he interpreted the rules of procedure by proposing such a procedure for the Senate meeting. As for the expertise, it was 2 expert reports and both were for print number 97, which is not the subject of our work, but for the proposal of Law and Justice, which is slightly different from what we are doing today. That is also an important point. One is the expertise of the Senate Legislative Office, and the other is the expertise of Prof. Wiszówk from the University of Gdansk, the expert of the previous term of office. There was no change of the experts of the Senate, the Legislative Commission and the Rules of Procedure, as I recall. And the first question. Well, I've already tried to answer them, and I guess I just have to repeat that the senator's right to attend a formal motion cannot be denied. If this is a request for secrecy, then you have to... This is how I understand this provision, which is formulated with regard to the plenary session. The provisions of the meetings shall apply mutatis mutandis. So, well, it can be concluded that, in the event of a secret committee meeting, the senators should be given time to exercise their authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u182	Thank you very much. No further questions... Oh, and you're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u183	Yeah, just a quick question. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's about the subcommittees. Although we don't have them at the moment, we didn't call them, but if it's universal, you can add them there. I'm sure no one's gonna pick on it, and it's just gonna be settled.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u184	Mr. Senator, this is of course a valuable point, although I think it might be possible to do so on the basis of... I don't want to use the Latin word, but there's a rule in civil law. It can also be applied here, including the Rules of Procedure. That if you can do more, you can do less. So if there's anything you can do about the committee... Same thing. ...the more it can be applied to the subcommittee. It seems to me that it could be interpreted in such a way. This also applies to subcommittees which may arise on the basis of this regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u185	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of speakers. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of senators participating in the meeting, remotely - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. Please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u186	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will only say two sentences in connection with this question I asked earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, print number 97 is an initiative of the Senators' Group of Law and Justice, a very important initiative that was launched on 30 March this year. She was the result of a pandemic of Coronavirus, which was made to ensure the safety of the senators, but also of all our loved ones. The point is that it is possible to participate remotely not only in Senate meetings but also in committee meetings. Well, I checked it out. I asked this question to the rapporteur, and the senator said that the project was aimed at further work without undue delay. I checked it out. It was introduced on March 30, at the eighth meeting. In the meantime, there was a ninth sitting, there was a tenth sitting, so it could have been followed much, much earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u187	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 19 October 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 121 and the report of the Commission In print No 121 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Michał Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u188	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! We are now entering into a series of debates on ratification laws, 3 of which concern ratification of the treaties concluded by the European Union with third countries. Such documents, given the nature of agreements concluded by the European Union with other actors in international law, require ratification by all Member States of the European Union. This is the case for the contract referred to in print No 121. It is about expressing our consent to the ratification by the President of the Republic of Poland of the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the Republic of Singapore, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 19 October 2018. This agreement between the European Union and Singapore deals with a number of issues, e.g. combat international terrorism or joint action in forums of international organisations. It is also about combating and combating the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and, of course, as usual in such cases, something which, as far as Singapore is concerned, is very important not only for the whole Union but also for Poland, i.e. the development of trade relations. It is worth remembering that Singapore is not only an interesting partner for our economy in many areas of innovation, from which Singapore is famous, but also through a large part of Polish business is treated, and rightly, as a window to Asia, at least to the part of Asia in which Singapore is located. The Sejm agreed to the President's ratification of this agreement on 14 May 2020. As this document raises no legislative doubts, I ask the High Senate to approve the bill before it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Mariusz Gromka and to Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senators of the Secretaries, and send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. Senator Alexander Swed wants to ask you a question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u190	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I have a question. This Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with Singapore is signed by all Member States of the European Union. Was there any information at the committee meeting, or does the marshal have such information, which Member States have already ratified this agreement?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u191	Thank you very much, Senator... Card. You have to put your card on... Thank you very much, Senator. Very not in Singapore, I'm lost in technical problems today, and thank you, Marshal, for your help. I don't have that knowledge, but I'm sure the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has that knowledge. I understand that the senator's question concerns not what countries of the European Union have signed bilateral agreements with Singapore, but who have already ratified this agreement, which we are now ratifying. I don't have that kind of knowledge. To be honest, I don't think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can have it today, and I don't even know if that knowledge is needed. However, I can tell you, and it seems to me that everyone will confirm that this agreement sometimes happens, as I know from 11 years of practice in the European Parliament, that some agreements between the Union and third countries are very controversial, because they are connected for example. with a hit on some economic interests of a part of the European Union As far as I know, but nothing else sounded at the committee meeting, there is no controversy in the Polish or European forum.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u192	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. There is a representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Do you mind if I take a seat? Yeah, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u193	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! To answer only the senator's question, I will say that Poland is one of the three countries that first ratify this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u194	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do you senators want to ask such questions? No. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. I remind you of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of senators participating remotely in the meeting. - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the sake of order, I would also like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on the ratification of the Framework Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Australia, on the other, drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017. The text of the Act is contained in print No 122 and the report of the Commission In print No 122 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Michał Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u195	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As I mentioned in the presentation of the previous point, we will have another such agreement, an agreement between the European Union and its Member States and # This time # Australia. This Agreement was drawn up in Manila on 7 August 2017. Immediately, pointing to a chronological sequence, I will say that on 14 May 2020, the Polish Parliament agreed to ratify this agreement by the President of the Republic. I, asking the Senate to do the same, will only say briefly that this agreement, like the earlier one, stems from the desire to strengthen cooperation between the European Union and In this case, Australia. It is based on three pillars of cooperation, political cooperation, economic cooperation and sectoral cooperation, e.g. in areas such as research and innovation. We are aware of the importance of Australia in this part of the world, but, speaking of the agreement between the European Union and Australia, we must also be aware that in this area of the world Australia is the depositary of these values which we regard as values of European civilization, it is a free market, democracy... Just like New Zealand. ...like New Zealand. You're very right to see the senator. I would like to stress that these are countries with which the European Union has very much to do with not only economic but also cultural and historical relations. Let me repeat: I kindly ask the High Senate to pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Mariusz Gromka and to Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting, please contact us for questions via chat in the application. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u197	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, a brief question to check: why does this contract have the word "rama" in its title? What is the difference between a normal cooperation agreement and a framework agreement?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u198	This is a framework agreement because it concerns many areas of cooperation between the European Union and third countries. If the contract is not a framework, it concerns one aspect. There could be a deal. I worked on it in the European Parliament, e.g. on cooperation between the European Union and the United States on passenger data flying aircraft. She was very controversial. Then it is not a framework agreement, because it concerns one particular case. Framework agreements shall define the framework for cooperation. Like I said, this deal Australia, of course, but, let's agree, there's also a little classic in it for Europe, you can say, the new bureaucratic one is based on 3 pillars. And the contract is because it creates a framework for these three pillars that I mentioned, a framework just.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u199	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u200	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I have a question. You said that the agreement covers three areas of cooperation: the area of political cooperation in foreign and security policy, the area of cooperation in economic and trade matters and sectoral cooperation This is the case, among other things. research and innovation. Were these issues discussed at the committee meeting in the context of Poland's ability to expand its cooperation with Australia in this area?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u201	Thank you very much, Senator. This particular issue was not the subject of special discussions, but I, without being a representative of the government, can give you... And you can probably repeat this question to government representatives who will probably answer the senator in that spirit that such agreements between the European Union and third countries usually help Poland to develop bilateral relations with these countries. There are cases. But we could talk about this for a very long time. In which such agreements may harm Polish interests. But this does not appear to be the case in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u202	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to ask you a question? Please, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'm addressing Marshal Kaminski with such a question. Was there any particular discussion at the committee meeting on the issue of security policies? Because one of the areas referred to in this ratification is the security policy. Has this aspect been raised in any particular way? And if so, what was the argument behind this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u204	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u205	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, this aspect has not been touched. But I can tell you from myself that cooperation in the field of security with Australia is very important for the European Union, not only for the European Union but also for the United States, because Australia plays a very important role in some geopolitical competition between China and the Western world. Right in this area. And here, obviously, Australia's military presence in this area, to say the most colloquially, strengthens the state of ownership of our community, the Western community, right in this part of the world. What, in the case of often very aggressive policies, which do not count against our European values, is certainly important to us in this area of the world.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u206	There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u207	Thank you very much. I'd like to elaborate on that, because I've been waiting for the marshal to raise the issue of China. I understand that this issue was not raised at all during the committee meeting. Nevertheless, the information that comes to us shows that the Australian-Chinese relations are under pressure at the moment, to put it simply. And so... Was there a representative of the Australian Union at the committee meeting, and did he in any way refer to these issues or not? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u208	I'm sorry to say this, but I'm a very young senator. Unfortunately, not a young man, but a young senator. I do not know whether there has been a tradition so far for such ratification agreements to come to the ambassadors of the countries concerned. As far as I'm concerned... Especially since the issue is not a bilateral agreement, it is a framework agreement with the European Union. So I don't know. Nevertheless, as an extremely thorough observer of the international scene, the senator has certainly noticed that not only with Australia, especially recently, China has a tight relationship.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u209	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u210	I would like to say, Mr Marshal, that as the agreement between the European Union and the European Union was being examined, I can't remember when it was. E.g. Colombia, the Colombian embassy in Warsaw was very active and participated in the work. In the previous term, it was. These situations just happened, so it's not some kind of practice that was... Mr. Senator, I'm asking you a question. I just wanted to answer the question... But the senator doesn't have to answer. The senator is asking a question now. So maybe it would be good practice... Question, Mr. Senator. Wouldn't it be good practice to invite representatives of parties who might be potentially interested in participating in committee work and presenting their views?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u211	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u212	Mr. Senator, I don't know what kind of practice has been in this case so far, and please forgive me for... I'm just a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and I'm not on the bureau of this committee, which, after all, is a representative of Law and Justice. Really, believe me, I don't know what practice is in this case. I was certainly present at the committee meeting. There was no representative of the Australian Union. Unless he was there spiritually, he was not physically there.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u213	Thank you very much. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I was convinced that the senator would ask, take advantage of this opportunity... [[Joy in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u214	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question about this ratification of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, whether there is any activity of the diplomatic representation of the Australian Union in Poland. Was there any interest, any meetings within the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u215	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u216	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! So far there has been no such practice that, in the case of such ratifications, where negotiations are conducted by the European Union, consult the representativeship of the European Union partner, at least from the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u217	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u218	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, an unusual little question due to ignorance. These other agreements related to the European Union were signed in Brussels and this is signed in Manila. Is this based on some diplomatic principle, or was it just a complete coincidence? Does it have a deeper background, e.g. that, so to speak, with a smaller partner you sign contracts in the capital of a larger partner, and Australia is on such, I don't know, a level of magnitude that it isn't? I'd like to find out because that's the exception in this group.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u219	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u220	There is no established practice in this area. Sometimes agreements between two countries are signed in another country, for example. Some kind of European Union summit .Australia. There is therefore no international practice in this respect. It may be that the agreement between two countries is signed in one of these countries and may be signed in a third country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u221	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions for the representative... Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u222	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question, in fact, which I asked earlier. As I understand it, this framework agreement, as well as the other agreements we're working on today in the Senate, is intended to help... As regards these 3 pillars, are there any issues that, according to the Ministry, will be subject to some broader cooperation with Australia under this agreement? I mean, of course, the Polish side.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u223	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u224	Of course, yes, virtually all will be subject to talks, but at the level of agreements between the European Union and the Australian Union. As has been said here, this agreement is of a framework nature and as such it will require clarification in specific sectoral agreements. Then you will be able to ask about specific, substantive issues concerning specific areas, representatives of individual departments, e.g. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Security in the field of cooperation in foreign policy or in the economic sphere during the trade agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u225	Thank you very much. Would any of you like to ask the government representative another question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of senators participating remotely in the meeting, of their transmission by electronic means to the address indicated in the instructions given to you. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up for the vote, and at the same time, for the sake of order, I would like to inform you that Senator Alexander Swed has made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. I wish we'd listened. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Partnership Agreement on relations and cooperation between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 5 October 2016. The text of the Act is contained in print no.123 and the report of the Commission in print no. 123 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Michał Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would like to say that, in some sense, Senator Czerwiński's profesional remark is now being made to ratify the next agreement. I will allow myself to no longer apply all these descriptions of the agreement, only that I will add that this time it is an agreement drawn up between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and New Zealand on the other. I would also like to reassure Senator Czerwiński that this time this agreement was drawn up in Brussels and signed in Brussels, I can give a heads-up to any questions about this. As in previous cases, this agreement raises no legislative objections. On 14 May, at its eleventh meeting, the draft law was adopted and I am asking the High Senate to do the same.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Mariusz Gromka, who are in room 182, to Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. Senator Aleksander Swed has been asked. Oh!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u228	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I have a question. We have information that the parties can complement the agreement by concluding specific agreements relating to each area of cooperation covered by the agreement. Was this mentioned at the committee meeting? I mean the procedure for such specific agreements. Is it possible for the European Union as a party to change this, or is it possible to do so at the request of a Member State?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u229	Mr Senator, now you have asked a question that requires a very long answer, and I will gladly give it a question about the functioning of the European Union's foreign policy, as well as international legal relations, so to speak, between the Member States of the European Union and third countries. I think, in short... I mean, I don't think so. In short, Mr Senator: Poland may conclude bilateral agreements with these countries on various matters under the provisions negotiated between the European Union and third countries. E.g. In a minute... I'm here to anticipate what we're about to witness, I presume. It is a bilateral agreement between Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany. Both Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany are in the European Union and yet they conclude a bilateral agreement. Poland, of course, has the right to conclude such agreements. However, the question addressed to the senator in this regard is so inadequate to the constitutional reality that neither the Senate nor the parliament conduct foreign policy in Poland. It's run by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it's in government competence. For my part, this is not a criticism of establishing or extending such cooperation. But that wasn't at the committee meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] If I may... Mr. Marshal, may I?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u230	You can. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I, for God's sake, did not test the knowledge here, I simply asked the question, addressed it to your marshal as the Senator of the rapporteur and asked if it was mentioned at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u232	No, Senator, just so we're clear, I don't take it maliciously, but I'm also not afraid of overly interrogating me from my knowledge of the European Union. Yeah, well, don't be embarrassed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u233	Thank you, Senator. Now Senator Jan Maria Jackowski asks a question to the Senator of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I would like to address Marshal Kaminski, the rapporteur of the committee. This agreement also results in enhanced cooperation between New Zealand and the European Union in economic matters and in the area of justice and the fight against cybercrime. Were there any aspects to the committee's meeting? Is that the kind of crime you're looking at? We know that this crime has a global dimension right now, and there are no boundaries here... there are different areas of this crime. Was it specified at the committee meeting... Was there any discussion about this or not? Was there any information in this regard? I will also ask the Minister, but I will ask for an answer from the position of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u235	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u236	The length of my answer will be inversely proportional to the length of the question you asked. The answer is no.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u237	Thank you. There's no more questions to ask. At present, senators can report from a place lasting no more than a minute... Oh, I'm sorry. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Piotr Wawrzyk like to speak on the bill? No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u238	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. According to what I was talking about, I told you. I have a question for the Minister: is there any knowledge in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs about the issues or threats related to cybercrime or at all to the level of crime involved in ratification and agreement? I mean, is it necessary? 'Cause I think it is. The need to cooperate with the relevant authorities of the Member States of the European Union, the European Union itself and the authorities of New Zealand in combating this phenomenon. It, as you know, is already global and exists, so to speak, across borders, continents. Is there any knowledge of this at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and is there any information that the Minister could share with the senators at the Ministry's disposal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u239	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u240	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, both these countries, i.e. the Australian Union and New Zealand, are among the key partners of the European Union in the region in all forms of security. Cybersecurity, but also generally security in terms of crime or international policy and security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u241	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u242	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to repeat the question I asked the senator of the rapporteur. I am here about supplementing the agreement by concluding specific agreements. What's the procedure? If the Minister has that knowledge, then... Does this also happen at the request of a Member State?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u243	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u244	I will allow for a longer lecture on the Treaty provisions on the competence of the European Union to conclude international agreements. Depending on the competence, we will be talking about two types of procedure: either the procedure for concluding a contract by the Member States or, as in this case, the mixed contract procedure. Where there are exclusive competences of the European Union in a given field and is e.g. a common trade policy, an agreement between the European Union and a foreign partner. In such a case as the one we are talking about, but also a number of others, where there are so-called. shared competences, this will be an agreement between the European Union, the Member States and a third partner. The procedure will be exactly the same as in this case: first the position of the Member States, then the European Union, on this basis, will be required, then the Commission will negotiate and then the outcome of these negotiations, i.e. the form of the agreement negotiated by the Commission, will require approval, as you are doing today in the case of these agreements. Thank you very much. If you don't mind me asking...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u245	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u246	I understand that all Member States. Yes? What will happen if we want to change such an agreement or one country or most countries want to do so, and one country disagrees?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u247	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u248	Mr Marshal, Mr Senator, when it comes to an agreement between the European Union and its Member States, this must be understood, as in this case, that all Member States.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u249	Thank you. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of the senators, who have participated remotely in the meeting. It shall be sent electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to express my firm support for ratification of all these three agreements, both with Singapore and with the Australian Union and New Zealand. The European Union's relations, including Poland, especially with the latter two countries are particularly close, can even be said of the geopolitical partnership within the Western world. But I would also like to take this opportunity to answer a highly respected Senator Czerwiński's previous question. For these few minutes, I was able to see why the place where the agreement was concluded between the Australian Union and the European Union was so exotic. Well, I wasn't just distracted by the senator's inquisitiveness, but also by the place you mentioned, which is Namibia. This isn't... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Manila, Manila, that's right. This is Manila, the capital of the Philippines. The signing of this agreement took place at the summit of the Association of East Asian States in August 2017. To be honest, I would not rule out, in terms of diplomatic experience, the possibility that the choice of this place could also be linked to the attractiveness of the Philippines in August, especially for the delegation from Australia. In August, as I recall, it's winter in Australia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u251	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. Are there any conclusions? No. If one of the senators wants to make a legislative proposal, he still has time. I would like to inform you that there are no such conclusions. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context, signed at Neuhardenberg on 10 October 2018. The text of the Act is contained in print No 124 and the Commission's reports In print No 124 A and No 124 B. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Michał Kaminski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I request, on behalf of our Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, to vote for the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on environmental impact assessments and strategic environmental impact assessments in a cross-border context signed at Neuhardenberg on 10 October 2018. Environmental impact assessment and strategic environmental impact assessment are one of the basic legal instruments for environmental protection that reflect the implementation of the principles of prevention and foresight in the investment and planning process. The environmental impact assessment procedure shall be carried out for any planned project likely to have a significant impact on the environment, which is a construction purpose or any other environmental interference consisting in transforming or changing the use of the site, including the extraction of fossil fuels. In turn, a strategic environmental impact assessment is an instrument for integrating environmental aspects into the economic and social aspects considered at the stage of drafting strategic documents of both planning and industry, and other strategic documents whose implementation can have a significant impact on the Natura 2000 area. In the case of both EIA and EIA, an integral part of the procedure is an assessment in a cross-border context if there are grounds for doing so. The cross-border EIA or EIA investigation shall take into account international cooperation in actions aimed at preventing, reducing and controlling significant harmful cross-border environmental impacts resulting from the planned activities. The agreement was drawn up on the basis of the provisions of the current agreement of 2006, the Esau Convention and the Strategic Protocol. It creates a legal framework for 2 types of proceedings, i.e. procedures for environmental impact assessment and procedures for strategic environmental impact assessment. The Sejm adopted this law at its 11th meeting on 14 May 2020. The Act raises no legislative objections. Therefore, once again I ask the High Senate to support the bill enabling the President to sign, ratify this international agreement between Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u253	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u254	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I think I can speak from the spot. After Senator Kaminski's speech, there is little I can add about what is the essence of this bill. Let me just say that the committee meeting took place yesterday in the presence of a representative of the Directorate-General for Environment. In fact, there was no discussion, because this agreement is an expected agreement to improve cooperation in the field of environmental impact findings with one of our closest neighbours, namely the German Federal Republic. In my opinion, 'Cause that's my opinion. This is important because we have a common river that we can, God forbid, pollute, and also near the border is mining brown coal on one side as well as on the other side. So that the issue of environmental impact, especially in perspective, is important. The meeting was also attended by a representative of the Ministry of the Environment. There were no questions. The Commission voted unanimously in favour of this law while asking for its adoption without any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u255	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Mariusz Gromka, who are in room 182, to Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Victor Durlak. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. No questions? Senator Swede. Senator Swede left... No, it is. Good. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator, don't provoke the senator. No questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Environment were authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Do government representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration? This concerns Minister Piotr Wawrzyk and Minister Margaret Golińska. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, isn't it? At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski is the first to ask a question. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The first question is for the Minister. It's environmental-related. Whether the signing of this agreement will have any effect, whether positive or negative, e.g. for the operation of our energy industry in Turoszowski's Work, and for mines, and for power plants? Will this in any way limit our own sovereign actions there? And second question, sort of related. Would this contract, if it had been before, be able to, for example. prevent such an ecological disaster as in the Jizera Mountains, where some of you have seen it. The whole area of the dead spruce forest? It's been a long time, but theoretically, this could happen again. And this was mainly influenced by pollution from Germany. These were questions to the Minister, and to the Minister there will be a slightly broader question, which is not directly related to this law. I'm sorry, but I'm taking advantage of the Minister's presence here. I'd like a written reply. We, the Republic of Poland, bind various international acts to the Federal Republic of Germany. One of them is the Treaty between the Republic of Poland and the Federal Republic of Germany of 1991 with good neighbourhood and cooperation. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 20 of this treaty are described, I would call it privileges, because it can be defined in this way, connected with the presence of people who are nationals of a given country, and who admit to another nationality, namely Poles in Germany and Germans in Poland. And while Germany in Poland is defined as a national minority in this treaty, Poles in Germany are not so defined. There's a clear asymmetry here. This rarely happens in international agreements. I would ask for an answer, as I said, in writing, to ask how you evaluate this asymmetry. Does it affect the real fulfilment of the obligations enshrined in this Treaty? And one last thing: what do we learn from this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u257	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u258	Mr. Senator! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be clear, I will say that this agreement does not have and will not affect the outcome of the proceedings in the case of any investment, either from us or from Germany. She can't be treated as a tool to block anything. This agreement standardizes the conduct that is going on or which will be taking place in the future. And the experience of the Directorate-General for the Environment, which is responsible for supervision, so much to describe, as far as environmental impacts are concerned, shows that while we already have a number of issues on the Polish side, we already have regular, structured ones on the part of the Directorate-General for the Environment, with the national committee of the Escheo Convention at the same time, there is a lot of support for ongoing investments, but on the German side. Unfortunately, so far there have been no such uniform procedures. For us, it was very difficult because of the fact that the regime there caused that talks about the investment were held with representatives of various authorities from different lands and there was not even support on that side from the German committee of the Escheo Convention. These procedures were therefore different depending on who sat on the other side of the conversation. This was an extremely difficult task for Poland and delayed the implementation of many investments. That's one thing. Second line. If on the Polish side We, when submitting documents to Germany, in accordance with Polish law, also passed documents on issues related to cross-border interactions translated into German, in the case of investments on the other hand, if the documents were transmitted to Poland, they were always in German and on the Polish side there was a whole burden related to translation. It can be said that this is not a heavy burden, but for the investor an additional tens of thousands of PLN for translation is not only an expense, but also an extension of the whole process. So it seems that what we have had so far regulated and what we have done exemplaryly, today will eventually also be observed on the other side, which I hope will It'll speed up a lot of processes. Except, like I said, it's not a tool to block investments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u259	Thank you, Minister. And I have a question for Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. Minister, I remember that there was a problem inherited from the German Democratic Republic, and it concerned the watercourse to Świnoujście, there was a problem with the deepening of the watercourse, and then there was a problem with laying the Nord Stream pipeline. Firstly: does this agreement also apply to this issue? And secondly, are those problems that have been problems for many years? The controversy between the Polish People's Republic and the GDR was hidden and then between the Polish People's Republic and Germany. Are they out of date yet?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u260	Mr. Marshal, to be honest, it seems to me that the Ministry of the Environment should be speaking about the course of the watercourse... You're welcome. But let us also remember that on the one hand This is a problem inherited from the period of the Polish People's Republic and, on the other hand, it is a question of political agreement to build this pipeline, or in fact of the lack of protest by the then Polish authorities, when Nord Stream II moved.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u261	No, I'm just asking about it... I'm asking about Nord Stream, by the way. Because first it was the question of the watercourse and the deepening of this water track, the belonging of the water track and the access of our ships, which had to pass through, in a fragment, not our territory to Świnoujście, and then, while laying Nord Stream... Because this pipeline was supposed to run through this deep watercourse. And here was also the problem that I remember, and diplomatic and economic. That's one thing. So is this agreement also about the kind of issues that we had between our countries? That's one thing. Secondly, are these issues that I am asking you no longer valid? So is everything okay about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u262	Mr. Marshal, we, speaking from the point of view of the Minister of the Environment, can only refer to environmental issues and assess them in every investment, other problems or disputes are beyond our ghetto. Therefore, I would not like to refer to it. And as for environmental issues, as for these procedures, this agreement will refer to all planned in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u263	Thank you very much. I'm not gonna bother you anymore. Senator Matecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u264	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. Well, just now, the Minister was kind enough to comment on the problems arising from the mutual transmission of documents in German or problems related to the need to translate these documents from German to Polish. Would you be kind, Minister, to tell us this again: was it true that the Polish party was obliged to pass on German documents and the German party was not obliged to give them to us in Polish? What was the result? Was that the result of any prior contracts or records? 'Cause if... Well, I'd like to know a problem that, as I understand it, was, and which is gone. But it seems that each page sends documents in the language that is valid in the country, and the partners then translate the documents sent. So I'm asking you to do it again because I'm not sure I got it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u265	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u266	These issues, which you are asking the senator, concern very general provisions in the directive. We internally, in Poland, in order to speed up many issues, have passed on documents already translated, and regulations on how to conduct cross-border proceedings have been included in the so-called. an axis law, i.e. environmental impact assessments. But, as I said, there was no such provision on the part of Germany, because this directive we are referring to is very general and does not oblige any Member State to conclude such detailed provisions. But the Secretariat of the ESPOO Convention recommends that such individual agreements be concluded between states just to clarify certain issues so that they become uniform and to speed up procedures. In this case this will happen, I hope, between us and the Germans. So I understand... If you don't mind...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u267	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u268	So I understand that these were just internal regulations that didn't make any official requirements. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u269	Yes. Okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u270	Thank you, Minister. I'll let you know that there are no more questions. I would like to inform you that the government representative, Mr Wawrzyk, has committed himself to answering in writing the questions of Senator Jerzy Czerwiński. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries, and the senators of the sitting remotely. It shall be sent electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The statistics have been corrected. Yes, sir. Please... No, no. Well, no comment, Mr. and Mrs. Senators... But that's not... Every senator has the right to make his speech to the record. But... In this way, we shorten the debate time. But... No, it was with sympathy... So... Oh, are there any legislative proposals? No. There isn't. I would like to inform you that no legislative proposals have been tabled. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'll ask Senator Secretary for communications.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A brief announcement. The 17th meeting of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee and the 50th second meeting of the Legislative Commission will take place on 2 June, i.e. today, in the plenary room 15 minutes after the adjournment... What do you mean, today? Yes, sir. Today. Today, in 15 minutes. That's 19.20... Agenda: consideration of requests submitted at the 11th Senate meeting for a draft resolution on amending the Senate Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-02-senat-11-2.u272	Thank you, Senator. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 08]]
