ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the sixth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Mariusz Gromka and Senator Jerzy Wcisła to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Mariusz Gromko. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the third meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. Mr. and Mrs. Senators! The draft agenda was placed on senator benches. I propose that the first item of the draft agenda be considered, even though the printed matter has been delivered at a later date than that specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I therefore state that the Senate approved the agenda for the sixth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We therefore proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The text of the Act is contained in print No 83 and the committee's report in print No 83 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to present a joint report to both committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Health Committee and the Legislative Committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 2 March 2020 on the specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. On 3 March 2020, the Senate Marshal sent the Act to the Health Commission and the Legislative Commission. Yesterday was a joint committee meeting. At the joint committee meeting, the position of the government was presented by Minister Michał Dworczyk, Minister Paweł Szrot and Minister Waldemar Kraska. I think I've said the right thing now, Minister. High Izbo, the Committee on Health, has been dealing with the problem of Coronavirus and the possible epidemic from the very beginning. On 4 February, there was the first meeting of the committee, when we had the opportunity to read the Minister of Health's information on protecting the public from the possible epidemic of Coronavirus. At the time, this topic was really about the epidemic that was then in China, and it did not seem to be such a major problem for Europe and for our society. However, already at the time, the WHO observed that this epidemic could be a cross-border epidemic and that a number of security measures should be carried out, first and foremost by preventive and preventive measures. As I said, at the meeting of the Health Committee, we were assured that all procedures were working properly, that the services carried out their duties in accordance with the laws in force, and that there is really nothing to fear that the most important challenge is to maintain hygiene, including frequent hand washing. Unfortunately, after two or three weeks, when it turned out to be a new infectious outbreak, the situation changed dramatically. This bonfire was already in Europe, Italy. It was also unfortunate that it was exactly the same time when there was a break in Poland and many of our compatriots were in Italy at that time. The measures taken to prevent and secure the arrival of people who have returned from areas with infectious outbreaks, but healthy people, seem to be a little late. This is where prevention didn't quite pass the test. Besides, prevention, as you know, is always in the background somewhere. It always seems that the treatment process is the most important and prevention remains in the shadows. And that's what happened this time. In fact, those who returned to Poland should already be quarantined, isolated. Unfortunately, this type of action has not been fully taken. In most cases, the message to our society was about people who had already had symptoms of infection. It was then that information was presented as to where these people should go, what to do, what to do. It seemed a little late. Nevertheless, all decisions that are made to ensure health safety are extremely important. We, therefore, as the Health Committee, have looked closely at these actions and have therefore requested that the agenda of the Senate be extended to include information from the government, which was to present a more recent situation after these three weeks. As you senators remember, the debate that seemed It was supposed to be short, it wasn't. It seemed that there would be little interest in the subject, but it turned out that it was the other way around. The public's great interest in this topic has caused the senators, too, to ask a lot of questions about this subject, not only in terms of prevention, but also in the whole organisation of the healthcare system related to security in equipment, in medicines, in the readiness of hospitals. All the questions that came to the Minister here were answered by the answer that we should not really be afraid of anything, because the situation is under control and all the measures that are being taken, whether by a health inspection or directly by the Ministry of Health, are sufficient. That is why it was really a surprise whether there was a special act, which appeared suddenly after the session in the Sejm, when, at the request of the President, an extraordinary meeting of the Sejm was convened and adopted, also as a matter of urgency, at that meeting. Yesterday, we were looking at this bill that entered the Senate. In the Senate, also as a matter of urgency, a meeting of the Health Committee and the Legislative Committee was convened. It also found that this special act is not a law of strict medical or health sense, it is not limited to actions in the field of health regime, epidemiological activities, but very deeply interferes with various other spheres, which concern both economic life, business, employers and local authorities. It turned out that it was a very broad law, reaching very deeply. Therefore, this joint meeting of the Joint Committee on Health and the Legislative Commission. High Izbo, as we have promised from the very beginning, that any work on the draft laws that we are going to undertake here will be very insightful, substantive, based on expertise, opinions, and we have approached this law exactly the same way. Specific opinions were commissioned, requests for specific opinions and expertise were addressed, and yesterday's meeting of the two joint committees was attended by representatives of business organisations and business environments and employers directly affected by this law. Yesterday's committee meeting lasted more than four hours, and, as I said, many representatives of various organisations and bodies directly affected by the law were present at this meeting. At this committee meeting there were among others. representatives of national drug producers, NSZZ National Commission, Solidarity, representatives of the competent Chamber of Commerce, representatives of the BCC, Confederation of Leviatans, Employers of the Republic of Poland, Chief Medical Chamber, Chief Pharmacy Chamber, Association of Pharmacy Employers and representative of employers of event companies. All those who attended the joint committee meeting yesterday had the opportunity to speak. Many questions have been asked, including by the ladies and gentlemen of the senators; these were very detailed questions concerning the solutions proposed in the bill. Of course, there were also questions and concerns on the part of the public. I would like to say with all my power here and stress that all sides, both the social side and the senators present, understand the emergency situation in which we have come to work, i.e. The obvious possibility of developing the epidemic has been raised by the fact that it is important to act quickly in the context of this decision. But at the same time we all paid attention to the many errors that unfortunately were included in the process of this law in the Sejm. Also, the government side, which referred to specific questions, tended to think that... is willing to change certain provisions and articles, to improve them through the amendments made. People directly interested in particular areas also stressed very strongly how much this law will affect their activities and how it will change their activities in some areas. I'm just going to list a few areas, and I'm not going to discuss the entire bill exactly. However, I would like to point out that the law, in addition to the provisions that order or clarify cases related to infectious diseases, also interferes, among others. in the activity of self-governments. The question was raised that the decision-making at the level of the voivodship and voivodship was actually cut, and the local government de facto becomes merely a contractor, is not treated on a partnership basis. The change also affects employers, entrepreneurs and strongly interferes with their activities. The concept of remote work is introduced. Entrepreneurs and employers stressed very strongly the fact that the imposed various types of decisions that would affect their activities may result in a reduction of their direct activities, such as they have in accordance with their statutes, and demanded Maybe they asked, but they didn't demand, that's a bad word. Government support whether it's in the form of tax relief or compensation. This law was also addressed by pharmacists and doctors. Here, with particular power, I would like to stress that the issue of securing medical personnel, doctors and nurses directly working with the sick is extremely important. We all know that there is a shortage of doctors, which is why wherever a doctor can work, and if this epidemic expands, help to control it, and give advice to the sick, this role is extremely important. Therefore, it is incomprehensible that the record appears in this specialization that when reserves are released from the Material Reserve Agency, this will not apply, for example. medical practices. It seems to be a detail, but such details, ladies and gentlemen, consist of life. In medical practices, there are also a lot of staff, a lot of doctors and you must not ignore this group, and she will not be able to use these resources, e.g. from medical devices. On the issue of doctors, there were also topics and discussions on the provision of care, especially for older people, for the lonely. Perhaps reversed care should also be considered, i.e. the arrival of a doctor to the patient, not the other way around. Those topics and these challenges the sense of strict medical was really much. There were also voices such as those that fell here from the Chamber, that perhaps such a special act is not necessary at all, that it would suffice to introduce a few amendments to the law on infectious diseases and on crisis management and that such amendments would be sufficient in terms of the smooth operation of health services in the event of an extended epidemiological action. There have also been very good remarks as to whether the State is properly prepared in the event of a crisis. Because since such a special act appears in this case, in connection with security, health security, in relation to this epidemic, whether such a situation will not be widespread and in any case, when there is any threat, we will act from the specialist to the specialist. As I said, at the meeting of the Joint Committee, we gave the floor to all interested parties. Very emotional was the presentation of representatives of event companies, which at present are actually completely unemployed because there are no orders. They called, with full understanding of the market situation, for the government to take some kind of action to support such entrepreneurs so that they would not fail and fall. So, ladies and gentlemen, this special act is not a law that deals only with health problems, with the sanitary regime and with epidemiological constraints, but What I've been trying to draw here a little bit It intervenes very widely in the various spheres of economic, social life and in the various activities of individual organisations and local authorities. The committee meeting lasted, as I said, four hours. After the debate, after listening very carefully to the social side, but also to the voices of government representatives, we decided that we would adopt this proposal without amendment, with one important condition, that we would immediately start working on the amendment of this law. Why was such a decision taken? Well, as I said, government officials emphasized very strongly that this law helps them to make immediate, rapid decisions. I don't want to block those decisions. 'Cause it's about the Ministry of Health and the government getting on with their work. We agree to adopt this law, but at the same time we really see the need to amend many articles. Our proposals for change have been supported by government representatives. Ministers also saw the need for an amendment and agreed during the discussion that there was a need to clarify the provisions for certain articles. So in the end, we decided in consensus to recommend to the High Senate that this draft be adopted without amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Lychek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Senator rapporteur discussed in detail the course of the committee meeting. We know that there has certainly been talk of an epidemic of Coronavirus, the one we are so afraid of, which is not and, hopefully, will not be, and if it is, it will be very mild and mild in effect. I am interested in whether it was also mentioned, in my view, a more dangerous epidemic of panic, the effects of which can actually be horrible. Has there been an appeal to those who do everything to make this epidemic of panic spill into the country and bring great damage? Was that what we were talking about, Senator? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u5	Senator, the Senators of the Health Committee are mostly doctors. We are fully aware of the fact that, in the case of morbidity, and especially of this type, when we are talking about a possible epidemic, we need to be as far away from causing panic and fear as possible. Absolutely not the point, Senator. We were talking about reliable information and that information should be addressed to society, because society is lost. Unfortunately, health education in our country is bad, it can be said that it is not actually there, and that is why society feels lost in such cases. As a doctor, I wouldn't want information about how people are supposed to behave when exposed to infection to be transmitted only via the Internet or through the media. I believe that there is a health minister and a health inspection to provide reliable information on how to proceed in such a case. And once again, I would like to stress that no one, in the Health Committee, or at the joint committee meeting yesterday, caused panic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u6	Thank you very much, Senator. This remark is extremely right, because it is a political class responsibility to pour oil into the turbulent sea. I agree with the senator here that the worst thing that can happen is emotional instability. The question is Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u7	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Madam President, please tell me which law specifically prohibits medical practitioners from supplying necessary personal protective equipment against the virus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u8	As far as I remember, Senator, it's eighty-four, but I'll check it out. If you don't mind, I'm gonna check it out right now, and I'm gonna hand it over to the senator, okay? Good. It's in my notes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u9	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs Senator, in your assessment and in the assessment of the joint committees, does this draft law offer maximum guarantees, even though there may be a discussion on the scope of human rights protection, freedom of trade, powers of public authority... Isn't it that this bill gives a full guarantee and instruments that potentially, if God forbid, this epidemic has developed in the territory of the Republic of Poland, public authorities and all institutions have the full scope to counter the effects of this epidemic? Thank you. I'd just like to draw your attention before the senator answers that the senator is asking for the senator's personal opinion... No, or... ...and you're the committee's rapporteur. Was it in this meeting... This, Mr. Marshal, is a modification of the question. Did the discussion in this regard indicate that the senator could answer such a question? The bill was government, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u11	Mr. Senator, I think the maximum guarantee in medicine will never be given, because these are extreme and unpredictable situations. And even if we don't know what laws we've prepared here, something extraordinary can always happen. But I would like to make it clear that the committee's meeting also stated that it was enough to amend the 2 laws that are already in legal circulation, because most of these provisions are actually transferred from these laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u12	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you. The bill was filed by the government. Mr Michał Dworczyk has been authorised to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work, a member of the Council of Ministers, the head of the Office of the Prime Minister. Please summon the Minister. Minister... I know, I know, but he left just when he'd probably be asked to speak. Maybe a five-minute break... He's here. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister. I would like to add that the Minister informed me that when about an hour and a half of the session was over, Minister Paweł Szrot, replacing the Minister, would be in his role. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I have the honour to provide additional information and also to refer to the words that have already been made in the High House in the context of the preparation and content of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with two words about why this law and whether the possible actions mentioned here by the former senators were late or late. Well, I would like to remind you that in January, the World Health Organization in its communications referred to the coronavirus as a local problem as well as an intra-Chinese problem. It was only on 20 January that the ECDC identified the coronavirus as a threat to the countries of the European Union. On the same day, a communication from the Chief Health Officer appeared on this issue. It is therefore really difficult to accuse a delay in the operation of the relevant state services. It was only on 30 January that the WHO announced that this was an important threat to public health in the world. Poland and all Polish services controlled by the government and, as I said, the relevant, subordinate entities involved in monitoring and preparation from the very beginning when the coronavirus appeared. The forces and resources involved in these preparations grew as the problem became more serious. Today the virus is in Europe, there is the first case of infection in Poland and today is a completely different situation than two months ago. Such a view that the development of the situation is a surprise for most European countries and in the world, it is best for everyone to make pictures or film materials from France, Italy or other countries around the world. I think that as a Polish country... Well, we certainly haven't avoided any mistakes, because it's impossible to avoid it, but I think that today we can be satisfied with how the Polish services reacted to the imminent threat, the threat that is already materializing after the announcement of this first positive sample. So in the last few days, in the last week, we have decided, in consultation with President Andrzej Duda, that we need to adopt a law, a law that will give some tools to the government to act in this extraordinary situation? These are specific solutions, ladies and gentlemen, in fact in some cases they are far-reaching solutions. That is why this law, in the part where the most radical solutions are mentioned, will only last for six months, and after three months the government will have to present a detailed report before the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Today, a certain level of trust in power is needed in Poland. I thank you for the voice that appeared in the Chamber, calling for us, as politicians, to approach communication in a way that is responsible for this situation. This law contains solutions, I believe, indisputable. These are e.g. solutions such as the possibility of paying additional benefits for an additional 14 days for people who have to take care of children, when nursery, kindergarten or school are quarantined. This law indeed also provides for solutions such as the issuing of decisions by the President of the Council of Ministers to entrepreneurs when the situation so requires. Well, you could say it's a nuclear weapon. But, ladies and gentlemen, apart from trust, let's use logic as well. After all, it is known that none of these tools will use without need, because it is simply very risky in the political world. But sometimes it may be necessary. Today we are dealing with a similar situation where an objective problem is the lack of disinfectants. This problem exists also in France, and in Germany. For this reason, decisions have been taken to prohibit e.g. export of certain medical articles to direct them to the internal market. Well, here we're trying to... the government has made a decision to deal with it in such a way as to increase the production of this liquid, which is why Orlen is switching one of the production lines of the sprinkler fluid to mass production of this liquid. And great, Orlen is a company controlled by the State Treasury. But let us imagine another situation, that there is an economic entity that has no sense of social responsibility and is not interested in taking such action in agreement with the government. Then the government must have the tools to respond to the public's health and safety. But I stress, I hope that most of the records in this bill will never be used. What I would like to stress in conclusion is rather unusual for the conditions of the Polish Sejm procedure to proceed on this project. And I am not talking about a quick mode, because we have actually dealt with this bill within one day, during a one-day session of the Sejm, but it is about a certain discussion and consensus that we have managed to work out over political divisions. Why? That's because it's politicians. And this, I think, is positive for everyone. In such a situation, they can stand above the partitions. I would like to conclude by asking the Marshal, the High House, to approach the Senate in a similar way, so that the bill is passed at today's meeting so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. And I stress what Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said yesterday at a meeting with representatives of opposition clubs at the Prime Minister's firm: we are open to any dialogue, any conversation, any proposals that can positively affect the situation in the country in the context of the fight against the coronavirus. We are open to both discussion if there are legislative ideas and organisational solutions. Of course, we cannot promise that every idea, every proposal will be accepted, but we can promise to have a serious conversation and dialogue, because this issue should unite us beyond the current policy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u14	Thank you very much, Minister. Would any of the senators like to ask a question to a government representative? Senators may report from a place of no more than a minute of question, of course related to this item on the agenda. There you go, Senator Dorota Czudowska. Minister, since there are questions, why don't you come back...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, during yesterday's discussion at the joint committee meeting It lasted not more than 4 hours, but more than 3 hours, but it was turbulent and fruitful, there were many voices, why such a law and why in a very accelerated manner, why it was not enough for an additional law on the prevention of infectious diseases. 'Cause everybody said it was enough... I mean, not everyone. There were so many voices that it was enough to amend that bill by adding this disease unit, and it was not necessary to create a new law, specializations. That's one question. And the second question... I would like to return to the question that I have asked the president, because the concerns raised by the General Medical Council are that some doctors may be deprived of the possibility of buying anti-epidemiological protection measures just because we ced it all on wholesalers... This is understandable to me, even if there are black market prices, so it must be controlled and the sale of such funds must be made by one source. Can some doctors really feel threatened not to buy masks? Or gloves?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u16	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u17	Senator, first question: was it not enough to amend the law on infectious diseases? Well, it wasn't enough, because the bill we're proposing is much wider. She, for example. introduces the possibility for voivodships to issue instructions and decisions to local government units. It would be difficult to put such records in the bill you quoted. Similarly, with an example already given of the decision of the President of the Council of Ministers, which can be taken in an extraordinary situation. Well, the range of areas in which the state must intervene in such extraordinary situations is much wider. And that's why a special bill was needed. As far as the second question is concerned, this law also introduces certain possibilities for regulating prices. And of course, the government of the Republic of Poland will do everything to ensure that these protective products, such as you mentioned, masks or gloves are not missing. Although it is important to say honestly that there is a problem with them all over Europe. France is facing this problem today, and Germany is facing this problem today, and for us too, this problem is a challenge. But we are launching various kinds of actions that, I'm sure, will lead to securing these articles. For now, we've activated the reserves of the Material Reserve Agency and there's full security for hospitals.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u18	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Jacek Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u19	Minister, I'd like to ask you two questions. The first is: during the procession, was the situation of entrepreneurs and employers in Poland taken into account when writing this law? Because the Italians have already learned from their epidemic and in the most vulnerable regions in the red zone, in a situation where companies have to be closed down, the government relieves entrepreneurs of some of the fees or takes on half of the wages of workers who are fired at the moment. With us, in this bill there is no, I have the impression, any records that would make it easier for companies to operate at a time when the epidemic will eventually develop. I hope that's not the case. But the fact that this epidemic wasn't supposed to develop is what the minister told us last week and a few more people... No, no, I don't think you were here last week, but the Ministry of Health was the Deputy Minister. It was assured that everything was under control, and suddenly, from Friday to Monday... Suddenly we go the other way, the pendulum leans forward and we need a specialty to deal with this problem. So so that we do not have the same situation because we are not thinking about companies now, and in a moment we will find that we have a wave of bankruptcy and there is a problem, we would have to lean on this issue. I know that right now we need a lot of records from this bill to help people. But it wasn't thought of, I have a feeling, about entrepreneurs. And second question, if you don't mind. The Agency for Material Reserves. You said here we were prepared. I happen to be from Lublin, where we have a company that produces, among others. sanitization measures for hospitals, and I know from the hotline that just three weeks ago this company was addressing the Material Reserve Agency with a proposal to sell funds. There was no interest, they heard: moms, we're not interested. And now there's a line of hospitals, just as the Material Reserve Agency asks: produce 24 hours a day because we don't, we don't. So there's an understatement around here somewhere. And you say that these measures are, and I know that the agency is asking for production. Because from Germany and France, we're not actually gonna get it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u20	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, first of all, the situation is under control. If someone says otherwise, it means that they do not refer to facts and try to arouse unnecessary emotions. This bill we're adopting is a preemptive act. We don't want to be reactive, we don't want to worry about the problem. We are preparing a law which, as I said, in a large part, I hope will not be used at all. But we have to be ready. Because that is the responsibility of every government, including the government of the Republic of Poland. Now you're asking the senator about the business situation. You are right, in the last few dozen hours, the Italian Government has presented some solutions, yet very general, without details, because we are monitoring everything that is happening with our foreign partners about the potential problems of entrepreneurs. If any company has 25% In view of the situation with regard to Coronavirus, limited revenues will then be some kind of relief or other aid will be offered. I stress: this is a matter of the last few dozen hours and there is not yet precise information on this issue as regards the Italian Government. In Italy, more than 3,000 people are infected. Right? Fortunately, we have 1 person for now, although this number will certainly increase, it is a matter of days. Let us hope that the actions taken by the administration will not result in some avalanche increase of the sick, but today we are thinking about this matter in advance. This topic appeared yesterday at the meeting of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki with opposition clubs, mentioned this by the Prime Minister. Today, the Prime Minister invited the Government Emergency Management Team to attend the meeting at 5 p.m. in the Cabinet of the Prime Minister's Office. Ms Emilewicz asked for proposals in this area, precisely in response to the problems raised by entrepreneurs. So believe me, Senator, for us, every field of life, the economy in particular, is important. Third specific question on the Material Reserve Agency. Forgive me, but I cannot relate to the decision or situation of any company. I'll verify that. I said one thing. The fact that they are satisfied for the time being with the running reserves of the Material Reserve Agency. So please, let's be precise about what we're saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u22	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u23	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question about issues relating to the state budget. According to this speciality, it is possible to move funds within the various headings of the budget and it is possible to support local governments. And now I have a specific question. As I understand the mechanism is that if new tasks for local governments appear, they can be granted these funds from the vending machine. But does it work the other way around, I mean. If local authorities in Poland can submit their own proposals to the Council of Ministers in view of the legitimate situation, for example, this applies. Do not give God, epidemics, or the need to carry out any measures related to the prevention of epidemics. And the Council of Ministers will then grant such measures? And as part of these shifts between cannons... Is this at the request of the competent minister? This is done, I understand, by a resolution of the Council of Ministers. Yes? Am I right or am I wrong? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u24	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. First part of the question... The resources from the crisis reserve, which is at the disposal of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, are for use. They can be started on an unchanged basis, as has been the case so far. That's one thing. Secondly, as regards transfers between departments, this is actually due to the possibility for the Council of Ministers to adopt a regulation, whereby further appropriations can be mobilised in any way for any needs which will be signalled, verified and interpreted as necessary, measures to take action. So that this record, which the senator cites, causes that... well, resources can't be missed, because you can from any part of the budget if you need it. I would like to stress: I hope this will not happen. Move it and run it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u26	Thank you very much. Does anyone else have any questions for the Minister? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you very much. I invite the deputy Ombudsman, Mr Stanisław Trociuk, who asked for the floor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u27	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Since there were voices in the public debate concerning restrictions on the rights and freedoms of the individual involved in the work on this law, the Ombudsman sent the position to the Marshal of the Sejm, pointing out some solutions to this law which raise doubts regarding compliance with the basic law. There is of course no problem in the Ombudsman's assessment as regards the limitation of personal freedom due to the need to combat infectious diseases or the use of forced hospitalisation, quarantine, epidemiological surveillance. In this respect, It must be recognised that the provisions of this law correspond both to constitutional standards and to the standards resulting from the European Convention, in particular Article. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) However, some of the solutions contained in this law raise some constitutional doubts. This is particularly the case for Article. The 12th Act, which provides that for the design, construction, reconstruction, renovation and maintenance of construction works, does not apply during this transitional period, i.e. within 180 days, construction laws. That's, among other things. means that the provision which requires an investor to have a legal title for the property on which he will carry out the investment does not apply. In the ombudsman's view, this in itself does not raise particular constitutional doubts, as it may of course result in a temporary seizure of real estate for public interests. However, the problem seems to be that although art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of that law provides that, after 180 days, the applicable Article will cease to apply. 12, this law does not regulate at all the consequences which may arise from the application of this Article. 12, i.e. a situation in which someone in an area not owned by him, without a legal title, will make some kind of construction investment. The law does not regulate how to resolve the problem of the actual and legal consequences that may arise as a result of such an investment, which in the opinion of the Ombudsman may raise doubts regarding compliance with constitutional standards for the protection of property rights and property rights. The rights of entrepreneurs have been mentioned here. It is in this context that certain doubts are also raised by the introduction of a provision in the law on the prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans which allows the Council of Ministers to temporarily reduce the scope of business activities. This provision is not followed by a solution which would regulate the possible compensation for losses incurred resulting from the reduction of business activities pursued by businesses. Finally, changes in education law and higher education law must also be pointed out, where it is foreseen that, in cases justified by exceptional circumstances threatening the life and health of children and young people, the Minister responsible for education by regulation may temporarily restrict or temporarily suspend the functioning of educational systems within the country or part of the country, taking into account the state of emergency. The problem which is related to this provision, as well as to the corresponding provisions of the Law on Higher Education, is, in the Ombudsman's view, that there is no proper precision in regulating this matter, and that is because, in fact, any health threat can be the basis for suspending the functioning of the units of the education system. These provisions also do not specify the maximum time for which the functioning of educational units can be suspended. What does that mean? That means the minister can stay for a week, but if he can do it temporarily, he can do it for a year as well. It seems that maintaining the constitutional standard would require much more precise regulation here, and in particular the legislator's determination of the maximum period for which such suspension can be made. The same concerns also the suspension of the functioning of higher education institutions. Finally: the article must be pointed out. 30c education law. It provides that the Minister responsible for Education and Education by Regulation may exclude the application of certain provisions of educational law, the Law on the system of education and the Law on the financing of educational tasks in respect of all or certain educational units. This means that the Minister has been given the authority to repeal, in principle to an unlimited extent, the laws governing education law. According to the Ombudsman, this regulation remains in conflict with the Article. 92. 1 the Constitution, which refers to the implementation of the laws by the Minister and not to the suspension of their application. Consequently, this provision also appears to be in conflict with the principle of division of authorities resulting from Article. Article 10 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1. Because if the minister can repeal Parliament's laws for a certain period of time, he enters, in my opinion, into the matter that belongs to the legislator. These are the comments made by the Ombudsman, in agreement with the fact that the intention of the bill is right. Of course, in times of epidemiological danger, the legislator should respond adequately, but it is the duty of the Ombudsman to draw attention to those areas which raise doubts in terms of compliance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u28	Thank you very much. At present, senators may ask you questions from a place of no more than a minute's duration to the Ombudsman. Are there any questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much. Thank you. I have a question for the representatives of the government present. Would any of you like to take the floor on this bill? Minister Paweł Szrot. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u29	I'm very short. The bill was, of course, referred to at the meeting of the joint committees and in the plenary session of the Senate by Minister Michał Dworczyk. I took part yesterday in the debate on this submission at the joint committee meeting. I would like to thank the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, regardless of the political option, for the fact that there was a very clear understanding of the intention of the bill and of the need that it should enter into force quickly. Of course, this does not close further discussions on the individual records. I would like to repeat what I said at the committee meeting, that good rules can be improved to make them even better. This is an open case. With regard to the opinion presented by the Ombudsman, I would just like to say that the exclusion by law of certain provisions of the law is currently functioning under the Law I don't recall anyone raising the constitutionality of this record. We've just transposed this entry into our bill, extended it to the premise of an epidemiological threat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u30	Thank you very much. I will immediately ask if there are any questions for the Minister. There isn't. Thank you very much, Minister. Would anyone else from the government like to speak? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As the President said yesterday, the joint committees, the Legislative Commission and the Health Committee adopted a law on the prevention and prevention of and fight against the coronavirus, and adopted this law without amendment. We have adopted this law without amendments because it is worth using every new tool to combat the epidemiological threat. There are, of course, good solutions there, e.g. concerning additional childcare allowance for parents in the event of school or kindergarten closure or the possibility of fixing maximum prices for medicinal products and medical devices, i.e. those examples of masks and disinfectant fluids, when an attempt is made to use the situation in a flagrant manner and to raise prices in an unreasonable manner. But unfortunately, this law contains numerous legislative and substantive errors. I'm not gonna discuss it any further here. all legislative errors, you can read them in the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. You can say that substantive errors are included in 4 areas. I would like to say this very clearly: none of us are saying this to criticize a government project. We are saying this because we are following the words that have just come out of the Minister's mouth, that the rules can be improved to make them even better, and that the State I'm saying this to the government, of course. You do not exclude further work on projects. ♪ Behind us yesterday ♪ a multi-hour discussion on this subject. The areas that are particularly worrying us, as I assume, will still have a chance to say, I will now only say it in password, without going into details. One area that you asked Senator Dorota Czudowska about is whether or not doctors from the so-called. Medical practices may fear that they will not be able to purchase e.g. The masks. Ladies and gentlemen, in the amendment to the article. 20, in the following article. 85a pharmaceutical law reads: pharmaceutical wholesalers are obliged to dispose of medicinal products and medical devices exclusively for other pharmaceutical wholesalers, pharmacies, pharmacies and medicinal establishments. Ladies and gentlemen, in Poland, for 130 thousand doctors according to the data contained in the Centre for Health Protection Information Systems It's official data, 92,000 828 doctors have so-called. private medical practices. Well, this recipe is zero-one, I'm sure we're going to want to change that recipe. The health care system is doctors in hospitals, but the health system is also doctors who receive patients not only with the coronavirus in the hospital, but also with ordinary influenza in the clinic, not to mention that the doctor has no guarantee of course, with which the patient will actually come, not every time the patient will behave as it was in the case of the Green Mountains, and there is no doubt that this provision in connection with its sound must be amended in order to leave no doubt as to its application. Besides, it's another rule, it's an article. 25, for a change, says that the Minister of Health can trigger the release of medical devices from the Material Reserve Agency, and we have a repeat of the same sound: hospitals... Of course the hospitals. They're in the foreground when it comes to the fight against the coronavirus. But why didn't the Minister of Health leave such an entrance so that, in justified circumstances, they could also be activated in the context of, for example, Doctors with private practices? Another area that had already been mentioned was also the Ombudsman. It's human rights. Here, in a special way, it is the editorial of the article. 11. I'm not gonna talk about the details anymore. The next area, of course, is the whole sphere of the fact that these regulations, whether we like it or not, are also deeply interfering with the economic world. All these requirements, the obligations that are imposed on entrepreneurs, of course, can cause certain costs. If we have an article that says that in the case of planning activities related to the implementation of the order in the future costs are borne by the entrepreneur, then I have no doubt that this provision must be amended. If a State imposes obligations on anyone in relation to health protection, it is the responsibility of the State to bear the costs associated with the imposition of that obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, let me repeat once again: no one makes these comments so that there is an unnecessary emotional dispute here. However, we have decided to amend these provisions and we have announced that we have already started work on the amendment. So that for me government declarations are extremely important, because we are already after meetings with senate legislators. At this point, I invite government representatives to a special meeting on Tuesday, where we will talk to all interested parties. With local authorities of medical professions, doctors, nurses, pharmacists, representatives of economic environments and social organisations, including patients' rights How to improve these rules. The point is to make such missteps as they are in this bill. And I say it as gently as I can. In the future, avoid. I assume that also next week, the Legislative Commission will adopt a draft law amending the bill under consideration today, of course, if today the Senate in plenary adopts this law. 'Cause that's what it takes. We will prove that not only can the Senate work quickly, but it can also constitute a good law, because before such an obligation we never shirk, and in the case of this law there can be no substantive doubts that it needs to be changed immediately. We accept it in the sense of responsibility for the life and health of patients, as well as in the sense of responsibility for the life and health of patients, we declare that it needs to be revised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u32	Thank you very much. Senator Alicia Chybicka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u33	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that in a time of pandemic threat That's really been threatening us since January 30, when it was announced... So it is really high time to take effective action to save as many lives as possible in a situation when this pandemic in Poland appears. Although for today we have one disease and far away even to the endemic, let alone to the epidemic. Coronavirus is a special virus. The disease caused by it got the name COVID-19, and this disease is quite dangerous pneumonia. It should be emphasized that in this situation, peace and lack of panic are the most important. But what are we gonna do? Is that what we understand as panic? It's buying goods, pressing... However, it is not information. Information is necessary, it is necessary for every Polish woman and every Pole. And that information has been missing since January. She appeared at the moment, and indeed at the moment we are in health care and everywhere we are covered with specific timetables indicating what to do. But it's all a little late. That's why it's a cross-party agreement. For there is nothing more precious than human life. Here it is necessary. We know that at the moment there are confirmed cases of 100,000 diseases, and there are over 3,000 300 deaths, of course, all over the world. The symptoms of this disease are exactly like those of the flu. What I said here was that there wasn't any information... But there's also a lack of knowledge of how many people who have actually caught Coronavirus have undergone this coravirus infection and are now walking between us is in our country. Why am I talking about this? Because every viral infection has its stages and there are diagnostic methods to recognize it. And these symptoms are identical to those of the flu. So the first question that wakes up is whether all this year's death And there's more of them than there was last year, and all the cases of disease were actually flu, is it a coronavirus infection? Of course, we'll figure it all out. But what's really important is the prevention of endemia and the epidemic of prevention. And it's asked to be universal access to diagnostics. And that access isn't there. I have the impression that Coronavirus tests are regulated. That is, people who report with such symptoms as are mentioned in these timetables, i.e. coughing, feverish, or flu-like symptoms, bounce from the system door. And they may have coronavirus, even if they haven't been in contact with any of the endangered districts. That was the case, for example. with the first ill in Italy. The same can happen in Poland. And the question is, why is there no availability? Why have we done just over 660 researches in a 38 million-dollar country to date? Why? This disease is really dangerous if it develops. I've said many times here that according to the article. 68 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland has the right to health protection, regardless of the material situation, and public authorities provide equal access to public-funded healthcare services. This time we are dealing with a paradoxical situation. Well, you can't take a test with your own money, although at the moment there are a lot of tests on the market. There are three stages of the Coronavirus study. There's a genetic test... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm not done yet. This infection... When a coronavirus goes to a human being... A healthy man, a child will defend himself, he will often go through it asymptomaticly, but he will sow around. If it eliminates this virus, the result of the RT-PCR test, which is currently being done in Poland, will only come out negative, although this someone has already passed this virus. It is therefore necessary to extend the studies to IgM and IgG antibodies. IgM antibodies arise immediately after contact, whether there are symptoms or not. If we were doing these tests, we would have an accurate view of how many people in Poland are infected with the coronavirus, how many are in active defense, how many are only flu-like symptoms. We would also know how many people have produced IdG-class antibodies that often protect us for the rest of our lives. This should be done, this has to be done. Then you'll really know how many people in the Italian regions... Full planes landed in Wroclaw and Warsaw, while in Warsaw at least the temperature was measured and in Wroclaw at the beginning was not. Now there's actually some kind of control. It was spring break, and in those days a lot of Poles came back from Italy. And I'm sure some of them have, except they've had a asymptomatic infection. It's very important not to panic. One thing to know is that according to WHO, 0 to 10 years of age, mortality is 0.0. What does that mean? That means there's not a single child in this group of 3,000, 300 people. Then it gently goes up. The next group has an indicator. 0,2, then 0.4. Who's the most at risk? People over the age of 80 are most at risk. Unfortunately, this diagram shows over 14 percent mortality here. In the group between 70 and 80 years of age, this is 8%. And in the group between the 60s and the 70s, it's 6%. And the view changes completely when we look at data on age groups. The infectors I spoke to draw such a picture that Poland is not prepared for an epidemic at all. Why? Because there are not enough infective doctors, and most of these doctors are elderly doctors. They are often retired. The second group is mothers with small children. In case, God forbid, anemia, if kindergartens and schools are closed, then these mothers will have to stay with their children. It's a good thing... a lot of mothers ask that question. That's what this bill is for, so they can stay at home and get paid for it. What will all this bring to health care for the sick? Undoubtedly, in such a situation, military forces, all military doctors, will need to be transferred to the places of the infectors, as well as the expansion of the hospital bed base. It's already happening in Wroclaw, as far as I know. I've even been sent photos from the field hospital and from the two emergency rooms. I want to highlight one more thing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what the infector said, who asked me not to mention his name. Well, little children are extremely dangerous to those in these age groups I was talking about. What does that mean? That means, unfortunately, I'm the grandmother of five grandkids. Granddaughters are dangerous to their grandparents and care in the event of an epidemic cannot be fulfilled by these grandparents. The question is, what is the quality of these tests... Mr. Senator, last minute. What is the quality of these tests, and why did not all the actions that are currently taking place after 30 January? What I said may not be entirely related to the law itself, but it has to do with protecting human life as much as possible, because it is priceless. If there is no epidemic, it will be wonderful, but if she comes, there is much more to be done than what is written in this bill. I can't help but notice that she has so many mistakes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u34	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we will be very urgent about the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases. Just a week ago, during a debate called by the votes of the Senate majority, with the opposition of the PiS Senators, we did not hear from the government, the Ministry of Health, the Chief Health Inspector, such an opinion that we would need a new law to be able to fight the epidemic of Coronavirus effectively. More importantly, we haven't heard it from authorities in the field of viral or epidemiology. Ladies and gentlemen, the government which is responsible for the country's epidemiological safety, however, wants to have such a tool. It considers them necessary, actually pressing on Parliament to adopt the so-called 'as soon as possible'. Specialist. This is happening in a politically hot period. We have appeals not to politicalize this case. I don't think it's necessary. Nobody in the opposition does that. I am in favour of this law and the immediate transition to its amendment and repair, but mostly so that the subject of this law no longer be the most important, because it is not the law that we will fight the Coronavirus. It will be combated by professionalism, knowledge, lack of panic and listening to the recommendations of specialists and equipment, tests, tests, security measures, the work of doctors and nurses, diagnostics, etc. During yesterday's meetings of the Joint Committee on Health and the Legislative Commission, I pointed out the need to quickly equip hospitals with personal protective equipment, with the necessary equipment. Patients with COVID-19 may not only appear in infectious diseases. After all, if this disease expands at least a little bit, these patients will be hit, for example. With heart attacks on cardiology, strokes on neurology, they're gonna have some injuries, they're gonna be in trauma. And that's why what's going on right now, the addition of only infectious diseases and emergency stations, seems far too late at this stage and far too small. At my request, I heard from the Deputy Minister of Health: "We've had an epidemic of flu since October. I'm surprised hospital directors didn't take care to protect hospitals and employees from the virus. It is the responsibility of hospital directors to keep the staff healthy, because if they are healthy, they can treat. Well, if we have a situation where hospital directors are supposed to deal with the virus, then why the whole bill? Anyway, it was adopted so quickly. Why all the special powers for the government? Why is equipment now being delivered to emergency stations and infectious troops, since there are directors there who should take care of their employees from October? If anything could have affected the vote on this bill, it's this inconsistency. We need to get and communicate clear messages. Either COVID-19 is a disease such as the flu, which, as usual, is to be dealt with by POZ and indebted, underfunded and suffering from the lack of hospital staff, or it is necessary to mobilize all responsible for the health of Poles, including above all politicians. On behalf of hospital staff, with whom I have constant contact at their request and even request, I appeal to speed up all the measures that are necessary to secure epidemiologically hospitals and therefore patients in all branches. Let us adopt this law and move on to faster, concrete actions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u36	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I came to you today straight from Wroclaw, where the Polish Towns Association gathered, several hundred local government officials from all over the country representing nearly 350 cities. And I do not hide that I have come here on their behalf to say that the local government is concerned about the situation in the country, not only related to the coronavirus, but also with the legal regulations that local authorities can burden to a large extent, which unfortunately are left to themselves today. Senator Łyczak said here that panic must be prevented first. Okay, there's a very simple cure for panic prevention. You just have to tell the truth. The truth will set us free. You have to tell the truth, and there will be no panic. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a good bill. She has many good solutions, yes, but she's underdeveloped, and she can become, as the Minister said here, a nuclear weapon in irresponsible hands. I hope that doesn't happen. Ladies and gentlemen, the local government will manage in crisis situations, but it cannot be that the local government is to execute, to execute only orders. I will just remind you that most hospitals in Poland are self-government hospitals, so it is the local government that is responsible for their functioning and takes responsibility for the financial situation of these hospitals. The question could be asked whether a local government should participate in the implementation of the law. At the same time, it should be clear to what extent. As a sort of self-government representative, let me say this: we have a lot of comments on this law. Since it will not be corrected today, we will report all these amendments as soon as work on the bill begins... We are prepared as a local community to make such amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the easiest thing to do is to hold press conferences, and it's harder to fight on the front line. I came to you from Wroclaw, but I am a resident of Lubuskie Voivodeship, where we have the first case of coritos, and I have hot information, firsthand, from the infectious hospital in Zielona Góra. Ladies and gentlemen, so far, an infectious hospital in Zielona Góra has received assistance in the form of 400 masks. And 40 one-off suits... so many suits were promised, and there were nine of them. This is the hospital where we have this first patient, so-called. Patient zero. That's why I was talking about the truth. Voivodship Hospital in Zielona Góra, local hospital according to the information I received, I spoke with the marshal It's left to itself. Three units in the hospital have been locked down. They're not functioning. The hospital, which has not yet been in debt and has been in good financial condition, is already generating losses. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm a little upset about the chatter, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down so the senator can finish his statement. Ladies and gentlemen, I got some hot information from the people at the Green Mountain Hospital, news like this: in Zielona Góra, the hospital ends with a supply of masks, suits, aprons, nurses threatening to leave their beds. This is a local government hospital... and I keep saying that the local government is on the front line, fighting, but it needs real support, not just press conferences. Did you know that the Marshal of Lubuskie Voivodeship has not been invited, not once, to a meeting of the crisis staff? The voivodship organizes press conferences, the crisis staff gathers, and the Marshal of the voivodship responsible for the local government hospital, in which the first case of coronavirus is not invited at all to the meetings of the crisis staff. She had an invitation today, and I think she was involved. I'll get to that. Today was the first meeting not within the local government staff, only the governor sent his deputy, your vice-voivod of Perczak... The first positive signal, Mr. Senator, was today and today in this magazine, I have this letter sent, there was a promise that the hospital would get 1000 masks and 300 suits for the first time is something in writing The Lubuskie voivodship will receive PLN 5 million. So far, local government officials, the people responsible for the hospital, did not know whether to shop or look for any additional equipment or materials. Today yes, Mr. Senator, indeed, there is a letter that 5 million zlotys will go to Lubuskie voivodeship, of which the infectious hospital in Zielona Góra, where this patient is zero, so to speak, will go to 2 million zloty. At least there's something in writing. And lastly, ladies and gentlemen, let me say this. I receive dozens of letters and requests not to vote for this bill. I have this; if anyone wants, I will show you all the comments that are being made. But assuming there is a higher necessity, I will not vote against this bill, and our circle of independent senators will have no discipline in the vote. However, I hope that, after this bill has been passed, we will soon begin to work on a new law, to which these amendments, I hope, in this hot, hot work, have been introduced in a non-intended way, and that hospitals and local authorities will be able to carry out these tasks, which will fall on their shoulders, but already according to a good, revised law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u38	Thank you very much, Senator. There you go, Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u39	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Unipersonality, oppression, discretion, prerogative, sanction. These are the terms they use to talk about this law entrepreneurs who ask me to respond in person, in writing, by e-mail. Unipersonality, oppression, discretion, prerogative, sanction This feeling in a democratic state, which we have been building for 30 years, should not be felt in Poland. I think there's something wrong with our country, paraphrasing the words of our newest Nobel Prize winner. We need to consider in this House, if not today, because most of us, with higher values, life and health in the general public, will probably vote in favour of this law... I would like all of us together, regardless of political options, regardless of the colour of the card, regardless of the personal history of life, political and party activities, etc., to begin work, which Mr Kwiatkowski also announced next week, on the amendment of this law. The point is to get her approved today so that she can act as one, but so that we can act absolutely quickly. And since we're talking about medical matters, you can use the medical language here. They surgically cut out all those laws, those paragraphs, those phrases that shouldn't be in this law. Why do entrepreneurs use these terms and phrases, let me remind you: one personity, oppression, discretion, prerogative, sanctioning? Namely, this law does not provide for any support for entrepreneurs, and it is they who build the strength, including this financial, not only economic, state, but also the budget, from which the ruling party distributes to the left and right. No relief or remission is foreseen in the event that entrepreneurs are not affected for economic reasons, even if not due to the effects, possibly indirect, of the epidemic Let's hope not. But because they followed the State's orders. Even in such a situation, support is not envisaged, and this is simply unacceptable. There is no mention of the possibility of using the Polish law of the institution to suspend business activity with all this effect. You don't take it into account, and that's a very serious charge. The situation of micro and small businesses. Well, you can't treat big companies, big companies, employing thousands of people, and an entrepreneur who employs 2, 3 people or 5 people. Let us remember that in the case of the application of many of the provisions proposed here, there may be a situation in which the entrepreneur, especially the small one, will go bankrupt. So where is this country that requires its responsibilities but does not declare support or compensation for the costs of carrying out these responsibilities? And many responsibilities are introduced, also in my opinion unreal ones, such as: new reporting or reporting obligations. These obligations are to be introduced within 24 hours, regardless of the cost, and they can be up to tens of thousands of zlotys, because it is a question of buying new software, implementing it, etc. That's one thing. But this is not just a question of threats to employers, entrepreneurs themselves. We are also facing a threat to the market and fair competition. There are certain wordings here, too. I will quote some of them: palism, brother-in-law, nepotism. Such things are feared by Polish entrepreneurs and citizens in general, especially after recent media reports. And where is the source of these fears? In abolishing the obligation to apply the Public Procurement Act. In such a case it is understandable, here you must act suddenly, quickly, very quickly, but you should foresee a specific transparency building system, selection of contractors, suppliers, service providers, etc. There's nothing here about it. In fact, someone can decide for one person what they buy or what they order, how many millions, who they go to and who they don't go to. Of course, it is not only a question of possible waste of public money, but also a breach of the principles of fair competition, because in this case another company may have difficulties in carrying out its business. To conclude, High Izbo, I believe that for economic and economic and financial reasons, as well as for the burden that may fall on the shoulders of entrepreneurs, this law must be carefully examined and corrected, as well as in respect of infringements and threats relating to civil rights. It's often difficult to distinguish and separate. I'd say you don't even have to try. The rights of the citizen and the rights of the entrepreneur, in fact, are the same rights. There are many violations in this area. In a democratic country that we want to develop, such laws should be very, very, very limited both in terms of standards and in terms of duration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u40	Thank you very much. Senator Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Senators of the Law and Justice Club, I would like to declare that we will vote in favour of this law without amendments, and in line with the recommendation after yesterday's deliberations of the two joint committees. The purpose of this law, against the threat of an outbreak of the virus marked COVID-19, is that we all already know it and watch it on television, as it looks, on electronic photos And this law, drawn up by the government in such a short time, maybe not all spheres yet include, some are not satisfied here, but she is coordinating today, at this moment of struggle with time, all services which have any influence on the possible potential epidemic in Poland to master and weaken its effects. And this law does not only apply to doctors, nurses and pharmacists, or to workers of sanitary and epidemiological stations, with the chief inspector, GIS at the head. Because we've known our responsibilities forever. Which is why I'm gonna say right away that I can't understand how hospitals or clinics can work without a proper supply. It is an obligation for every hospital and clinic to have a supply of dressing supplies, a life-saving tray that is in every unit, to be, with medications whose term of validity must be checked every now and then and which must be supplemented with cameras... Well, all that serves to save human life and also to protect staff, every hospital must have. The current rules state that the hospital must have a supply. There must be a supply of masks, gloves. I've always studied every patient with disposable gloves. Once that it's hygiene, and two that it takes me less time to change gloves than to wash my hands after each patient's examination. So even such practical meaning is involved. So all hands on deck, all medical services, but also the Minister of Finance, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Ministry of National Defence, pharmacy and pharmaceutical industry, public administration, local government, and, of course, it must be, I think it would be unnecessary and overlooked if she didn't feel that she was equally important in preventing infection with this virus. Hotel services, catering, tourism, higher education... All this is, Ladies and Gentlemen, included in this law, including the section where we are talking about changing the existing regulations in the laws. The priority for this law is to protect the lives and health of the population. Economic affairs, with all due respect and all sympathy for all those who, if you don't give it up, God, will develop, will lose... But this priority is the life and health of the population living in Poland, all And workers from Ukraine and China and Korea, all of whom we host in Poland, not only those of the Polish nationality. We regret that there may be economic losses, but these economic losses... If the losses are incurred by entrepreneurs, investors or others who participate in the creation of the state budget through taxes, the State will lose most of all. Because if they lose entrepreneurs, they'll lose the state budget because of less taxes. Not to mention how much you need to spend to deal with this dangerous epidemic. So, Mr. Senator Szejnfeld, we know that if there are casualties... Yeah, but you're gonna have to force a single tourist not to give up on going to China because he's gonna jeopardize the carrier or his tourist office. Well, make him do it so he doesn't make that decision in this situation. So let us keep the right balance in our approach to this topic. Yesterday at the committee meeting, we heard very often in the senators' statements: hide, God; protect us, Lord... Well, we should actually thank Providence for the fact that we Poles, that Poland had a little more time than other countries, to prepare for what is waiting for us, that we had time to draw up such a law that other European countries envy us. We are talking about the need for calm, not causing panic, but whether such words that fall here, from this place, that every Polish citizen should have a test done... It's absolutely impossible in any country. I'd like you to examine all the Chinese who have this number... It's... Says who? Professor Chybick said that everyone should have a test done because everyone is potentially in danger. We can't tell people, we can give the public information that suddenly causes some sense of harm, they raise questions: and why I don't have this test, he did, and I don't have it. We can't do it. No country is able to perform preventive tests on all residents of Poland. These are words that cause panic and undermine the sense that the government cares and takes the most serious approach to anything that may be related to the infection of the coronavirus. There's also talk of it. It's been going through here. That there's not much information. Ladies and gentlemen, this, I don't know, I don't think you're watching TV... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Every... every... every... every... No, we're not. I'm talking about television, I'm not talking about public television. I watch everything. In commercial television stations, and in public it is to be bored, information has been given for at least a month about the fact that there is such a disease in the world, about the observance of... First it was China. Let me remind you that we brought... Senator, one minute. ...Polish people from Wuhan who were then quarantined. The simplest way to prevent infection that we can pass on to everyone is to avoid people's places, to avoid epidemics, to wash hands thoroughly and often. Enough is said in the media. We have a hotline: 800190... Senator, time's up. Then I'll finish up after the senator says... Actually, I'm almost done. Okay? If it's gonna be a minute, yeah, no problem. Okay, that's my extra five minutes... If we suspect that someone close to you is infected with a coronavirus, there is a high temperature, above 38, 39 degrees, coughing, shortness of breath and it was possible to contact a sick person who was somewhere abroad. We're staying at home, we're calling a hotline or a POZ doctor, just like he did, exemplaryly, our zero patient, and we're waiting. The proper services will take care of us in a manner that is consistent with the rules of medical art. Finally, I would like not only to thank the Senators of Law and Justice, but all the senators present in the Chamber, all the health workers, all the officials of the sanitary and epidemiology stations, who have been committed and extremely zealous for more than a month, conscientiously, except for the hours and their own losses, taking care of the sick and ensuring that they are as little as possible. And time... There's a race against time, scientists are developing a new vaccine. God bless them in this work so that it is as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Alicia Chybicka wanted to speak ad vocem and I at the moment... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shh. ... ...Replies. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal, Senator Czudowska missed the truth a little bit, because in my speech, I absolutely didn't say that everyone had to have a test done. There's a difference between what I said... I said that there should be universal access, i.e. the possibility of paying yourself for the test, especially with the ELISA method, which costs 100 PLN, not RT-PCR for 500 PLN. And by the way, I join in congratulating health workers, especially the ones closest to me, from Cape Hope.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u44	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Senator Tyszkiewicz has already spoken here about the fact that there are many voices coming not only to him, probably to all of us, that we should reject this law, and in the Senate the opposition has a majority and could indeed do so. In fact, we have faced a dilemma because the number of comments to this law is above average. After all, various laws come to us and there are laws to which there are few, or amendments and laws can easily be made. Here there are a lot of these comments and they are often important. Legal authorities have also expressed their views on this matter and stated that there are solutions that go far beyond the need and that there are doubts about a broader nature. I am obliged to say this because those who have made such comments and who believe that we should decide to reject them should also hear why we are doing things differently. Part of that was said here, of course, but I want to develop some threads. Namely, the rejection of this law will not only delay its entry into force. This is without doubt because she will have to return to the Sejm and only the Sejm would possibly reject our veto, but there would be no amendments, and if we had made such amendments later, then of course the whole thing would have shifted over time. On the other hand, in response to the question why we are not proposing amendments now, which would obviously speed things up, I must say that there are issues here which are quite easy to make amendments, there are legislative issues, which are probably due to the urgency in which this law was drawn up, but there are also more serious issues. Such important matters include e.g. the relationship or impact of administrative decisions on businesses. Senator Czudowska, just a little bit, so to put it, placed this problem in the background, not to say a little more, saying that if this is an epidemic, everyone will lose, entrepreneurs have to deal with it, etc. We don't think about this situation. Here are situations much simpler, without any epidemic. It is enough that one company, only one, will have an employee who will be a carrier, so there will be a risk of infection. It could end up like half the crew or the entire crew, depending on the size of the company, will be quarantined. But that's the thing... This is not a situation that the Polish state cannot endure. This is one company, maybe it's about 30.40 people. This company must have a guarantee that in such a situation the losses will be covered and this is not in this law. There are many other issues, some of which have been mentioned here. There was talk of construction law, about a very wide exclusion. There was talk of decisions made by the Minister of Education. There are various vague statements. In the law on the organisation of defence tasks, which so far has only talked about situations where different tasks can be imposed on companies when there is a threat to state security and during the war. It can be seen that these are very serious threats, suddenly added: as well as in situations of danger to human health or life. Well, it's a vague term that shows that we don't really know how many people are going to be at risk, how far they're going to be at risk, etc., etc. That's not what you do in legislation. What I'm trying to say is that this kind of legislation is causing some suspicion. Because if it was said that it was an epidemic, an epidemiological threat, we'd know what was going on. The concept of a threat to human life and health is an extremely stretching concept and is included in the Act on Defence Tasks. The same is true of the suspension of the functioning of the university. What I'm saying is that universities are institutions where grown-up people learn and are managed by grown-ups and smart people. So it is really hard to assume that in a situation where there is a serious threat, the university rector will not make any decisions, or will not respond to the request of the relevant authorities. This is the treatment of the authorities of these institutions as children. Finally, the 180-day case that maybe wasn't mentioned here. This case has been brought up. I would like to say that the constitution provides for emergency states, provides for natural disasters. In the case of natural disasters, there are 60 days with the possibility of extension and 90 days with the possibility of extension in the case of exceptional conditions. And there really isn't... I know the argument, I heard it was analyzed and that in this situation it should be 180 days. There's no... In a situation where such a far-reaching right of interference in civil rights and in the activities of undertakings is introduced, this period should not be unduly extended. If there are 90 days in the case of exceptional conditions, then this is the case, and if there is a need for extension, then the government will always be able to file an extension law two weeks before the expiry of the deadline. All those things I mentioned here will be the subject of our work. However, with these comments we decide to vote in favour because, as Senator Kwiatkowski said at the beginning, there are important, good solutions here. And they can actually be needed immediately. An example is benefits for parents who are forced to take care of their children in case of school closure. These cases, I guess, are already happening. The law should therefore immediately give such an opportunity. Parents can't be alarmed if they get any support or not while they stay at home. The same is true for maximum drug prices, as well as changes in hospital funding rules for preparedness It's already happening. or provision of funds to hospitals in the event of damage. There are a lot of sensible provisions here to increase the powers of the Chief Health Officer or to amend the law on infectious diseases. So that in this situation we have come to the conclusion that the optimal solution is to adopt this law, to vote in favour so that it can enter into force as soon as possible, but with this announcement, which has been raised repeatedly, and showing that there are real grounds and real reasons for making such an amendment. Now I can only accept positively the declaration by Minister Dworczyk and Minister Szrot that they are open to change. I understand that not everything must gain their approval, but it is important to approach it with some openness. Well, we'll see what it looks like when this project comes into force, and that'll be soon. Then we'll see how the government reacts. It's just to quote the old Latin maxim: hic Rhodus, hic salta; here's Rhodes, here's the jump. So we'll see how it works. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u46	Thank you very much. For the sake of order, I inform that the senators: Aleksander Szwed, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Ryszard Świlski, Marcin Bosacki, Beata Małecka-Libera, Jerzy Wcisła, Adam Szejnfeld, Janusz Pęcherz, Stanisław Gawłowski, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Magdalena Kochan, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, Jadwiga Rotnicka, Jacek Bury, Ewa Matecka, Barbara Zdrojewska, Janusz Gromek and Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I'm ordering a 10-minute break. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held after the break. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 57 to 17 minutes 07]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u47	Senators, please take your seats. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting was convened on 12 and 13 March 2020. In view of the sitting currently underway, this will be the seventh Senate meeting, which will begin on Thursday, 12 March, at 11 a.m. The order of this meeting has already been provided to you by electronic means. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The Legislative Commission and the Health Commission have submitted a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 83 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 Senators voted, 74 in favour, no one opposed, 9 abstentions. [[Voting No 1]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the sixth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Would any of your senators like to speak? Mr. Senator George Wright.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, Until 10 March, consultations are underway on the strategic location study of the Central Communication Port's investment. My concern is the omission in the railway program of Elbląg and the leaving the largest white spot in Poland of the area excluded from the range of high-speed rail connections including the northern part of the Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship, i.e. powiaty: brazwski, bartoszycki, lidzbarski i elbląski. As a result, some 300,000 inhabitants of our region will be excluded from the high-speed rail network impact zone. The town of Elbląg is the only more than 10,000 city outside the Central Communication Port network. At the same time, it is a priority investment worth PLN 2 billion, i.e. I measure the channel by measuring the city to make the fourth port of the Republic of Poland. Investing such large amounts in the development of Elbląg and simultaneously excluding it from the national communication network is logical. In addition, just 100 km from Elbląg, there are some 400,000 inhabitants of Kaliningrad. The central center of the Kaliningrad region, inhabited by nearly 1 million inhabitants. And among the assumptions concerning the CPK was the attraction of passengers from cities and regions bordering Poland. For the above reasons, first of all, I ask for a change in the route "Szprechy" No. 1 "Szprechy" are called the main communication lines connecting with the Central Communication Port and Warsaw "i.e. the one from Gdansk: from planned by Włocławek and Grudziądz to the route leading through Elbląg, Malbork, Iława, Działdowo to Warsaw. In the original version of this route, Grudziądz would need to build about 300 km of the new railway network, while in the case of the route proposed by me it would require only 70 km. A large part of this route is already modernised. In addition, it will include 2 large railway cities, i.e. Malbork and Iława. Moreover, as I have already indicated, it creates good conditions for the inhabitants of Kaliningrad region to use the CPK. Second conclusion: the lightening of the direction by Grudziądz and Włocławek from the stream of passengers from the Tricity will allow for a cheaper cost to connect these centres with Bydgoszcz and Torun, and through them With the Bydgoszcz section of the CPK network, which is closer to the regional links of these cities. They are all located in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region. Third conclusion: extension of the "Olsztyn' No 2 extension of the "Lidzbark Warmiński' section, i.e. About 40 km. This investment would be important for the activation and strengthening of the tourist benefits of the border area. I will add that in the warmińsko-mazurskie voivodship, which belongs to the least developed in Poland, sections of new railway lines and those modernized are the shortest. These comments will be taken into account, inter alia.: the development of the Warmia-Mazury region, which, as one of the least developed regions in the European Union, deserves development support, not to exclude it from central projects; the better use of existing railway infrastructure and to nearly four times shorter sections of the new railway network necessary to build, which will result in lower investment costs; the inclusion of large and medium-sized centres and regions of northern Warmia and Żuław Wiślany within the scope of the Central Port of Communication; the connection by the fast train of Gdańsk and Elbląg, centres facing each other due to the complementary nature of industrial development. Please take these important proposals into account for the consistent development of all regions of Poland. I would add that the design of the submission of proposals and comments in consultation with the use of the website in principle prevents the submission of merger applications, which, as in this case, are made up of several so-called ones. Speakers, and when submitting their application, shall not be given feedback that they have been accepted. The proposal shall be accompanied by a map of the railway networks taking into account these proposals. Thank you very much. [[The presidency includes Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u49	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator George Fedorovich. Let me remind you that it takes five minutes to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u50	Your dear marshal reminds me, and I'll say it in a minute. Dear Minister, this is a statement on the lack of availability of medical cannabis, the raw material of Cannabis sativa L., Red No 2. This raw material was sold out completely last year, and another batch reportedly does not meet the requirements of the relevant standards. I am not a specialist in this area, but after discussions and meetings with patients who use cannabis, expressing their concern about the lack of availability of these medicines on the market, I ask the Minister to intervene. I will add that patients have urgent prescriptions to save their health, but they have not been able to implement them for a long time. This anxiety, turning into fear, further destroys their health. I'm adding the relevant documents I received in this case. Jerzy Fedorowicz. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u51	Thank you very much. And then please, Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u52	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to read the statement, and in fact, the call of the Senate Group on. The development of the Silesian Voivodship, which was signed by the senators present at today's meeting: Halina Bieda, Beata Małecka-Libera, Marek Plura, Wojciech Piech, Ryszard Majer, Wojciech Konieczny, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Dorota Tobiszowska and Joanna Sekuła. We call on the government of the Republic of Poland to take into account the protest of the inhabitants, among others. Bolesławia, Dąbrowa Górnicza, Kroczyc, Łaz, Mikowa, Ogrodnica, Ornontowice, Sławkowa, as well as the position of the Silesian Botanical Garden expressed in connection with the beginning of the strategic study of the location of the government investment of the Central Communication Port, including the railway programme covering the passage of high-speed rail corridors. We call for an extension of the public consultation by the end of March, which would allow all interested parties to comment. We hope that the opinions of the inhabitants and researchers, currently outlined in the public consultation process, will influence decisions that will not destroy the long-term costly investments of many municipalities. The content of this appeal is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. At the same time, we are asking the Prime Minister to hand over to the Senate's Group for Affairs. The development of the Silesian Voivodship information about the consultation activities undertaken, their results, as well as the final decisions taken regarding the conduct of high-speed railways in the Silesian Voivodship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-03-06-senat-06-1.u53	Thank you very much. The sixth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[End of session at 17 minutes 18]]
