ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.15, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 12, - Economy and Development - h.m. 12, - Public Finance - hour. 15, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - to State Control - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 19, - Social policy and the Family - immediately after the end of the votes, about an hour. 19. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u2	Thank you. Here you are, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation, a formal proposal. Please. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for a break and a convent of the Senior Convention to give the government a chance to introduce a resolution on the scandalous words of the Ukrainian ambassador on the national day of memory of victims of genocide by Ukrainian chauvinists on the citizens of the Second Republic. The Ukrainian Embassy on the occasion of the anniversary of the bloody Sunday in Volhynia posted an entry that properly equals the responsibility of the authorities of the Second Republic of Poland with responsibility of the murderers of the UPA. It is difficult to treat such an entry differently than as an insult to Poles provocation. Even on such an anniversary, the Ukrainian ambassador pushes the narrative that in Volhynia there was not a cruel genocide of civilians by chauvinist militias, but a symmetrical conflict. After such an entry, the Ukrainian ambassador should immediately be called to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, we expect the government to prepare a draft resolution during the break. I've got one if I need one. Now I ask everyone to stand up. Let's celebrate a minute of silence. it is the victims of genocide in Volyn, because they deserve it. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Let the sins be forgiven, O Lord, and let the eternal light shine upon them. May they rest in eternal peace. Amen. Amen.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u4	Thank you, sir. We will not vote on this proposal. You know it's not on the agenda. I won't announce a break, nor will I call the Convention. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law on support for the insurance market for commercial receivables in relation to the counter-productive effects of COVID-19 (prints Nos 431 and 482). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u5	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on the Work on Printing No. 431... [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, please. We've already started point one. Move the conversations into the cockroaches. Please listen to the report. There you go, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk. ... concerning the Government's draft law on support to the market for insurance of commercial claims in relation to the countering of the economic effects of COVID-19. The Commission carried out its first reading of the draft law yesterday and considered this proposal in detail. The impact of COVID-19 on the economy is quite obvious and poses a risk in the case of commercial transactions. Therefore, the proposal for insurance of commercial claims, which are subject to a much higher risk in relation to the pandemic. There is a risk that insurance companies will reduce their insurance offer. The value of commercial transactions is estimated for 2019 at over PLN 530 billion. If - as an example of 2008 or 2009 - there would be a decrease of 20 or 30% This would mean that the value of commercial transactions could decrease by about PLN 100 billion, and with an even greater scale of decline these effects would be much more severe. Thus, looking at the experience of 2008, also looking at how other European countries behave - here, among others, an example. Germany, which also introduced a specific risk sharing between insurance companies and the State Treasury - this law provides for, inter alia. the possibility of dividing the risk between the insurance undertaking in which the credit is insured and the Treasury. The discussion at the meeting of the finance committee was actually focused on a number of issues. I think the most important thing was to safeguard the interest of the State Treasury and set the upper limits of expenditure by the State Treasury. Given that it was not in the provision of the Act of this upper limit, but nevertheless it refers to commercial transactions from 2019 and the size of the exposure, and it is a limited expenditure comparable to those of 2019, it was considered to be a safeguard of the interest of the Treasury - the setting of the upper limit of expenditure. The Act also introduced a number of legislative and editorial amendments, including: the original draft deleted the word "for', i.e. the support of the social security market. Several editorial amendments were also implemented in the text of the Act - perhaps not even a few, but a dozen. One substantive amendment, where applicants proposed to shorten the deadline from 30 days to 14 days, the deadline within which the Financial Supervision Authority issued opinions on the contract and on the insurer, did not find acceptance. The Committee on Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt the bill presented in the report on the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u6	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jarosław Krajewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u7	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government's draft law on support for the commercial receivables insurance market in relation to the countering of the economic effects of COVID-19, print Nos 431 and 482. High Izbo! At first, I would start by saying that it has just been 110 days since the outbreak occurred in Poland. During these 110 days we had very tangible help for Polish entrepreneurs and Polish employees - over PLN 115 billion. We are talking about unprecedented government support in times of global crisis caused by Coronavirus. In this case, we are talking about effective measures aimed at protecting more than 5 million jobs in our country. The bill we are discussing today is an additional element of support for Polish entrepreneurs. In view of the economic impact of COVID-19, insurance companies can significantly reduce their limits or eliminate risk exposure in general to selected industries, counterparties or markets. Such a scenario would definitely be negative from the point of view of the Polish economy, because Polish entrepreneurs would have limited access to securing their transactions, resulting in a decrease in trade turnover and additional liquidity in the situation of limiting the ability to sell in the buyer's credit. The draft law aims to maintain the limits of commercial claims insurance by insurance companies at pre-pandemic levels. To this end, the government proposes to allow insurance undertakings operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland to re-insure part of the risk by the State Treasury. In this way, commercial receivables insurers will be able to reduce the risks associated with the possibility of increasing the number and value of compensation payments during the economic downturn. This should allow the protection of the transaction to be maintained for entrepreneurs on a scale similar to that of the pandemic. Under the Law, reinsurance will be implemented under an aid scheme which can be adopted by the Council of Ministers. The programme will require notification to the European Commission in view of the public aid envisaged in it. The assistance to insurance undertakings will be carried out on the basis of a contract concluded between the Treasury and the insurance undertaking concerned. This proposed solution is in line with the European Parliament Directive of 25 November 2009 on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance, which enables the Treasury to play the role of "reinsurer." last chance in the case of insurance of commercial receivables. It should be added that, at present, in at least a few European Union countries, intensive work is being done on similar solutions. It is worth recalling that the European Commission has so far accepted similar aid schemes, among others. Germany and France. This draft law provides for solutions similar to those already adopted and accepted by the European Commission in Germany. This is a reinsurance-based support scheme and risk-guaranteeing scheme for insurance undertakings. This law should have positive effects in terms of reducing the risk of falling commercial transactions carried out by Polish entrepreneurs, thus reducing the risk of significant deterioration of financial liquidity and the risk of insolvency of Polish companies. Consequently, with regard to the Treasury, this could lead to a reduction in the risk of a significant deterioration in the macroeconomic situation and a reduction in tax revenues compared to the situation if such solutions were not implemented. The intentions of the proposed law in our view are correct and meet the expectations of the market. This law aims to improve the financial situation of entrepreneurs and ensure that they maintain their liquidity. The bill implements solutions similar to those already implemented in other countries of the European Union in response to the global crisis related to COVID-19. Mr. Marshal! I would also like to make one amendment to this bill on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will support the proposed government bill on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u8	Thank you very much. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition Club, will now speak. Oh, excuse me, Mrs Semeniuk, just a moment, because the Minister, the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, has asked for the floor. You're welcome. But in this part? There's an explanation coming up. But it's between club speeches? I think it's for the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u9	But maybe you'll let me speak now. No, the custom is either before or after. I understand that the Minister has asked for the floor because he cannot attend? Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development Olga Semenik: Yes. Mr. Marshal! Thank you very much... But a government representative has to attend. I have important remarks. They will, of course. Let's hear what the Minister has to say. Scandal! Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development Olga Semenik: Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you so much for the opportunity to speak. In view of COVID-19 and its significant economic impact, insurance companies offering commercial receivables shall review their portfolios. As the Ministry of Development and the government, we get clear signals from the market that these insurance companies can significantly reduce the limits or eliminate exposure in general, and cuts may affect individual entrepreneurs, as well as entire industries or markets. Therefore, a systemic response is needed as proposed in this Act. In 2019 commercial receivables were insured for PLN 165 billion, including PLN 60 billion in exports. The insurance limits granted allowed Polish entrepreneurs to realise and secure more than 533 billion trade turnover, including PLN 118 billion for foreign transactions, representing a total of around 12% export of Poland. Depending on the evolution of the situation there is a risk that this exposure may be reduced by 20% to 50% compared to the situation before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, and this could mean a reduction in the limits of insured claims by PLN 80 billion. A significant reduction in insurance for Polish entrepreneurs will mean such a significant increase in the risk of transactions that will thus slow down trade and the economy as a whole. The immediate effect will be a significant deterioration of financial liquidity, including a significant increase in the risk of insolvency. For the State Treasury, the decline in commercial transactions will mean a deterioration in the macroeconomic situation and a reduction in the revenues of both CIT and VAT. The solution is designed to eliminate all these risks. The mechanism proposed in the proposal submitted by the High House will consist of the conclusion by the Minister for Development of properly standardised reinsurance contracts with insurance undertakings which wish to join the government scheme. Such reinsurance assumes that the State Treasury, in exchange for a permanent contribution from the insurance premium, takes over part of the insurance risk of possible claims. These levels of contributions will evolve: 80% , then 100% - after exceeding certain amounts of compensation paid. We are thus trying to protect the income and liquidity of insurance companies, while at the same time making the contribution of the State Treasury to the risk disappear after exceeding a certain amount of compensation. We set a safe limit to the state's involvement. The risk transfer relates to entire insurance portfolios. Insurance companies don't choose what they want to tell us and what they don't. It is therefore not possible for insurers to make a negative risk selection. Thus, we act systematically, but also protect the interests of the State Treasury against particularly risky obligations. This solution is modelled on the German mechanism, which is already successfully implemented there on a much larger scale. High Izbo! I would like to ask you to accept a draft in the form referred by the Sejm Committee. In addition, I wanted to add information related to yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, at which many questions were asked within 2 hours, which I tried to answer together with the Department of Investment Development at the Ministry of Development. As regards any questions that will be asked today, please make written submissions. We'll answer all of them, hopefully in the fastest mode. But that's not the mode. Madam Vice-President! All the questions that were raised at the committee meeting yesterday... That is why committees are set up to ask specific questions and answers. [[Applause]] You don't have to teach me. What? Are you teaching us? I would just like to add that yesterday there were questions about the Constitution, the rule of law regarding this project, so we are happy to respond by written means. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]] What a shoe. That was arrogant.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u10	Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The key thing is that you want to take over the risks generated by the free market without affecting its emergence. The main problem with this law is that there is no systematic control over the activities of insurance companies and factoring companies in Poland, because KNF as an overseer does not have any control over this part of the financial market. In this bill you are introducing an accident control, but it is insufficient, because this market is very often the subject of fraud, irregularities and fraud. The State cannot assume responsibility over this market without affecting the level of risk. Therefore, our club, the Civic Coalition Club, will make an amendment that extends the supervision of KNF to this part of the financial market in Poland. We really depend on the adoption of this amendment to support the whole law. Yes, today is the case that insurance companies have narrowed down the throat of insurance in debt trading. The truth is, they don't want insurance. But why won't they? Because they realise that today, the risk of a trade being reversed, the non-payment of debts by counterparties is very high and the ratings of individual counterparties can vary from day to day depending on the economic situation in each country. And you want to go into this place and guarantee, without having, like I said, system surveillance. I'll give you an example from last month. I wrote to the Financial Supervision Committee because one of my contractors, one of my constituents from my constituency, was the victim of an extortion. He had debts, claims insured by the insurance company. Although he had factoring with insurance without regression to the donor, the company washed its hands in case of implementation of the bill. I wrote to the Financial Supervision Committee asking them to check this transaction whether the factoring company and the insurer complied with the contract or whether they actually had grounds to transfer all responsibility to the supplier, to the counterparty. What did I get from the Financial Supervision Committee? They washed their hands. They said: we have no supervision of this part of the financial market. And for this part of the financial market, for the free market and its decisions, you want to take responsibility. This is a straight path to what we've been through in this country. It's about turning over like a SKOK. SKOK-i were covered by the guarantee of the Banking Guarantee Fund, but were not supervised by KNF, resulting in losses in the form of PLN 5 billion. The SKOKs did what they wanted, weighed the risk, as they wanted, there was no supervision, and the state paid 5 billion PLN with the money of citizens who were paid as a contribution to the BFG. You want to save the insurance system? Do it right. Because I'm not sure that today you're not going to start buying claims from colleagues, politicians, ministers, where transactions have already fallen because the bill will go backwards from April to the end of this year. How can I be sure that the risk will be adequately weighed, that insurance companies will cover healthy debts and such healthy debts will assume that in those fat, fat insurance portfolios that will eventually take over the State Treasury there will not be another five or ten large transactions of rabbit friends for which these transactions have fallen but will thus recover their debts? No, that's not how you do it, that's not how you secure the interest of the Treasury, and that's why you're a taxpayer. The Member here spoke of more than 100 billion money put into state aid, into the economy. Yeah, but it's not state money. This is other taxpayers' money. They will have to be downloaded from the market, including in the form of taxes. We must take care of this by guaranteeing public aid, which is to put the economy back on its feet, guaranteeing that this money is actually transferred where it is needed and not where fraud has arisen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The market for commercial claims and the insurance of those commercial claims is one of those markets which are more likely to be victims of fraud, fraud and fraud. You know that because you know these statistics. And there are companies that can have 6%. irrecoverable debts, a 6% risk level, and there are companies that can have 50%. The State should take care of its interests in this regard. Thank you, Member. I'm making an amendment. As I said, she is rational, she is in defence of the interests of the Polish state and Polish taxpayers. Failure to accept it will mean that you have impure intentions in connection with this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u12	Mrs Anita Sowińska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u13	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Everything looks nice from the looks of it. The Minister presented to us the objectives and assumptions of the project. Everything is supposed to appear professional and caring for the Polish entrepreneur, who faced the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, only that it is only a cover. Yes, we have a pandemic crisis. Yes, the risk of irrecoverability increases and influence decreases. It is understandable that in this situation we should find solutions that are appropriate to the situation. We are all going through a crisis, Polish entrepreneurs know it and are trying to find solutions to keep business in these difficult conditions. What do insurance companies do? Do they negotiate contracts with customers? Are they looking at the risks? Or maybe they don't pay themselves a bonus? No, no, no, nothing like that. They go to the minister and they say, "Look, my turnover is falling," you know, COVID, listen, add us the money from the budget, it's gonna be after the trouble, that $2.3 billion nobody's gonna notice in this mess. And the ministry stands for it. He's preparing a bill on his knee, he's in a hurry, he's doing it very quickly to make it before the holidays. It doesn't even hide the fact that the purpose of the bill is, and I'm going to quote here, to keep insurers' income at the same level as before the pandemic. So it's the government's concern to keep the financialists' income so they don't lose anything sometimes. It's clearly written in the explanatory memorandum. And don't think the government will take care of small businesses in the same way. Oh, no, no, no. They'll get a one-time survival benefit, just like the pensioners of the thirteenth pension, and then they'll be fine on their own. Everywhere in the world since the 1960s, governments have been using wars and natural disasters to enrich the rich. This was well described by Naomi Klein in her book "Doctrine of Shocks." Under cover of the fight against the crisis and its consequences, legal solutions are being pushed, which draw money from the state budget to large corporations. There are many examples, such as Chile and the USA. Do we really want to have such a system of aggressive capitalism as in the United States, with poor health care, where a person, when he gets sick, is bankrupt, in a country where, in order to educate a child, you have to take credit for a house? Managing a country is a question of how to divide limited funding: whether to spend it on salaries for teachers or to spend it on salaries for financiers, whether to make sure that everyone has the right to visit a specialist doctor or to give a 13th pension and say: manage yourself, pay for a cardiologist, for an ophthalmologist, for an expensive medicine, and if you can't handle it, that's your business. It is politicians who make these choices for us. And let me add that this money comes from taxes, which is hard-earned money. Now I'm going to refer to the bill. This whole cabinet of ministers, ties, is supposed to make it look like the project is being prepared professionally. Let's take a look at this professionalism. First of all, consultation. This is a government project, so by law it should be subject to an opinion, among others. by the General Bar Council, the National Council of Legal Counsels, the National Council of Experts, the Social Dialogue Council and others. These opinions don't exist. I'm asking you why. Why didn't this project stay? Consulted and pushed his knee just before vacation? Second, the constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, this project is rotten. A rattle wrapped in a nice box with a ribbon. Art. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Act states that the Council of Ministers can prepare a support programme for the market of commercial receivables insurance. This programme is intended to specify: diagnosis of the economic situation, expected effects, objectives of the programme, detailed implementation conditions, reporting method, evaluation of the effects and amount of funding for the programme. Beautiful, which is this article, art. 3, tells us that we are voting for a law that we know nothing about. We do not know the diagnosis of the economic situation, we do not know what the economic, economic and financial effects will be, we do not know what the objectives of the programme are, we do not know how the law will be implemented, i.e. how the state will sign contracts and what clauses it will enter into, we do not know how it will be reported, and we do not know how much it will cost. Yes, in the justification of the project there is a planned amount of more than PLN 2.5 billion over four years, but in fact in this article we leave a gate. The Legislature Bureau didn't leave anything on it. I remind the government that... Thank you, Member. ...in Poland, the sources of law are: constitution, laws, international agreements and regulations. There are no resolutions or programs in this list. In Hungary... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u14	Thank you, Member. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Coalition Poland our position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on support for the commercial receivables insurance market in relation to the countering of the economic effects of COVID-19. One might say in a nutshell: such another version of the next anti-crisis shield, unfortunately once again as holes as the previous ones, to confirm what many arguments have already sounded out of the mouth of the previous speakers. This project provides for the possibility for insurance undertakings to cede or so-called. reinsurance of part of the risk to the Treasury in exchange for the transfer of part of the insurance premium. At this general or general stage we would like to say: the idea is very noble, but let's get to the details. The new regulations are intended to lead to greater collateral for merchant loans for entrepreneurs. The solutions contained in the project are a response to the situation of the Polish insurance market - you claim to be a project developer. In the environment, in the context of the crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus, insurance companies review their offers, which could result in a significant reduction in limits or the elimination of insurance proposals for counterparties or certain industries and markets. Such decisions may result in limited access by traders to secure their transactions. Their trade turnover could also be significantly reduced. You claim that according to the project the Treasury will cover 80% of the compensation paid by insurance companies concerning the above mentioned. commercial claims in return for 80% of the gross premium. After exceeding the amount of compensation paid by the insurance undertaking under insurance cover of commercial claims less the amount obtained by the insurance undertaking as a result of regression proceedings in respect of those commercial claims, equal to 243% gross premium allocated from commercial receivables insurance in 2019, the Treasury will cover 100% the amounts of compensation. At the same time, the liability of the State Treasury for compensation payments shall not exceed the amount equivalent to 75% of the gross premium of the insurance undertaking arising from commercial claims insurance in 2019. In theory, it's all right. However, interestingly, the authors of the project also emphasize that German solutions are an example for Polish proposals. It is quite amazing, and not only in the context of the past presidential campaign, where this adjective German, German, was, and not necessarily in a good sense, changed. Well, when the Coalition of Poland, when working on all four anti-crisis shields, referred to examples of solutions just introduced in Germany, then the state was not interested, and such a key example was the liquidity fund introduced by Germany, today, which has a positive effect on the German economy. Here, you can see, the German solutions seem good, but it is probably not necessarily an argument convincing a large part of the High House today to vote in favour of this project, in its form. I think that on the part of the Polish Coalition there is such a advice for designers: pay attention to these holes and imperfections of this project. Unfortunately, the lack of precision will raise serious doubts and concerns, which also concern this, I will no longer repeat that this law does not only serve some. We must create solutions that will favour everyone, and our support for this bill will depend on how this project will be sealed and prepared by the originators so that it can serve the widest possible group of people to whom the solution is to be dedicated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u16	Thank you very much. Now Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I am amazed to hear about the losses caused by COVID. Well, it's cancer, flu, or viral hepatitis that's causing the damage. are much larger than caused by COVID. Even mortality is lower because the government has done nothing about it. In the COVID case, the government did something, and the cause of the losses is the government's actions, not COVID's. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u18	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, also near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u19	God bless you! God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Law of Izbo! Rule! Oh, the majority of Parliamentary! Crying - sometimes neglected form. Oh, the majority of Parliamentary! Stop hurting me, and you won't have to solve the problems you're causing. I recommend reading useful, fresh:.False pandemic. A false pandemic - a collection of critical texts of scientists and doctors. Attention. Ladies and gentlemen! Socialism is a system that solves problems and gets out of problems that have generated itself. And now this socialist principle in the socialist - well, that the Eurosodosocialist - the country at the head of which you are now standing - has been raised to power by the fight against the supposed pandemic. You have raised to the rank of the main principle of the system of the Republic of Poland the abuse of powers. You created a nebula of lawlessness, allowing the lives of Poles, including Polish entrepreneurs, traders, as well as insurers, to be subjected to the action of not law, serious law, acts of higher and highest rank, statutory, constitutional... You have allowed our lives, with particular emphasis on economic life, to be at the mercy and disfavor of power, which, through ministerial regulations and then changing in time at the pace of kaleidoscope guidelines for these regulations... And now you come again to the High House with solutions supposedly helpful. I'll say it again, don't hurt me. Stop supporting pandemic psychosis, stop exciting the coronation in the Republic of Poland. Direct the service and administration - after, of course, its proper weight loss - to their proper tasks. We will talk about this today when it is time to consider the vote of distrust for the Minister of the Interior, the coordinator of Kaminski. We will talk about the disgrace of a Polish police officer's uniform by directing officers to tasks that disgrace and embarrass the Polish Police. You don't do that anymore. Get out of this madness. Don't build state policy on the basis of disinformation that goes on foreign television on a belt. Do not submit, do not act as if you are on the belt of foreign television, but lead a sovereign policy. Open up the economy. Stop terrorizing customers and traders with these regulations and guidelines. Stop initializing catch-ups on normal people. Stop generating Gestapo in the Gestapo nation, enkavudian snitching that has already gone down in history, because you've blown it up. Reporting - that is the basic principle of social relations in the third and half Republic of Poland at the moment. Once again I recommend to the marshal and to the rapporteur - in a moment I will hand over a copy - a book called "False Pandemic," which thanks to the Osuchowa Foundation is now available. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, enjoy your reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u20	The questions have been raised by the Members. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. First Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u21	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! Art. 8 of this project goes strangely... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I would very much like to ask Members of the House to transfer their talks to the cockroaches. Art. The 8th project is strangely out of the scope of the law. It concerns the Polish Investment and Trade Agency, which was to replace the commercial departments of embassies. Unfortunately, instead of promoting the Polish economy abroad, the agency cannot organise itself. According to the reports of the Business Pulse, opening with an office pump around the world in many places has proved to be a completely inefficient, single-person activity having difficulty legalising activities or insurance of employees. However, the level of employment in the head office increased in 2019 from 10 to 40, i.e. by 400%. Art. 8 is a refill to PAIH, this time with COVID funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there any point in wasting more money on an inefficient institution costing us 100 million? The left shall make an amendment to the deletion of that provision. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u22	Thank you very much. The questions will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Support for entrepreneurs, job creation and the maintenance of existing jobs should be a task and priority of the government not only when it is COVID, but generally every month and every day. Whether people in Poland are doing business or developing entrepreneurship is affected by many elements. Not only are taxes important, but also the atmosphere in which people do business. [[Applause]] If there is no good atmosphere, any one-time help on the occasion of the COVID or any other occasion will never be sufficient. And the other thing. Take into account those proposals that are being made by the opposition. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you had considered this at the beginning when we were creating the COVID shield, this shield would have looked very different today. Please consider these proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Exactly. Don't poison this atmosphere, don't scare it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Basic question: Who do you really want to support? Are financial institutions, insurance institutions this time? This is the kind of support you've recently prepared for banking institutions. They're the ones you actually guarantee to keep the risk to a minimum, guarantee profitability by pushing money into private institutions without any control and without any supervision, as a colleague has already said. We are aware that transaction insurance is important for business safety as well. Mostly you should focus on export transactions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is an institution that you have under full control, which would suffice to recapitalise, I am talking about KUKE, so that the situation with regard to exporters in these difficult times clearly improves. Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition Club. The question is, do you anticipate... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Michael Szczerba. There's no envoy. Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left. Excuse me, earlier, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, also the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u27	Far away, Marshal. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The law presented by the government shows that the entire policy of the Government of Law and Justice is de facto wishful thinking and does not work. After all, you've done a recolonization, you've got your people at the banks, at the insurance companies. Now the minister comes in and says these people are going to cancel their insurance business. What was the point of all the recolonization when it was the way it was? You put your guys in there and it just doesn't work. Of course, entrepreneurs need to be supported, but what the government is proposing is a de facto exemption from corporate responsibility. The government refers, for example, to German, but the comparison, the Minister, the supervision of insurance on the German market and in Poland, by PiS, is devastating for KNF. I therefore have a question: How will the government protect the interests of the budget? How does the government intend to secure proper risk assessment, because there is nothing (Bell) on this subject in the Act and insurance companies will have guaranteed profits? So how are you gonna secure a proper risk assessment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u28	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What guarantees do we have for transparency and integrity when KNF controls how contracts and proposals related to the bill are implemented? As you yourself acknowledge in the explanatory memorandum, it is crucial to obtain an evaluation of the European Commission. Who will be responsible for the conversation time and their course and possible consequences? Is time and conflict with the European Union crucial here? The government will take full responsibility for the consequences of a possible failure of talks with the European Commission. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u30	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Probably the bill and these assumptions are going the right way, because there is no doubt that entrepreneurs in Poland need to be helped, while as usual the devil is in the details. My question is this. First: Does the Polish government have an assessment of the situation with regard to insurance companies? To whose conclusions, because I understand that someone has submitted applications, whether insurance companies or entrepreneurs, for such a bill to prepare... What's the scale of the problem today? Was this information presented by the Polish government? The second question is the question of discretion, here there was a lot about this statement. Don't be surprised that the opposition has great concerns that the government can put in place a program, the minister can refinance it. The question is: What amount is foreseen for possible operations and those refinancing operations (the bell) that are planned? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u32	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about two shortcomings in this project. Firstly, you are calling on the State to present a project for a government support scheme for the commercial receivables insurance market and this scheme has not been presented. So the main element of the bill we're talking about, the program, we don't know. The second big flaw is risk weighing. How can we weigh the risk if the State has recorded an optional request to the Financial Supervision Authority for an opinion on the implementation of the laws and contracts on the acquisition of guarantees for 80% of the insurance market, insurance portfolio, commercial receivables? These are two major deficiencies which, if not eliminated, will pose a strong threat to the reliability of such collateral for counterparties. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! You said you asked for the floor. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u34	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. Madame, your time is up. Member, please leave the stand. Your time is up. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The Act assumes that the State Treasury will invest PLN 2.7 billion in the implementation of this Law in the years 2020 and 2023. I have a question for the rapporteur. Mr President, you said in your report that solutions were adopted to limit the upper limit of the risk borne by the State Treasury. I would therefore like to ask: Will the solutions adopted by the committee during the second reading reduce the share of the State Treasury originally planned for PLN 2.7 billion for the next 4 years, but does this only seal this law and the level of involvement of the State Treasury remain at the assumed level? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u36	Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The submission proposes that the claims referred to therein be related to contracts with counterparties established or place of management in the countries listed in the Annex and are enumeratively defined countries. These are the countries of the European Union, the United Kingdom, Australia, Canada, Iceland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Switzerland and the United States of America. Of course, I have no reservations about the choice of countries, but I have reservations about why they were chosen at all, why such a group of countries, why this does not apply to all countries with which cooperation and trade is conducted. Why once again we forget our neighbours in the east, I mean Ukraine specifically. After all, trade and economic cooperation are very advanced between our countries. Why these countries, why such a limited number of countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u38	Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Frederick Bastiat said that a good economist is different from a bad economist, that a good economist is able to see these invisible, far-reaching effects of certain political and economic activities. I feel that the situation we have in Poland is not the responsibility of good economists from the government. I have the impression that even bad economists do not respond, but epidemiologists, who, without looking at the economic impact on the country, have found that the only purpose of the government is to fight this disease rather than another disease. [[Applause]] What effect did we have? Soon after closing the country, it turned out that the entire economy had stopped. This economy has been thawed, note, in a situation where all epidemiological indicators were worse than closing, which shows that this was a bad decision. And now, one by one, the next regulations are trying to save the economy whose condition (the Bell) is the result of the country's bad decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u40	Mr Killion Munyama, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two, maybe three questions. Will the Act secure factoring and forfaiting entities? Second question: To what extent will the risk of a fall in trade after the entry into force of this law be eliminated? And third question: Does the draft of this law provide for support for institutions such as KUKE, which plays the most important role in supporting foreign trade in Poland at all? And last question: Will the supervision of the insurance market be extended within the framework of the Financial Supervision Commission? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u42	Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the Act of 31 March 2020 called Shield 2.0, you introduced Article. 10c. What's in this article? 10c? There is talk of abolishing the responsibility of PiS politicians for exceeding powers, for causing economic damage, for violating the discipline of public finances. Minister, who is the author of this recipe? And the other thing. In such a situation, when Prime Minister Morawiecki, Minister Szumowski, claims that the pandemic is already behind us, we should still maintain this provision of the article. 10c in the COVID Act? Is the idea that the health minister's circle should continue to include entities, other ski instructors, more arms dealers who treated the pandemic as a gold mine? And how to protect, Minister, the Treasury from dishonest contractors? Why (the bell) no VAT invoices have been issued so far... Thank you very much. ...by an arms dealer, even though he received... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u44	The committee rapporteur, Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! One question has been asked by the rapporteur of the committee about the upper limit of the State Treasury's expenditure. So, of course, I'm referring to the article. 4 of this law, paragraph. 3 specifies that the State Treasury's obligation must not exceed the amount equivalent to 375% the gross written premiums of the insurance undertaking in respect of commercial claims insurance for the year 2019. As 2019 has already been completed and settled, this total amount will not increase. This is the 33% gross premium allocated. This gross premium for 2019 amounted to PLN 720 million, i.e. 375% this contribution gives the maximum amount that is possible in accordance with this law, i.e. PLN 2.7 billion as far as the Treasury is concerned, and this is the upper limit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u46	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the Government's draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act (prints No 455 and 480). I ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Yesterday, 14 July, a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets was held on the first reading of the Act amending the Act on Renewable Energy Sources, the Seym No. 455. This Act, an episode, will apply from 1 October this year. until 31 December 2021 It introduces a definition of energy wood that makes it possible to use the currently destructive surplus wood in forests resulting from the outbreak of Coronavirus for energy purposes. In the course of the procedure before the Law, a request was made to reject it at first reading. The Commission did not vote in favour of this proposal. The Members agreed to the legislative amendments and the date of its entry into force was amended on 1 July to 1 October 2020. This Act was notified by the European Commission on 4 June 2020. Since no substantive changes were made at the meeting of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets, the version of the law adopted by the Committee on Seym Print No 480 should be considered as notified. The Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets recommends that the High House adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u48	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak will be the first to speak on behalf of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to submit our position on the government draft law amending the Renewable Energy Sources Act, print No. 455. Yesterday, the Energy and Treasury Committee held a meeting and after many hours of discussion, the committee supported this project. The Minister gave detailed answers to the questions asked, which concerned the situation in Polish forests. The government project cleans up the forest economy and gives the opportunity to sell wood to the energy industry during the COVID-19 pandemic. The project therefore provides for a temporary change in the definition of energy wood contained in the RES Act. The project is compatible with European Union law. The Law and Justice Club will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u50	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Don't burn our woods. The EU summit on the 2021 budget will begin next Friday. Poland faces an opportunity to obtain an additional €8 billion from the Fair Transformation Fund, while the payment of these funds, as announced, may depend on the declaration of achieving the objective of climate neutrality by 2050 at national level. In short, Europe tells us to move away from coal and move on to renewable energy. What does the Polish government do? What is the Ministry of Environment doing? He is the only one in Europe who does not support the challenge of transition to climate neutrality by 2050 and is proposing a law that de facto allows smoking in Polish power plants in the Polish forest, which you call biomass. It is the stealing of Poles from natural resources, from biodiversity, from Polish trees. This amendment de facto launches today a dead definition of energy wood and allows for the sale of virtually unlimited quantities of Polish wood by December 2021. The Ministry's representatives calmed us down and reassured us yesterday that the amendment would not lead to uncontrolled scraps and exports of dead wood. But, ladies and gentlemen, the history of the brutal clipping of the Białowieża Forest, the extensive clippings that take place today, even in the Carpathian Forest, throughout Poland, deepens our lack of trust in you when you try to calm us down. The credibility of the Ministry's justifications yesterday also left much to be desired. The Ministry complained, among others. for the fact that producers in the wood industry do not buy Polish wood because of the epidemic and therefore it is not collected in the woods. Meanwhile, the Polish Chamber of Commerce of the Wood Industry tells us that difficulties in the disposal of wood by the State Forests have been increasing for years and are not due to epidemics, but to too high prices at which wood is offered. The Ministry is complaining about liquidity problems in the State Forests. We're worried about that, too. However, I ask: What have you done since 2015, since the publication of the report by NIK, which has clearly shown that the financial problems of State Forests come from high administrative costs, at high fixed costs, while the State Forests do not invest enough in the protection of Polish forests? In conclusion, this change, which you call a remedy for improving the finances of State Forests and a step towards the development of renewable energy, deserves the title of a law that devastates the Polish nature, biodiversity and, as a result, our climate and ourselves. We're not gonna let that happen. We want further work and good public consultations that have not taken place. That's why I'm making an amendment to your marshal's hand. Let me put it this way, paraphrasing Jack Curonia: let's not smoke our forests, let's plant our own. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u52	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll say the same thing: don't burn our forests. But let me remind you that since 2015, when the definition of energy wood was introduced, this government, this PiS-owska power... Since then, there have been constant adjustments to the conversion of State Forests not only into a board plantation, but also a fuel plantation. This is what you want to burn in power plants, you want to burn Polish forests, as if it were your property. It is the national good, the achievements of all Poland, all Poles and Poles. It is available without public consultation, without talking to anyone, with experts. Biodiversity is being destroyed on a scale that threatens the extinction of species. The only criterion is purely mercantile: cultivation of forests, i.e. a plantation for money, for destruction. The forest is more to Poles than such a plantation, the forest is our greatest wealth, just as our national parks and forests. Don't burn the greatest wealth we've got, because nature will not be returned to us. We do not owe this nature to ourselves or to any other authorities and other ministries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We must bow down and protect ourselves from this wealth. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u54	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u55	Dear Izbo! Mr. Marshal! Minister! Forests are essential for maintaining biodiversity and mitigating climate change, as well as regulating water resources. The climate and environmental crisis will affect us more, the worse we will protect biodiversity, biodiversity. The more we cut, interfere, the less prepared we will be for the climate crisis, for the climate disaster. This is a scientific consensus, these are facts. I know it sounds like blasphemy in some foresters' ears, but I'll remind you: forests aren't plantations, they're not farms. The balance of their functioning are not figures in the accounting documents of the State Forests. Forests are the common good, the good of all citizens and will be crucial to ensuring a safe future for all of us. In the meantime, what has Minister Woś prepared for Polish forests under the dictation of State Forests? A proposal for an amendment, which we can sum up with one absurd sentence: Now, in order to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, we will cut down even more trees in forests, burn them in power plants and pretend that this is what the European Union tells us to do. Oh, no, it's not. This proposal to extend the concept of energy wood is absurd in this case so that it can be considered as biomass. Biomass is allowed as RES in the energy balance, but only as an additional source. Plus, which is very important, in times of climate disaster, experts clearly speak, clearly show that we should leave this biomass, from energy wood. That's not the answer. And what Minister Woś offers us is the possibility of burning as biomass full-value wood coming from Polish forests. Contrary to what the Ministry says, this change will undoubtedly lead to the devastation of Polish forests. You say, "We're not gonna increase the clippings because there are plans to organize forests." How can we believe that if these pools are attached and the clippings increase from year to year? Minister Woś explains that tree clippings are necessary for sanitary reasons, due to the fight against pests. Yeah, that's an excuse. Of course, any excuse is good to increase the cut-off, just to emphasize: proper forest management cannot lead and does not lead to such drastic cut-outs. Minister Woś wants to cut dead, dying trees. Why? Because they won't bring money to the State Forests. But they are crucial to the protection of biodiversity. And this is not the first time when the future, when important solutions are rejected because only the profits of a few people who are now going to take good places in the State Forests and will be able to practice politics. This must be said clearly and clearly: The State Forests have huge revenues, about 9 billion a year. Even when it comes to the cost side, it's only 13%. is intended for the primary objective of growing forests and increasing their area. The temporary decrease in the revenue from the sale of wood will not shake the financial bases of this company. It can upset the salaries of directors, politicians that you employ as regional directors of State Forests. I know that this anti-Citizen government is not interested in dialogue with NGOs. We saw it yesterday, and we see it every day. We know that this anti-scientific government is also not interested in dialogue with experts. This is what we see in the daily work of the Ministry of Environment. Well, maybe at least when you're waving those banners like that. Entrepreneurs, listen to the entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs from the Polish Chamber of Commerce of the Wood Industry say that this bill is a disaster, it is a waste, that it is supposedly wood that no one wants to buy, they want to buy. They can't do that. Why? Because you've set so high prices that they're just going to No, no, no, no, no, no, They wrote to the Ministry of Climate, addressed the Ministry of Environment, wrote to the Ministry of Development. So? Did they see that outstretched hand? I don't think so. If we are already at the Ministry of Development - even this Ministry in its opinion to this law writes about its negative impact on the Polish economy sector, on the sector which employs 350 thousand. employees and generates 2,5% GDP. So why don't you talk to the Ministry of Development about what this bill will do to Polish entrepreneurs? We are making our amendments, but we also want this law to be discussed in the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry as a committee suitable for the discussion of forests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u56	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's not a RES bill. It is a law on the logging of forests, about the destruction of Polish forests. He is already misleading the audience with its title. Because what does burning wood with RES have to do with renewable energy, clean energy? We're just releasing CO2 into the atmosphere, burning. Very good. We release CO2 and now we're poisoning ourselves. And from here, sir, all these disturbances in the climate are there. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Plants need CO2]] And very well - let people drown, let them die. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: The greening of the Earth has increased by 15% thanks to CO2]] Yes, we can reverse the cycle in nature, and we will have this benefit. Why? But going back to the bill: burning wood in furnaces, in power plants is a very bad solution - and that's where you have to start - because it's no different than burning coal. We criticize burning coal, not moving away from black energy, but burning wood. If we're talking about renewable energy, it's 20%. This energy comes from co-incinerating today. And we want to increase it even further. That's right now, pour more wood into the furnaces. I remember a time when PiS was fighting the privatisation of forests. You've come up with this subject, you're going to defend the forest, you're not going to let it privatize. Every week at the meeting of the Sejm sleep. The minister spoke. [[Applause]] He spoke, saying, "We will not allow the privatisation of forests." Nobody wanted to. And now we're letting it go to the clippings. We're just gonna cut out the woods just to burn and cheat ourselves into having renewable energy. It's not fair. You're taking advantage of the COVID situation. Tough situation, etc., COVID owes everything, so let's go into the woods, cut down the woods, destroy the woods. We really should start thinking rationally about renewable energy. Today, when trouble begins - rational settlement will begin at the end of the year, if we have 15% whether we have - when we come to buy probably renewable energy or pay the penalty, we need to look for other solutions that they seemingly create - according to the law of course - but this law does not work... It doesn't work well because it doesn't fully protect us from pollution. Biodiversity, it is very important and very important, because today, when we talk about protecting forests, it means that we want to keep forests in their natural form, not mechanically do the cleaning and give it to the furnaces. If we look at investments in energy, we make a huge mistake, because we invest in these devices, which are with very old energy blocks, which in a few or several years, will cease to function in a few years and we invest in co-incineration. And the question is, what's next when these power blocks run out. What will we account for in renewable energy? Today we have the opportunity to obtain renewable energy from the sun, from the wind, from biogas, from clean sources - these are clean sources, natural sources, inexhaustible sources. We'll cut out the forest and we'll run out of renewable energy. He's growing. Take it easy. 100 years. However, we have the Sun, which can provide us with an infinite amount of renewable energy, and it is a pity that for several years it has been blocked, completely blocked the development of renewable energy. We recall the discussions here when it was said that we already have an excess of renewable energy, that we no longer need that we have paid a huge price. Today it turns out that renewable energy is much cheaper. I'm surprised we're going through today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the side of no green power... Thank you, sir. ...just black power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u58	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We look at the bill and we see a time-limited regulation introducing a definition of energy wood, and we see this as a solution to the problem that has arisen in relation to the epidemic. The problem, which is de facto, and this is rather a problem, I would say, a system, should not be solved by the next law, but should be solved - and this should be the construction of our state and our law - so that such problems that wood is lagging behind, are wood of inferior quality, chrust, spires, small-dimensional wood, leaves, bark, roots and carps, full-sized wood of inferior quality... The Sejm of the Republic of Poland should not deal with this, from the point of view of the legislator, the... [[Applause]] And that is the biggest problem with this bill, but unfortunately this is how our country is constructed. The Sejm should not be involved in the removal from the forests of the state pinewoods and shrubs. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this is rational. If we have to adopt such solutions to deal with this problem, it is rational. And, of course, the State Forests run the forest economy. Yeah, they run a forest economy. Talking about natural forests is some aberration, a misunderstanding. There are very, very few natural forests in Poland, ladies and gentlemen. What we have right now is most of the woods planted. Whether this ambush policy has been right for decades, and we have a problem with monoculture and other such things, this is a completely different discussion. But let's not say that these thousands of square kilometers of uniform culture coniferous forests are some natural forest in Poland, because it is simply not true, it is simply not true. That's one point. Second note. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening here today is very dangerous because we - and we should have a fundamental debate on this issue - face the threat of the European Green Deal. European Green Deal This is the destruction of the Polish economy in the name of ideology. [[Applause]] Mother of God! Man! European Green Deal This is, ladies and gentlemen, a threat not only to the destruction of our coal-based energy, but also to the threat of rising energy prices: already 20% We pay more for electricity. Now we have, this is the information from yesterday, the highest prices when it comes to emissions trading. What we have to pay because of the ideological, wrong policy of the European Union is growing rapidly. Today, the Polish state's reason is to reject these regulations. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Czech Senate has already paved the way for us, really. They're brave in our part of Europe. The resolution of the Czech Senate shows that Poland has an ally in a hard fight for reform of this ideological threat. Ladies and gentlemen, let us also deal with the myth that the violent elimination of Polish coal-based energy will change anything about the climate on a global scale. Poland emits less than 1% CO2 In Africa, because it's rapidly developing. There's going to be heights. Now that we're talking about stopping CO2 emissions, it's one simple, global solution to make a difference. It is about the widespread introduction of nuclear energy, also in Poland. [[Applause]] And all the crews are responsible for this nuclear energy lying there screaming. And PiS has been announcing for five years, Mr. President Duda in the campaign went to the United States, they were supposed to promise something, talk... Ladies and gentlemen, this is one big hustler. You want clean energy? Bet on nuclear power. That's the truth. [[Applause]] But we win the fight against global warming - it's cold.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u60	The questions were raised by 30 ladies and gentlemen. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. As the first Mr Andrzej Szewiński, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Don't burn Polish forests. We all remember the recently introduced law, which resulted in the devastation of the Polish stand. I'm talking about lex Szysko. We are now leaning over another bubble, which will allow cutting and burning as biomass of trees coming from Polish forests. Dead and dying trees will be burned, i.e. those that are not valuable for raw material production, but are crucial for protecting forest ecosystem biodiversity. I have the impression that the designers did not take into account that the cut-off and the systemic liquidation of the so-called. A tree of the state of the dead inhabited by species of fauna will cause many species of animals to die forever. I have a question: Is it true? [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the European Commission is conducting proceedings against Poland for the violation of the rights of the European Union in this... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u62	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Indeed, the project arouses emotions because there is a suspicion that, if we accept such a project, this is the moment, of course, this year energy companies will throw themselves at buying such wood. We're just gonna cut down the woods to burn them in power plants. Let me remind you that eight years ago this was exactly what happened and it was necessary to amend the rules in order to limit the burning of wood in power plants. My question is: are there at the moment European Union legislation which, as of 1 January 2021, does not consider co-incineration to be renewable energy? This is very important from the point of view of the law adopted. Second thing: What is the price policy when it comes to prices for entrepreneurs who operate in the woodworking industry? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Did the State Forests regulate these prices during the pandemic period? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u64	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u65	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! How easy it is to change the definition. Maybe it's better to say that coal is renewable, too. We'd have 100%. use of RES energy in Poland. After all, coal was also created from ferns, trees, forkbeards - all this is also renewable energy. And now my question: Wouldn't it be better to pass on this wood at good prices or with the help of good loans to wood processing companies? The point is that this wood is made of pallets, garden furniture, durables, not that this wood is burned in power plants. Well, Ostrołęka's still waiting for the dump, so maybe this wood will be a salvage to the Ostrołęka power plant. Let's look for the right solutions, not the right solutions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Another bubble. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u66	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Citizen Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Don't burn Polish forests. The government, changing the definition of energy wood in this bill, wants to burn wood in power plants. Like somebody asks, "What's going on here? If you don't know what's going on, it's about money. You do not listen to the opinion of the Members of the opposition, we have already got used to it. You don't listen to experts, you don't listen to natural and environmental organizations. Everyone - here it has already been said - we know that this is not a commodity that brings profit. This is about forest biodiversity. And my question to the government is, are you aware that you will be responsible for the scale of clippings and the devastation of the most valuable natural areas, forests and forests by introducing these laws under the dictation of the State Forests. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Poland? Don't burn Polish forests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The reason for the law is no doubt that this amendment is about flooding a hole in the State Forests, de facto later also in the Forest Fund, from which in 2019 14% resources from the sale of wood were earmarked for the maintenance of regional Directorates and Directorate-General of State Forests. This is PLN 285 million. Minister Kowalczyk issued such an order. The question arises: Can Polish entrepreneurs who are interested in this wood not acquire it today because of the high price? Now the government finds disposal, Polish energy monopolies will buy this wood for combustion, and thus will create competition, of course, in favour of the State Forests in terms of the final effect. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that what this bill is about? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u70	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The use of wood should comply with the principles of the biomass use pyramid. Burning should be the last step when wood biomass is no good for anything. For this reason, even recently, Minister Szyszko spoke of state-owned coal holdings, knowing that wood raw material - and wood in general - is the place where carbon dioxide accumulates properly, among others. That's where he's tied up. At the moment, I think... This is what Mr Krajewski was talking about - the use of wood, for example, in such a way that economic operators who have temporary difficulties in acquiring wood could be a place where wood is deposited on a loan basis. After all, I know that private producers, which produce various wood products using this wood, have periodic difficulties in acquiring it. They buy them on stock exchanges, try them in different... I think it would be a perfect time for COVID's help to stimulate this (the Bell) and gather some kind of resources. I understand that not everything is right for economic use, but co-incinerating is one of the worst methods. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u72	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The PiS must always have an enemy, even in nature: one day a rootworm, today an insect. This is the policy of the ruling party, the environmental policy. I have to say, I'm shocked because I didn't know that renewable energy sources mean cutting out, selling and burning a tree from state forests. This is deceiving society. This is not saving the environment, it is saving the catastrophic situation of the State Forests, as your colleague Banaś writes in the report. If you want to save something, start with the health and life of people and create the recipes we're waiting for, which I'm asking you to make a cure for COVID-19 from the plasma of the healers. That's what you should be doing, not saving the state forest from insects. Forests must be saved from you, not insects. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u74	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft government law on amending the Renewable Energy Act is another act which was prepared in a hurry, contrary to the principles of correct legislation and good parliamentary custom. The project was not submitted for consultation to environmental organisations and was not received by local authorities either. The consultation covered only organisations related to the State Forests and the energy industry. The most shocking is the change concerning the definition of wood raw material which could have been used energy-efficiently. If the law is passed in the current form, the energy sector will be able to burn raw materials currently used by the wood industry, which will deepen the crisis in the industry caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and will lead to higher prices, as well as reduce the competitiveness of the Polish furniture industry on foreign markets, and we must remember that we are the sixth furniture manufacturer in the world. The recognition of wood as a renewable energy source opens the door to the recognition of hard coal as RES, [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, it is enough to wait 300 million years and today's trees will turn into coal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u76	Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski, club of the Polish People's Party. There's no envoy. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u77	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Firstly, one of the most important objectives of democracy is the creation of a law based on dialogue between society and its representatives. Then why did you stop the public consultation on this project? Please explain. Secondly, a few years ago, I asked a question on the Internet: Who needs trees? After all, they take parking spaces, dirty and obscure the view of Poland rising from its knees. It was a sad satire for mass cutting of trees and forests initiated by the PiS government. Unfortunately, in a country where rulers cannot understand irony, they took this statement seriously. Today they found another ridiculous reason to burn woods this time. You're gonna do whatever it takes to get your way. Just remember that in Poland without trees, forests, water, animals, concrete, with the worst air in Europe, black from coal - in this desert you will be left alone, even without people. 'Cause who wants to live in such a sad, grey, smokey, concrete world? Think about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u78	Mr Wand Nowick, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u79	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! National forests are our national welfare, and I would like to repeat for the citizens who protested against the Sejm yesterday: do not smoke our forests. People feel that forests belong to us, they want to decide about forests, while you, treating forests like boards, and now - biomass, you don't even want to talk to people about it, you don't want to listen to their position, what they think about a policy that only treats forests, as I say, like boards, like something that can be burned and not cared about our welfare and the environment. Don't smoke our forests - that's what people said yesterday. Take that into account. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Start taking people seriously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u80	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u81	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You have a huge problem in the State Forests. If you can't do it, maybe we can give you a hint. Our entrepreneurs who process wood need this wood, but not at the prices you're offering them today. That's one thing. It may be worth thinking about how to reduce the supply of this cheap wood from abroad. This is the second topic that you might be interested in. Maybe we should reduce these horrendous salaries at a time when we have a difficult situation and, above all, develop a good plan of survival, because today we need it to survive this difficult time. Bravo! Ironically, we could say this: ladies and gentlemen, maybe we should burn some of these unused ballots from the first tour. Maybe that would be better. I'm serious about this. Ladies and gentlemen, why do we want Poles to subsidize State Forests today? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, you have recently raised the price... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u82	Thank you, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u83	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I wholeheartedly thank all the activists and activists who protested yesterday in the Seym against this barbaric act. A law that is pushed without real public consultation, as NGOs informed in a joint appeal. Once again, power lacks the courage to talk. When the whole world wonders what to do in the face of a climate disaster, the idea of burning trees in power plants is some kind of mockery, it's some kind of joke. During this time, the Minister prefers to speak on the phone. Then I won't interrupt, I'll tell the others. I'm listening, I'm listening. With the inspiration of the government, the tree becomes a commodity, and the foresters are businessmen who are supposed to make profit. I ask the government to withdraw from this project and also to ask a question. According to the project, the energy wood is also to be trees obtained from clippings on public roads and railway tracks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is the government... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u84	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club. You don't have an MP? There it is. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The extension of the definition of biomass of the highest quality wood is a biomass. Why don't you take advantage of the opportunity that the furniture industry has recorded a short-term crisis resulting from a pandemic, to reduce logging limits in a multi-annual plan for forest equipment? Reduce supply if there's plenty of dry wood. We face the effects of climate change and the great extinction of species. You funded Poland in sawdust. Now you're fund-raisering the woods into the chimney. It's not an energy mix, it's a massacre. The Ministry says it protects the woods from a fire hazard. Then cut out all the woods, there'll be nothing to burn. According to the Supreme Audit Chamber, only 13% expenditure on State Forests is devoted to the conservation and breeding of forests. What happens to the rest of the money? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u86	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, the definition of RES. These are energy sources whose use does not result in a long-term shortage of energy, as they are relatively fast renewable. Tell me what kind of expert made this interpretation, that a tree that grows for decades is the same energy source as water, wind or sun. He must be an outstanding expert. Ha, ha, ha! I would like to get to know him quickly, because I know he will soon give you an interpretation of coal, which will also meet the definition of a renewable energy source. Let's be honest, this amendment is thick threads sewn together. It's about the money. The proof is that you recently changed the VAT matrix. You've increased VAT on firewood from 8% to 23%. On this transaction, you just want to make more money, by the way, by hurting a lot of those people who unfortunately still heat their apartments today with fuel wood. By the way, clever people, you want to increase the rate (Bingle) of using RES in Poland... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ... You can't finish your sentence. [[Applause]] No culture.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u88	Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We read in the explanatory memorandum that the fact that dead trees found in forests in Poland have a pulp of tens of millions of cubic meters is allegedly in favour of the amendment. Meanwhile, it is known that Poland is a country with low resources of dead wood against the background of forests in other countries of the European Union. It is also known that dead and dying trees are habitats and feeding grounds of many valuable and endangered species protected by European Union law. We also know that there is already an infringement of European Union law against Poland due to the exemption of forest management from prohibitions applicable to protected species of animals. How does the designer intend to explain his next amendment to the law, which, by allowing the burning of dead and dying trees, strikes the protection of forest species important to the European Community? On what basis do you claim that the draft amendment is not contrary to Union law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u90	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Why does the legislator not take note of the opinions of independent experts and scientific authorities? The rootstock population is growing. It reduces forest resistance to pests. It is not caused by too many trees or density of forestation of Poland. The reason is that the weather is disappearing. It's too little rain. I suggest that you take care of raising the status of groundwater in the forests, which is the main cause of drying and dying trees in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u92	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is the wrong solution, which is why in the meantime I applied for rejection in the second reading of this project on behalf of the Coalition Poland club. But I have questions: How much will the adoption of this solution affect the rise in electricity prices? If the wood is so expensive right now that no one wants to buy it, then if we put it in the oven and burn it, it'll probably be the same value at this price. Is today, at falling prices of energy from the sun, from the wind, because its production is already very cheap, this is a rational solution? In turn, I have a question: How much more energy from co-combustion in renewable energy will increase after this law has been introduced? How much longer is this going to increase? But above all, it is important how this will affect the price of electricity. Thank you very much. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a good question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u94	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u95	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! No need to repeat from this tribune: do not smoke our Polish forests. Many times, every time, all Members should make this clear. Minister! In the explanatory memorandum, you write about the huge losses Polish forests will suffer. Today it is almost 3 million m behind
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u96	Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why would you think of cutting trees and burning wood as renewable energy? What do renewable energy sources have in common with environmental damage? The RES was about to protect this environment. The changes to the rules justify an epidemic. That's a great excuse for anything. The explanatory memorandum estimates the quantities of wood that are behind. But what about the value of this wood? How much wood are we gonna smoke? In the face of a climate disaster, every tree is priceless. Do we have a guarantee that only accumulated wood will be burned? Isn't that gonna cause another clipping? How much money will it take to get that wood back to make these trees grow again? Because we know how long the forest grows, the forest grows 100 years. It's been a long time for a renewable energy source. Don't burn our Polish forests. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u98	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I come from Obornik Wielkopolski, a village located on the edge of the Note Forest. The number of areas covered in the last few years by the sand, I must say, scares not only me, but also all those who like the forest, who like to enjoy the natural gifts offered by this forest. I wanted to take this opportunity today to ask the Minister: What are the figures on the quantities of wood harvested for different purposes recently, between 2015 and 2019? It is both less valuable and full-value wood. Organizations tracking this data are hitting the alarm. You're making yourself into a State Forest bank. This isn't right. We're following you today so you don't go down that road. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u100	Mr Tomasz Nowak, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! You're completely lost. Renewable energy sources were supposed to be those that will contribute to the change in the energy face of Poland, but unfortunately, you have not achieved the climate target for so many years, you do not lead to the share of renewable energy sources being... In 2020 it will not be 15% In 2030, there will probably not be those 27.30%. You want to save yourselves to avoid penalties from the European Union by organising pseudo-renewable energy sources in the form of co-incineration. And this co-incineration in auctions will reach a horror scale of 36% by 2020, and the price for 1 MWh from co-incineration will be PLN 470, in relation to e.g. to the RES-price of wind energy, which often does not reach even 200 PLN. As a result, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Renaissance co-burning biomass with coal? Thank you. [[Applause]] The price of energy will rise.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u102	Mrs Anita Sowińska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Poland has no luck with environmental ministers. We had a lex Szysko, now we have a lex Woś. I remind you that you are the Minister of Environmental Protection, not the destruction of the environment. I also remind you that the woods are our property, not your property or the property of the State Forests. Lesity in Poland is only 30%. In the European Union, average forestism is 38%. We are at the gray end, we are at the 19th place in the European Union. I ask you the question: What did you, as Minister of Environment, do and intend to do to make forestry in Poland at 38%, which is the average in the European Union? I want you to get on with the job you've been called to. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u104	Member Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I must say that the government is coming out of increasingly absurd projects concerning the State Forests. First of all, you presented a draft legislation to the Committee on Public Finance, which relieved the State Forests of total liability for the recovery of debts in connection with COVID-19. This was intended to ensure the flow of logging and to prevent wood deposits in the woods. I guess it didn't work. Isn't that right, Minister? It didn't work, did it? We said at the committee meeting that it wouldn't work, that we had to support companies. Now you're presenting a project that's de facto going to move the spoil to combustion. Minister, that's not gonna work either. Instead of supporting Polish companies, furniture companies, let them buy raw materials on the right, I would say, market conditions, you try to figure out how to burn this tree. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, what happened to the first idea, the release of responsibility, just didn't work out? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u106	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u107	High Izbo! Minister! It's a shame you're on the phone because I have a question. I do not know if you have read the 2030 Green Policy adopted by the Ministry of Environment last year. I read it. We have, for example, there. such a provision that the role of environmental policy is to ensure the environmental safety of the country. We learn from it that one of the priorities of the "green policy of the country 2030" will be the protection of the natural heritage of Poland, among others. by taking action to improve biodiversity. Moreover, we also learn that eliminating the causes of loss of biodiversity resulting from social and economic activities requires a coherent policy and a more effective mainstreaming of biodiversity across the whole sphere of state activity. So I have a question for the Minister. How are mass cuttings of wood for fuel to achieve the goals described in the country's environmental policy 2030 and, in particular, how do they make it clear that Poland considers it necessary to make better use of biosystems as natural carbon sinks? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u108	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u109	Minister! Minister! You've come to the conclusion that an unclaimed surplus of already harvested wood will have to be burned. It's about 2, maybe 3 million m3
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u110	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! This law is very harmful to Polish forests, nature and climate. The only real purpose of this law is to obtain money as soon as possible. This situation is even more shocking when you read the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, which exposes the mismanagement of the State Forests. It turns out that only 13% their expenditure The State Forests are devoted to the conservation and breeding of forests and the maintenance of forest resources and crops, i.e. the basic objectives of their functioning. We cannot allow the tradition of looking only at short-term monetary profits to continue harmful practices in forests. The solution to the ecological disaster that we face is completely opposite actions, namely the preservation of biodiversity and the most natural forests. Three years ago, you allowed the destruction of the Białowieża Forest under the pretext of fighting the barker. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we really have to go this way again and destroy our common good? Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u112	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The response to the climate crisis and the loss of biodiversity must not be that which this crisis will further deepen by burning and releasing carbon dioxide. You want to allow sanitary cuts to burn as biomass of trees coming from Polish forests, among others. at power plants. You're not talking about any nature conservation, you're talking about pure profit. In 2016, you introduced a fee for the sale of wood and a regular payment of State Forests with money. You're all about the money. Why has such an important project not been subject to reliable public consultation and expert advice? Don't burn Polish forests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u114	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The mode in which the government tries to push this bill must raise doubts. The bill shouldn't be prepared on the knee. The changes should be consulted with NGOs, local governments and the furniture industry. I would like to ask the Minister if there are any European rules on this matter. How are prices set for furniture industry in Poland today? The solutions presented in the Act are harmful to both nature and the furniture industry. This bill is a help for a monopolist, not for Polish woodworking plants. I would also like to ask what this will have to do with the price of electricity. The changes presented must not lead to any abuse, and so maybe. Minister! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't smoke Polish forests, save the Polish furniture industry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u116	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland has undertaken to produce 15% by 2020 energy from renewable sources. Ladies and gentlemen, for the last four years, since you've been shut down, you've destroyed the generation of renewable energy from wind power plants, and I'm talking about it at every opportunity. You haven't done anything in six years of your government to increase the production of renewable energy. Now in fear, because these 15% It must be achieved by the end of 2020, you want to cost our forests... you want to cut down these woods to make it possible to burn this wood in power plants just to increase... I have a question for the Minister. Minister, if you increase the amount of renewable energy at a cost [[♪ The bell ♪]] burning our forests? It's barbaric, especially since we have the worst air in Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u118	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Szejna, the left-wing club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u119	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no time to regret roses when forests are burning - Juliusz Słowacki, Lilla Veneda. The draft amendment to the Renewable Energy Act is a dramatic idea, contrary to the objectives of the European Union - achieving climate neutrality by 2050. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki must adopt it the day after tomorrow if he does not want to lose EUR 8 billion for Poland from the Fair Transformation Fund. Therefore, I ask and encourage: Why not unlock the construction of wind farms with technological progress in their productivity? Strengthen support for the furniture industry, which is also useful in terms of carbon absorption and storage. Why do you not create favourable conditions for investments in biogas plants, and thus in distributed energy? Support the idea of photovoltaics in every household. And the question at the end, Minister, is it clear who's gonna make the next cut in energy wood burning, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Just like he made on ventilators and masks? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u120	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Michael Hontoby in the room. I therefore conclude that the list of Members voted in has been exhausted. Now please take the floor of Mr Michał Woś on behalf of the Minister of the Environment. That's mine. Excuse me, Mr. Environment Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u121	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I will start by thanking all the activists who wanted to gather at the Sejm yesterday, who have found time to devote their time, their heart to nature conservation. Indeed, this is very valuable. Unfortunately, the scale of lies and manipulation is so gigantic, that indeed also to those who have the good of Polish nature in their hearts, these lies and manipulations have been shared, as has, unfortunately, by the vast majority of Members and Members of the opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, don't lie, please don't lie, keep your integrity, keep your senses. We have repeatedly explained to you that not one tree because of this law will be cut above what is planned. Not a single tree will be burned in Polish power plants in connection with any clippings about which you speak so much. You lie and lie and manipulate society. What did we hear in this debate, I'm sorry, about the plasma of the healers? I know a little bit about the plasma of the healers, because I regularly give them away. Ladies and gentlemen! You asked for a definition of where the experts are who define them as such. These definitions are directly in the European Union Directive. The directive simply contains definitions related to energy wood. Ladies and gentlemen, the State Forests, our common good, here we agree, the welfare of the whole society, plant 500 million trees per year in Poland, every minute 1 000. trees. The scale of the forestation of Poland grows from year to year. There are more and more trees and we make sure that there are more and more trees so that we can enjoy our eye's development of Polish nature. Ladies and gentlemen, one basic thing. Yes, it is true that in connection with COVID 2 million m3 But, ladies and gentlemen, you can say, whose business is this gigantic interest, with this scale of lying and manipulation? Well, ladies and gentlemen, do you know that Polish power plants import 2.5 million tons of biomass from abroad? Do you know that 2.5 million tons of biomass are burned in Polish power plants? One energy company PGE allocates over PLN 100 million for this. Where is it imported from? From the Czech Republic, from Austria, from the East. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the answer to why suddenly such great interest and such a scale of manipulation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that not a single tree above what is in the plans to organize the forest will be cut off. You get excited, you write interventions in the case, for example. Three-city Landscape Park. Who signed the forest plan for the Tri-City Landscape Park? Government of the Civic Platform and PSL. Today, one of the Members from this speaker PSL screams we're cutting out the Notebook. Do you know who signed the plan to organize the forest for the Note Forest? The government of the Platform and PSL, just as Deputy Minister of PSL, was responsible for this, in 2013, and is implementing a plan to organize the forest. The Renewable Energy Act refers to the definition of energy wood. I will repeat once again that not one tree in connection with this law will be cut out, because the basis for any logging in Poland is the plans to plant the forest. It's a pity the scale of manipulation that the scale of lies associated with it was so gigantic. On the other hand, I would like to inform you from the opposition that it is worth getting involved in defending forests perhaps in other directions. The recently responsible institutions in the Federal Republic of Germany stated that, due to pests and the drought that prevails in Germany, 70 million m3 of wood will be harvested, not as in Poland. Only because of the pests and only because of the drought that prevails there. The State Forests are taking a number of steps to strengthen the state of the forest in order to increase retention. A number of programs are being implemented to rebuild the stand in Poland from monoculture - yes, they are, it is the fault of decades of conducting such a policy - to change monocultures to more durable trees. In this context, I will tell you once again, in whose interest are all these screams, these lies and these manipulations that have been here, ladies and gentlemen. In whose interest? [[Applause]] 2.5 million t biomass Polish power plants import from Germans, Austrians, Czechs and the East. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u122	Thank you very much to the Minister of the Environment for his statement. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956 (print No 452). Since Minister Andrzej Dera is not here yet, I propose a few minutes' break. We will begin immediately when the Minister arrives. We have information that the Minister will be here in literally one minute, two minutes. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 minutes 13 hours 13 min 16]] I'm reopening the session. As you can see, the Minister has arrived. Maybe we should let him take a breather. If he's ready, we'll begin our deliberations. I ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Dera, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u123	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, I have the honour to present a draft law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. The Sybirak Day is celebrated every year on September 17th. This particular date resembles the aggression of the Soviet Union on Poland, which initiated cruel repression against the citizens of the Republic of Poland, who found themselves... [[Game in the O.R.]] Excuse me. I ask you to move the discussion outside the Parliamentary Chamber to allow the Minister to speak. Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: ...under Soviet occupation. One of the basic instruments of the occupation policy of the Soviet authorities was the mass export of Poles to the Soviet Union, especially to Siberia. This policy had two basic objectives: the extermination of Polish political, intellectual and economic elites and ethnic cleansing. Deportations started a few hundred thousand Polish citizens. The exports of civilians, entire Polish families are a gehenna of generations who lost their loved ones on their way to inhuman soil. The Męczeń route of deportees started when the NKVD entered their homes when several minutes were given to pack. Then it took several dozen days to transport to Siberia, in cattle cars, with frost reaching 50°C. The conditions of transport were terrifying. People died of cold, hunger, exhaustion. Upon reaching the place of the exiles, slave labor, poverty, sickness, and hunger were waiting. The consequences of the exiles are still felt today, even if still living victims of Soviet persecution. Until now, however, the question of compensation for Poles staying in the years 1939 to 1956 on exile in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics or deported there has not been finally resolved. To date, the compensation granted by the Polish State for the persecution suffered by the invaders did not cover all Polish exiles. The aim of the bill submitted by the President is to eliminate the inequalities so far and to enable the right claims of Polish citizens sent or deported to the Soviet Union to be met in 1939 and who so far have not been compensated for their suffering. This initiative is based on the solutions provided for in the draft law of the dead. President Lech Kaczyński of 2009, a legislative initiative in the Sejm in 2013 by a group of Members of Law and Justice, as well as a presidential bill which was introduced in the previous term of office, in 2018. The proposed law provides for a financial benefit to be granted in proportion to the duration of the stay at exile or deportation in the Soviet Union. The draft law lays down the rules for granting a monetary benefit, including the circle of persons entitled to receive it, the amount of the benefit and the modalities for granting it. The provision of money will be granted to persons who had Polish citizenship at the time of deportation or deportation and have Polish citizenship on the date of submission of the application for the money benefit. The initiative provides for a single grant of 200 PLN for each full month of the period subject to repression, but not less than 2400 PLN. This benefit will be granted at the request of the person concerned submitted to the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The granting, fixing of the amount and any refusal to grant the benefit shall be carried out by administrative decision of the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The cash benefit will be paid by the Office for Combatants and Persons Repressed within one month of the date of the decision to grant it. The benefit will also be financed, together with the costs of handling it, from the part of the budget of the State to which the minister responsible for social security is responsible. These payments will be free of enforcement and will not be included in the income entitlement to any benefits and allowances granted under separate provisions. There is a 30-day vacathio legis here. And taking into account the estimated data we have from the veterans' office, the average level of payment of this cash benefit would be around. 13 200 PLN. The cost of this law would not exceed PLN 300 million. It should be stressed that this project responds to numerous demands received by the President from the Sibirian community, and solutions were consulted both with this environment and with the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. And I have two requests for you. The first - that we unanimously grant this benefit as a parliament, because these people simply deserve it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a second request - to quickly pass this law, because they are alive... I'm almost done, Marshal. These people who are still alive today are mostly 80+. These are the children, the people who were born there, or when they were children, they were exported to Siberia because they were the only ones who were able to live to the age of 20. The 21st century The vast majority of those who have been deported are simply dead. There are only children left, which I think, I mean. I don't think so, but they certainly had the hardest childhood of all who lived in our country. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. I think the High House will agree to the Minister's request. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Urszula Ruseck, Law and Justice will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u125	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present to you a position towards the presidential draft law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, print No 452. The bill presented by President Andrzej Duda is a necessary remedy for the citizens of Poland who were sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. The mass export of Poles to Russia, mainly to Siberia and Kazakhstan, was the basic instrument of the occupation policy of the Soviet authorities, whose aim was to exterminate Polish political, intellectual elites and ethnic cleansings. As the Minister said, the proposed project is based on a project of 12 February 2009 addressed to the High House by the sleeper. Professor Lech Kaczyński. Russia - the legal successor of the Soviet Union - never admitted, was not tried and did not pay compensation for extermination of hundreds of thousands of Poles. This has persisted for years, despite the fact that the International Military Court in Nuremberg found forced resettlement to be a crime. Poland wants to meet commitments that Russia has not fulfilled. Until now, the question of compensation for Poles has not been resolved. To date, compensation has not covered all Polish exiles, therefore the primary objective of the presidential bill is to eliminate the existing inequalities and to satisfy the legitimate claims of Polish citizens who have suffered enormous suffering. The satisfaction referred to in the draft law will consist of a single payment of money, and its amount will correspond to the period of being sent or deported to the Soviet Union. The benefit will be awarded in the amount of PLN 200 for each month subject to repression in the years 1939-1956, but the amount paid will not be less than PLN 2400 according to the draft law. According to the data of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, the number of persons who could obtain the benefit is around 22 000. On the other hand, the average time spent in deportation or camp was 66 months. Taking into account the amount of the benefit for each month subject to the repression referred to in the draft law, the average amount of the benefit for one person would be at the level of PLN 13 200. Given that the number of people who would benefit from the law is around 22 thousand, the burden on the state budget due to the introduction of the law will not exceed 300 million PLN. The Presidential bill complementing the laws in force in Poland concerning sibiracs is important for social reasons, but above all for dignity reasons. Many Sibirians who survived this hell are now living in very poor conditions. These are the elderly, most often severely ill. The Presidential bill aims at symbolic recognition of the harms and pains sent and deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. The adoption of the proposed solution will highlight the merit of the Sibiraks, will be financial support, but also an attempt to compensate those sent to Sibir for the lost years of their lives. We thank the President for this very much awaited project by the Sibirak community to support the elderly who have experienced so much suffering in their lives. The Law and Justice Club therefore welcomes President Andrzej Duda's draft law. I would like to say that the committee meeting to be held today has been postponed to Tuesday because the second reading will take place on Wednesday. Next week before the meeting, i.e. On Tuesday, this bill will be processed in committee. I am optimistic that it will be adopted unanimously. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u126	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Frydrych, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u127	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition is pleased to present the position of the club on the presidential draft law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956, print No 452. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill aims to eliminate the inequalities so far and to enable the right claims of Polish citizens sent or deported to the USSR to be met in 1939 and 1956, who so far have not been compensated for their suffering. The proposed provisions lay down the rules for granting compensation, the circle of persons entitled to receive compensation and the amount and method of granting the benefit. The bill specifies that this will be a one-off cash benefit. Its amount will be calculated on the basis of proportionality to the period of exile or deportation in the Soviet Union. For every full month of the period under repression, the amount of PLN 200 will be due, but not less than PLN 2400. The project assumes that compensation will be granted at the request of the person concerned to the Head of the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. The proposal should include a statement of failure to obtain compensation or compensation pursuant to the 1991 Act on recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against persons being repressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. The justification for the project also indicated that the average time spent in deportation or camp in the Soviet Union in the case of sibiracs residing in Poland was 66 months, and therefore the average amount of this cash benefit for one person may be PLN 13 200. In the justification of the project we read that so far the compensation granted by the Polish State for the persecution suffered by the invaders did not cover all the exiles. We also read that the project is a response to the demands of the sibirak community, in which it was signalled that they live their days often under difficult conditions. So why wait so long for this bill to be passed? It should be praised as soon as possible because the sibirates are waiting for it. I would like to remind you that a draft law was submitted on 13 November 2018 aimed at paying compensation for sending or deporting to the Soviet Union. On 6 December 2018, the first reading in the Sejm was directed to further work in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. What do you think happened? He was stuck, frozen, and in 2018 there was approx. 24 600 people. After 1.5 years of PiS omissions, it is estimated that approx. 22,000 people, or 2600, did not get this bill, did not get paid for it. Your 1.5-year omissions to the Sibirians cost 34 320 thousand. Evil loss. As indicated in the justification for the project, the entry into force of the Act provides for a positive social effect in the form of a long-awaited satisfaction of social justice. How long will those sent and deported to the Soviet Union be waiting? The same bill the president brought in just before the first election round. Is it true that this was only an election offer? Is it true that the bill will be frozen again in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs? In 2009 there was the first law. Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to pay compensation to the sibiraks, let's go straight to second reading without directing the bill to the Social Policy and Family Committee. I make such a request on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. I would like to stress that the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u128	Thank you very much, Member. Please take the floor of Mr Jack Czerniak, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u129	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left on the law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956 by the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda. Ladies and gentlemen! The idea of making amends in this form to those who were wrongly sent into the Soviet Union for their professional, social or political activities is, as a matter of principle, a valid concept. Many of these people, driven thousands of kilometers from their homes, into areas completely cut off from civilization, were killed or severely injured as a result of incredibly hard work. The draft law on the provision of money to deportees during these years would, in its assumption, make up for this injustice to some extent, of course. Theoretically, this proposal could be unreservedly supported, since it is a very glorious project, but there are some inconsistencies in it, and actually there are comments, issues that had to be explained and resolved before voting in favour of it. First of all, we already have the following laws in this matter, in the Polish system there are three laws: the law of 23 February 1991 on the recognition as invalid of judgments handed down against people being oppressed for the purpose of the independent existence of the Polish State. This law contains Article. 8, which speaks of compensation and compensation. We also have a law of 31 May 1996 on the provision of money to persons deported to forced labour and to be imprisoned in camps by the Third Reich and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. Here in the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 there is talk of benefits of the amount determined as a result of an increase in the rate of pension valorisation. And we have a law of 24 January 1991 on combatants and certain victims of war and post-war repression. On the basis of these provisions, monthly cash benefits are paid: a combatant allowance, a flat-rate energy allowance, a compensatory allowance, to persons who, for political, religious and national reasons, were in prisons and labour camps or on forced missions in the Soviet Union. Another issue is the estimated number of people. According to the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons, this figure is estimated at 22 000. Why, in fact, is the question - these persons did not benefit from these three previously mentioned laws, although in the explanatory memorandum it is written, in individual laws, what compensation or compensation is for this? Is this amount... On the basis of which the amount of PLN 200 was calculated for the full month and from where the minimum, which is... On average 66 months this time of delivery or deportation was 13 200, while the minimum was 2400. Therefore, I have a comment and a question: If a person is unable to document his/her stay and deportation, according to the Veterans' Act, this period is classified by the manager as a full month. So how does that person get... Will he receive a minimum of 2400, or will the Veterans' Office require any additional documents? These documents of residence could simply have been lost, destroyed, etc. Speaking of the discussion on redress, another important and very important issue, there is also the question we discussed in the 7th term of office concerning compensation for the victims of the war of 1939 and 1945. In this respect, interpellations and various proposals were submitted in the seventh term of the Polish Sejm. I have a question for the Minister as to whether the President is also considering submitting a project in this area, it is about making amends for minors victims of war, as I said, 1939 and 1945. I also agree to the appeal to adopt this law as soon as possible. Of course, this is not addressed to the Minister, because it does not affect the legislative process, but 5 or 4 years of the 8th term and it was not possible to adopt this law, it is small, it can be said, a misunderstanding, I am directing it to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. In conclusion, the Left Club will support further work on the resolution of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u130	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented by Mieczysław Kasprzak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I think the bill is very important and we owe it to these people to pass it as soon as possible. Too bad she couldn't make it through all those years. But I wouldn't be looking for a culprit right now, because this is another project, I think it's well prepared. If he's been lying in your freezer for so many years, Minister, because it was your freezer, I think it's well prepared and I support the motion to go to second reading because you guarantee it's a good project. So we're moving on to second reading, Mr. Marshal, and we're taking care of the subject at this meeting. The Polish People's Party was once the applicant and creator of a presidential decoration project called the Cross of Sibir's Messengers. Marek Sawicki sitting here - we were just talking - he was an applicant, he was presenting this project, we adopted it, and all the sibiracs got this award. Many times I attended various ceremonies at which this award was given. On the other hand, being sent to inhuman soil was barbaric. If you listen to the memories of those who... The first export took place from the eastern areas, from which I come - counties: Sanocki, Przemyski, jarosławski, lubaczowski. That's what affected these people on February 10, 1940. In the middle of the night, they were broken up, had a dozen minutes to take something with them, some bag, and they got into a cattle car. A few dozen days they drove in these cattle cars. Some of them didn't make it to their destination, and some of them died under hard work. It was the drama of these people. Some later returned with the Anders army or with the Polish Army army, the First Army of the Polish Army. They were mostly the people who were transported there. So it's about time. Every time I meet, I have questions I have to ask: When do we get any compensation? And when will the Sejm approve? There is a vast majority in the Sejm at the moment, the declaration is made once again, so I repeat the conclusion that we should not be disappointed, because these first readings have already been here several and they have not come to fruition. So let's do it right now, when it's the will, there's energy, Minister, at this session of the Sejm. So that at the forthcoming celebrations we can all communicate unanimously and proudly that we did what these people deserved. Because I'm gonna tell you that there are fewer people at each meeting. It will come to the conclusion that we will actually pass the bill, and it will not give it to anyone and give it to them. Then a proposal may be made to go back to backward years and give them as inheritance to posterity from the moment we found these people oppressed in Poland. If we're gonna pass a law that's dead because it's not gonna apply to whom, then we're probably gonna have to do that. Once again on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 we declare our full support for this law and its immediate adoption at this meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u132	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Robert Winnicki, who will present the position of the Circle of the Posel Confederation, together with Mr Grzegorz Braun - in the second place.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! More than 1 million Poles exported to Inhuman soil in the 1940s and unfortunately several tens of thousands of those who are looking forward to this day. Let us have some personal reflection, because unfortunately this story, the history of Sibir, the history of Poles who had to survive there - and not all of them have managed to survive - is a history poorly known in Poland, it is a story very poorly told, actually also in the Polish culture told only and only in the context of Katynia, in a very exposed way. For me, it's a personal story, because I grew up in Sibirian history. The whole family of Grandpa Leon - from Lviv Voivodeship. With him, as then a 13-year-old, she was transported to the Krasnojarskie Land on Inhuman soil. I know stories about years of hunger, when every day the greatest dream of children and teenagers, of course, adults, was to be able to eat bread to the full. Under cold and exhausting conditions, it was a dream to eat up. The whole family of Grandma Bronisławy from the Vilnius Voivodeship - also exported behind Ural. Izidor's great-grandfather paid with his life, as did his grandfather's oldest brother. These stories deserve to be told to remind them. Thank you for the initiative. But it must also be said that this initiative also affects very few victims of the Upper Silesian tragedy, those Silesians who were repressed by communist power after World War II, including 15,000. miners sent to the Donetsk region to work in inhumane conditions. It is also very important that the Polish state today reminds of the tragedy of Upper Silesia and apologizes symbolically, trying to apologize symbolically to the Silesians, Poles for the harm that the communists did to them after World War II. This is very important, very important. Minister! The proposal from the Confederation and the amendment that I am proposing at this point: the idea is that sibiraks who have already received very little compensation, for example in the 1990s, should not be excluded from this law, so that at this point they do not differentiate sibiraks, people sent to the Soviet Union into different categories, different groups. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u134	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Grzegorz Braun to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u135	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, a moment of relief, a matter of far-reaching non-controversial nature here in the High House, although a bit of it, but there will, I hope, not be a natural dispute. Minister! Mr. President! We're happy for you. Better late than never. Even at the last minute, at the end of the election campaign, we accept with the benefit of inventory, because it is about time. Here different estimates are given, but this no longer applies to survivors with families, these are no longer hundreds of thousands, these are tens of thousands of survivors from Sibir, saved from the Polish Holocaust. I don't know if they're still there or if they're gonna come forward to witness to the survivors of white Auschwitz from Kolyma. It would be good for the nomenclature to be sober. It's about not inheriting, and that's a fact, after a PRL like this. Although half-righteous in this reality, yet a recent historical one. This is a certain discussion, such as, right, not a crime on the Coast, just the events of 1970. Sybirates... Well, sybirates sounds like an adventurous, adventurous, exotic thing to a young generation. These are the survivors of the Polish Holocaust. These people were there according to the national census and were destined if not for hasty extermination - although there were such cases, the truth, like Soviet action AB, that is Katyn's crime (The Bell) - it is definitely to eliminate, eliminate from public life, even from Polish life. Let's appeal to them. Minister! So I hope this is a shot at the tape trying to do justice to historical justice, but let's not be putting some dot over and, let's not be the end of it, the finale. Don't keep it down over this Polish coffin of Sibir, just louder, let's talk more about it. Let it finally enter the mainstream of Polish consciousness and historical self-awareness. Shine, O Lord, over the souls of those who did not return from there, and those who, after years of saving their lives, carried the stigmatism here, were, by the way, afraid to speak of their Gehenna. So we should make up for it, too. Thank you for your attention and for your kindness, Marshal, when it comes to delaying time. I bow down, with God. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u136	Thank you very much, sir. Thirteen Members joined the questions. Please, as the first Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Gentlemen of Ministers! This benefit from the Polish State is fully due to these people. There is no need to argue today, whether it is late or too late, because any government, every president, could have taken such an initiative earlier. This was the case under the SLD-PSL regime when a project was adopted in 1996 on persons deported to forced labour in the former Soviet Union and the Third Reich, as well as other arrangements that were also mentioned in the speeches of the Members and of the Minister. I would like to ask the representative of the government whether the Polish government has ever asked the successor of the Soviet Union, or the Russian state, to claim compensation for Polish citizens for their forced labor (the bell), for their deportations to the former Soviet Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u138	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Mark Rutka, the Left Club, to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u139	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In January 2009, President Lech Kaczyński sent to the Sejm a draft act on the witnessing of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to those who were repressed in 1939 and 1956. In this project the benefit was due in the amount of PLN 400 for each month of the duration of repression, in total - no more than 30 thousand. zł. However, in the draft of President Andrzej Duda, the amount of the benefit for each month is PLN 200. The average amount of the monetary benefit per person was estimated at PLN 13 200. 11 years ago President Lech Kaczyński wanted to allocate PLN 966 million to the exiles, and 11 years later President Andrzej Duda - only 290 million. My question is: The result is a double reduction in the monthly amount available to the exiles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in relation to Lech Kaczyński's project? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u140	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u141	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have two questions, because the third one, about this amount, i.e. The significant difference between President Kaczyński's proposal and President Duda's proposal for them to the detriment of the oppressed, he just asked a colleague, so I will focus on two issues. Firstly, this benefit is conditional on making a certain statement and documents, but there is no formula in the provisions proposed by the President's Registry for helping those who are repressed in making such statements. Therefore, the question is: Was it analysed? Why isn't there such a formula for helping those who are being repressed? These are often elderly people who are ill, so perhaps such help will be needed. And the second thing is about a statement being made. How and will it be verified at all? because, of course, there could be a whole lot of abuse. They will strike the oppressed, de facto limiting perhaps or increasing the pool of funds. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is there therefore provision for, and if so, what mechanisms to protect and verify in this case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u142	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Paul Krutul, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a shame it's so late. After all, President Lech Kaczyński has already introduced such a project. It is right to take the initiative to reward or to make amends to all those who, as a result of their aggression against Poland, were repressed and sent to the depths of the Soviet Union. As foreseen by the legislator, there may be up to 22 000 additional benefits. persons. The problem is how to grant additional benefits. They are to be awarded at the request of the repatriates after fulfilling a kind of three stages consisting of a number of complex applications and certificates and completing extensive documentation. Can't the legislator provide this particularly well deserved and very narrow group of social financial comfort in the form of additional benefits in a simpler formula, reducing formal requirements and the amount of unnecessary documentation, which for many older people will be a big barrier, an unpassable barrier? Ladies and gentlemen, let's finally pass this bill, preferably at this session of the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u144	Thank you very much. Please ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! A few technical cases like this. Do you have lists - I know that Sibirak associations have such lists - of people who are eligible who have suffered from exports to Sibir? This is the first case. I think that would make it easier to get there. The point is not to wait for conclusions, but to inform these people that it is possible. Are financial resources guaranteed at this point in time to make a withdrawal? If so, how long, Minister, would you have done it? Because it's an emergency. Devaluation takes place in many ways. The State also tells us how the nominal value of this benefit falls. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The point is not to put it off in time and continue to devalue it, but to make a withdrawal in the coming months, ultimately covering all those who are waiting for this kind of reparation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u146	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, The Law and Justice politicians have already promised to help the Sibirians at least twice. The first project, submitted by President Lech Kaczyński, came from 2009, the second one from 2013. Both provided for the payment of PLN 400 for each month at the exile. However, the laws were lost by the votes of MPs of the PO-PSL governing coalition. And let me tell you that I am personally pleased that after all these years there has been concern for sibiraks among the parliamentarians of the Platform and PSL. Now, after 5 years of office, Andrzej Duda fulfills his promise, although in a more modest version. And the question remains: Why so much time Did it last? You rule 5 years, this project does not require much investment, and it can be a great relief, great support for thousands of Sibirians, who have already died more than 10,000 since the first promise. When it comes to these solutions presented today, it really matters every day.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u148	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Wanda Nowick, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u149	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Cash benefits to those repressed by deportation to the Soviet Union belong to as few people as possible. We owe it to these people. Therefore, it is worth asking ourselves why we are only doing this now, since every day those who are being repressed, the sibiratics leave us. This case could have been handled a long time ago. Did we really have to wait, Minister, for the presidential election, so that President Duda could prove that he did something for the sibiraks? Couldn't it have been done before? Two terms Kwasniewski. Two terms Kwasniewski. I have a specific question. Namely, in this case there were three laws, including two laws of 1991 and one of 1996. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why in the name of some, I would say, legislative economics could not be amended by any of these laws? Why do we need another bill that only makes an unnecessary mess of our legal system? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u150	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Jacek Czerniak, Lewis. The next Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the club, I said we were in favour of this bill. It is really an attempt to make amends, but I stress the word: trial. I have a specific question. The Minister or the President has stated that 1 month will cost 200 PLN. I don't think there's any money here that can compensate or make up for this suffering, this great suffering. Perhaps, Minister, this is not enough, because today the nominal value of PLN 200 for this month is completely different than the previously mentioned proposal of PLN 400. And why, for example. the minimum amount is PLN 2400? Couldn't it be bigger? I don't think it's going to be a big burden for the Polish state's budget if, possibly, these amounts are increased by the state as part of the self-correction. Once again, I stress that no money is able to make amends for this suffering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] The SLD and the gold didn't work. SLD, Kwasniewski two terms.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u152	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Małgorzata Chmiel a question. I'm also asking you not to discuss from the Parliamentary benches with the questioners.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Sibiracs, or Poles who were transported to Sibir from 1939 to 1956, are really brave and experienced people and they deserve all the help they need. I wanted to ask the government why since 2018 the project has been stuck in the Sejm, it has not been prosecuted - the government, because it is the decision of the government majority, the countries of PiS. During that time 2,600 people left. We didn't help that anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! This law should be passed as soon as possible, because these Poles deserved this help, these Poles, like no other, need this help and they deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]] Eight years.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u154	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank President Andrzej Duda very warmly for the initiative to make amends to those sent into the Soviet Union, to those deported. Today, of course, you say that late, why so late, but if we had passed this bill a week ago, you'd probably be screaming that it's some kind of election sausage and that it's empty promises. This Decision shall enter Today we are post-election and I would like to thank the President once again that this bill is being passed. Those who have been deported, whom we have never fully counted, deserve such a benefit. For this reason, a further clarification question, Minister: How many people are going to receive this benefit today (the bell)? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u156	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think it's a matter of redress, because that's what it's called, the people who crossed Siberia, shouldn't be the subject of a dispute. [[Applause]] Thank you for the initiative. Would she be a week early, or is she now, I think... I have experience because I was the rapporteur for the bill that established the Cross of Sibir Messengers 17 years ago. Mr Marek Sawicki was then an applicant on behalf of the club of the Polish People's Party to award this award, because the sibiracs then established themselves a cross of exiles. They admitted it to each other as part of their organization. At that time there was resistance from the President's Office because of the costs to establish this distinction. And then (the bell) this example, the fact that the Sibirian environment itself established such a cross, granted internally, was a predicative argument on my part. Today I would like to say this: there is no money that can make up for it, but it is a moral reparation. I think we should all have this thought here. I think there are very few things that we can do in this House over and over, which is why I think that even though late, these people deserve it. Although it's not a closed directory... Of course. ...because there are Poles who were deported to Kazakhstan from so-called. Carrots. They also still feel Poles, and Poland was preserved, even though Poland was not there. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u158	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Paweł Szramka, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After such beautiful words from my previous speaker, I think it's hard to add more. We're dealing with a very good project. I think that when we're all in this room, we think it's a project we need, and I think we also think it should come into force as soon as possible. Therefore, it may be worthwhile to take advantage of the proposal that has already been made here and which has been raised by others to go straight to the second reading without referring the project to the committee. Please think about it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u160	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Urszula Ruseck, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, please give the President a great thank you for this bill. Thank you very much that all clubs unanimously accepted this draft law, but it is impossible not to address the statements of the opposition, because it is always generous when it does not rule. All I'm gonna say is, my favorite Aunt Zosieńka didn't see it coming. Her son Poldek, who came back, would probably have lived to see if the Platform and PSL had adopted the Presidential Act, the Law of President Lech Kaczyński. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u162	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm an envoy from Bydgoszcz. In my city every year, a branch of the Sibirak Union gathers under the monument of the Sibir Messengers to give honor and memory to those who, on the anniversary of the first mass deportation, have failed to survive and return to their homeland. The Siberians gather and say to the oppressors: We forgive, but we do not forget. Today we are to offer symbolic help. Let's do everything we can to get this help out of here as soon as possible. Therefore, my call primarily for the parliamentary majority to move on to second reading, but at the same time also a proposal to increase this assistance and simplify the formulation of proposals. I ask very kindly, first and foremost, the parliamentary majority, that our words be not just [[♪ The bell ♪]] in words to turn them into actions today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u164	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr Duda is better off talking to Russian pranksters than fulfilling commitments and promises. You're an insolent... Minister! Why have the sibiracs been waiting since 2018? Why haven't you proposed for two years to work on this project, a project concerning people sent or deported to the Soviet Union, who should receive the benefits due from the Polish State? 2009 I have the impression that the election is over and that President Duda is withdrawing from all his electoral obligations. He doesn't retreat from any of them. The Health Committee cancels the meeting on the Medical Fund. Internship pensions are too expensive for the government. Polish tourist voucher will be, but not for seniors. Why do you forget about your commitments and your promises when the campaign is over? [[Applause]] Lie! Why didn't you approve this in 2009?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa asks a question. [[Game in the O.R.]] Don't bother in there. Liars. Don't disturb me. The truth hurts. Why are you lying? I'm asking you to calm your emotions. That's okay, Marshal. Then don't lie to me. Explain why you didn't approve this in 2009 and 2013. Two years on the committee were waiting. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will now ask a calm question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u167	Dear Marshal, Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen, It is a pity that many of these people did not live to see the time when they could be covered. It's our moral responsibility to these people. Thank you so much for talking to me today. I hope we're talking with no difference, because these people are definitely due. I hope that in the future we will also talk about people, children of war that we should talk about. Perhaps it is worth thinking that these people, today very elderly, need more help in terms of health care. Because we know the value of money, sometimes in life these prices are terribly high. Thank you very much for finding this agreement today. I would ask that in such important matters - Poles see us today - show us [[♪ The bell ♪]] This great culture and showed that we can communicate over divisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u168	Thank you very much. The list of Members of the Committee for Questions has been exhausted. I now ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to thank the President very warmly for this initiative on a very important social issue, which we are discussing during the many term of office of the Sejm. We are making different changes, but I think that for each of us here in this Chamber there is no doubt that no amount of money will make up for the harm that has been done to our fellow countrymen, both those who have been deported and deported to the Soviet Union and in other situations. We try to repair this system for years of free Poland, maybe too slowly, maybe sometimes ineffectively, but I think that this project meets expectations, among others. The Siberian Union, and that's the good way we're going. Of course, the amounts that occur here must be referred to what we have already adopted in various arrangements concerning the Veteran Act concerning people being repressed. We have a supplement of PLN 400, which also applies to those who were deported and are included in the law on combatants. I think an additional 200 zlotys, which will be every month, every year of this deportation, will still make amends for these people. There are conclusions here that we should go straight to second reading. There is, of course, no official government position yet, but I can tell you on behalf of our ministry that this project has the support of our ministry. However, we would like to work it at the committee meeting for various reasons, including. those votes that were cast today at the meeting. It goes on, among other things. We also know that these demands are there, even if we are talking about the issue of miners, as we are talking about them. There is also a question of whether - what is in the justification of the project is also directly enshrined in the bill - those who were sent to forced labour will also be able to benefit from this law. The issue of financial resources is also important. There's a record directly in the bill... There is no direct reference to the fact that this will be financed by the appropriations that will be entered in the Budget Act in the Office for Combatants and Repressed Persons. This is the reason why we are asking that we, having these 2 or 3 days, clarify this proposal on Tuesday at the committee's meeting and adopt good solutions. As we have heard in the speeches of representatives of all clubs, there is full agreement that this draft will be adopted at the next meeting. I think that putting this aside by 2 and 3 days is no longer a major problem, but the idea is that we should clarify this project well and perhaps include those groups of people whose discussion was raised as part of this project. So that from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy is full acceptance for this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u170	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Minister Andrzej Dera, Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u171	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very warmly for the support of all parliamentary clubs of this draft by President Andrzej Duda. I would like to thank you very warmly for the very warm and good words made by Mr Tomaszewski, Mr Grzyb. I think that in such matters we should speak with a common voice, first of all by giving respect to those who deserve it. Unfortunately, those beautiful words were disturbed by Mr Szczerba... As usual. ...who seems to have some hatred in his heart because he sees politics everywhere, sees things he shouldn't see. He should never have said anything about what he said today. Those are words that shouldn't rain. It's disgraceful. You shouldn't be looking for political subtexts. This case is beyond political dispute. It seemed that in this room, you shouldn't throw politics into it. They're just sad words, that's what you're sorry to hear. I hope that you will draw some conclusions from what you are hearing right now. Hate is a bad advisor, sir. We must apologise, sir. He won't apologize. I hope so. Everyone has that opportunity. I'm waiting for an apology for these conversations with... Allow the Minister to speak. Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Dera: There you go. If you want to call a conference, go and talk. Today we are talking about sibirakas, we are talking about very important matters for Poland and for Poles. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! Several important themes were raised here. I'll start with this thread. I liked the words that all political groups who had been in the Polish Parliament since 1989 could do so. Then everyone hit their own chest, because it could've been done a long time ago. Then this witnessing would involve a far greater number of people. Anyone could have contributed to that. Let me remind you that the 2009 project sleeps. President Lech Kaczyński was complex when the PO-PSL coalition ruled. It was then repeated in 2013. In 2018, i.e. in the previous term of office, unfortunately for this project the work has not been completed. The President repeated this because he thinks that this witnessing is simply absolutely necessary. This isn't about money, ladies and gentlemen. And here were the words that I thank you for. This isn't about money, because you can't count the suffering, everything these people have gone through, on any kind of cash. I talked to the sibiraks. I've been to all the last meetings, from Bialystok to Wroclaw. I've been talking to this community. They say it's not about money. They say it themselves. They want this symbolic reparation, symbolic, but for them also very important, because most of these people - here too - have said these words - live in really difficult conditions today. This is something that, on the one hand, will give them some money in the case of this more worthy life, although in the last days of their lives, because that is unfortunately what it will look like. And those voices were falling here, too. Of course, this compensation should be paid to Russia, but Russia will never admit it and will never pay it. It doesn't matter because Russia clearly said it wasn't their business. They'll never pay. The Germans confessed. The Germans paid through the Reconciliation Fund to those victims who suffered from World War II who were in camps that were in forced labor. Russia doesn't. Russia doesn't recognize it at all and no money... In fact, Russia should pay for this. Poland only takes this to make amends for these people. That is why it is very important that we do so in the full consensus of the parliament that operates in 2020 and of the President who was re-elected in 2020. And that's why you submitted this project. Ladies and gentlemen! 400, 200 PLN. Let us give what is possible when it comes to the budget. We have it consulted and it is possible to pay. That's what they say: 200 zlotys. I'd like them to get more, too, but it won't be 300 million, but 600 million. This is a simple change, it's an increase of 200 zlotys, as you said here. Yeah, you can, but that's what we need to talk to the government about budget opportunities. These people don't expect that kind of money that's powerful. It's agreed with this environment. They accept this amount of PLN 200. We didn't come up with this amount on a principle: it's better to have 200 than 400 on paper and unacceptable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Marshal, just a moment, because there were some of those questions. I would like to address these issues. Another thing. There was some concern that these people would have difficulty fulfilling their applications. No, ladies and gentlemen, these people are registered with the Veterans' Office and the Repressed. There is no need to document your stay at the moment. They already have it. These people are registered at the office, which is why we say it's 22,000, because we wouldn't even know how many of them are. These people are numbered. The only thing that is really necessary is that they have to give in this application an account number or an address, where these people are currently, to simply transfer money. That is why this request should be made, but this is the simplest conclusion that can be. Even a neighbor can help, a family can help. Name, surname, place of residence, request for payment of this compensation, of course after the adoption of this law, identification of the account, address and signature. And thank you, that's all. A decision is made within a month. There has to be an administrative decision because it has to be checked whether this person is in this set. If everything is right, this money will be transferred to these people's accounts in a short time. There's no trouble for these people. It's minimal, let's call it that, but it's not a problem to supplement it. What else was there of such important things? Mrs Nowicka asked why this is not an amendment of this law. The question of whether the benefit to the sibiraks will be the subject of a new law or amendment, in the existing trade, is a matter of choosing a specific legislative solution. We thought that at this point, even though this is a law dedicated to sibiracians, it was an emphasis on the fact that it was not an amendment, adding an article somewhere there, you know what it looks like. These people would have trouble reading it if we were to revise and adapt it to existing other laws. This is a law dedicated to Sibirians, where it is written clearly and clearly, for what they are entitled to, what they will receive. It was a conscious choice to make it very clear to these older people that they should know that this is a witness dedicated to those who were there as children or were born there or who were children in the Soviet Union. It's also our conscious decision to make it dedicated to these people. What else do we have here? How many people will receive the benefit, asked the Member. As I said before, this is estimated because, as you said, every day these people die, they are really 80+ or 90+. That's why I asked you to do it in the shortest possible time, because every month of my life is making me feel alive, so I want us to... Now I'm going to refer to whether it's a second reading or a committee. One of the clubs offered an amendment. I think if it's Tuesday at the committee meeting... Tonight. ...the committee will gather, analyze and make a decision. I'm guessing there's a Sejm meeting next week on Wednesday. I don't think it's two or three days anymore. Let's do it right, so there's no doubt about it. As we have already noted, we would need to add another entity that has an account and is not mentioned in the bill, so it is important that it is well done so that it does not have to be brought back so that the Senate does not have to make any corrections, because it will extend this process again. Let's do it right so the Senate doesn't have to interfere, because then it will actually speed up the adoption. If we forget something, the Senate will point out that we have a deficiency, we will have to go through the Sejm again, and this time will unnecessarily extend. To sum up, I thank you very much for all the votes, for the very wise words that have been said here, for the deep support of this project and for the fact that all the clubs supported this project, because politics, parties and parties, but may no parliament ever in the future consider compensation for any deportation, for any forced resettlement, for any repression, just because someone was a Pole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u172	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request for a second reading was made in the discussion immediately after the first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws (print No. 430). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a draft law amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws contained in print no. 430. The drafting and submission of a draft law to the High House has become required because of the need to implement Directive 2018/957 amending Directive 96/71 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services. The provisions of the amending Directive should be implemented in the national legal order by 30 July 2020. First of all, I would like to recall the background to the revision of the Posting of Workers Directive. On 8 March 2016, the European Commission presented a draft amendment to the Directive. It should be noted that the so-called procedure has been launched very rarely in practice in relation to this project. a yellow card in which as many as 11 national parliaments have raised objections. Nevertheless, the Commission maintained its proposal. Poland has been actively involved in EU negotiations since the beginning in opposition to the proposed changes which, in our view, violate the principle of freedom to provide services and, as a consequence, limit the possibility of posting workers in practice. However, after more than two years of battle, a directive was adopted amending Directive 96/71, in the absence of support from Poland, Hungary, the United Kingdom, Lithuania, Latvia and Croatia. The first two countries opposed the adoption, the other countries abstained. On 3 October 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Poland brought an action before the Court of Justice of the European Union against the provisions of the new Directive 218/957. In particular, we have requested that the provisions of the Directive be annulled, which without a clear improvement of working conditions for workers introduce significant obstacles to the possibility of providing services and which, in practice, can cause very serious difficulties. The complaint was mainly based on the allegation that the contested directive restricts the freedom to provide services. Unfortunately, to this day, there is no ruling by the Court on this matter. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will move on to presenting the main solutions contained in the bill. The project includes a modification of the general provisions concerning the definition of an employer posting an employee to the territory of the Republic of Poland and an employer posting an employee from the territory of our country in respect of the posting of temporary workers. It should be stressed that the significant changes to the draft law are related to the modification of the conditions of employment provided to posted workers in the territory of the Republic of Poland, which is linked in particular to the dependence of the scope of protection of workers on the length of posting. I explain: currently, the employer posting an employee to our country must provide the posted worker with a closed catalogue of employment conditions, as defined by the law, no less favourable than that resulting from the Labour Code and other labour law provisions, which include, among other things, the provisions of the Labour Code. minimum wage for work. The proposed project extends this obligation to provide such a full worker, not just a minimum wage for work. This means paying the salary together with all its mandatory components. The new rules do not limit the time of posting of workers to Poland, but extend the list of employment conditions that must be provided to posted workers in case of an extension of the posting period. An employee posted to Poland for a period of up to 12 months should be provided with a closed catalogue of conditions of employment. After 12 months, the employer will be able to apply for an extension of the closed catalogue for a further 6 months. Only after this period will he have to apply to the posted worker in principle all the conditions of employment resulting from Polish law. As regards other matters relating to temporary staff, the separate provisions laid down in the proposed law will apply here. This project also modifies the tasks of the State Labour Inspection, which is already carrying out a number of tasks related to the posting of workers. For example, an extension of informational tasks, an extension of the cooperation of the State Labour Inspection with the competent authorities of other Member States can be mentioned. It will also allow for the presence of a State Labour Inspection to an employer posting an employee from our country, to an entrepreneur, to the Social Insurance Institution also in the event of a suspected infringement of the legislation of a Member State. All the provisions contained in the Act are intended to implement the Directive, which is why I am asking the High House to adopt the solution proposed in the draft Print Act No 430. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. The list of speakers in this section is as follows. Mr Sylvester Tulaev will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the positive position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws. The project aims to implement Directive 2018/957 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 28 June 2018. The deadline for transposition - reminded the Minister - expires on 30 July 2020. On 8 March 2016, the European Commission presented the justification for the proposal for a Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Directive 96/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 December 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services, accompanied by a summary of the impact assessment. According to these documents, the purpose of amending Directive 96/71 was to address unfair practices and promote the principle that the same work at the same place should be remunerated. According to the Commission's assessment, the amendment to Directive 96/71 was intended to confirm the initial objectives of encouraging the exercise of freedom of cross-border provision of services in an atmosphere of fair competition and respect for workers' rights by adapting them to new economic conditions and the labour market. In the Commission's opinion, this initiative aimed in particular at ensuring fair pay conditions for posted workers and a level playing field between posted workers and local businesses in the host country, as well as improving the clarity of Union legislation. In addition, the project aims to remove the barriers currently encountered by the State Labour Inspection in obtaining information for carrying out its statutory tasks from tax authorities, tax files and those covered by tax confidentiality. The bill consists of seven articles. In particular, the Act of 10 June 2016 on the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services is amended. A detailed description of the proposed amendments is provided in the explanatory memorandum of the draft law. The government proposes 17 amendments, which relate primarily to the modification of the definitions, introduce very extensive and very necessary modifications to the minimum conditions of employment, introduce a 12-month guarantee period for the application of minimum conditions of employment, also provide for the possibility to submit a reasoned notification, extend the level of the guarantee of the conditions of employment in case of failure to provide a reasoned notification until the expiry of the 12-month period of posting, or if the period of posting exceeds 18 months in case of submission of the abovementioned notice. notifications. It introduces a number of different important changes, among others. The one I mentioned, i.e. the modification of the tasks of the State Labour Inspection, also modifies the powers of control of the State Labour Inspection, introduces criminal provisions, introduces editorial changes. The following article also amends the Tax Order - the 1997 Act. There is a proposal to add to the Tax Order in Article. 299 in § 3 Paragraph 15a, according to which the information contained in the tax files, excluding some of the information referred to in that provision, will also be made available to the authorities of the State Labour Inspection to the extent necessary to carry out its statutory tasks. Other articles which are to be followed are of the nature of articles introducing transitional provisions. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 7 it is planned that the Act will enter into force on 30 July 2020. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I ask for this bill to be adopted and I express a positive position on this matter. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u176	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mariusz Witczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u177	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an important bill. This is an important act, because it concerns in the widest terms the Polish economy, the labour market in Poland and the development of many Polish entrepreneurs, who invite co-workers to the territory of Poland, friendly companies or co-operatives from the Member States of the European Union. Unfortunately, this bill was prepared in five to twelve. As the Minister said, the provisions of this directive that have been implemented must enter into force by the end of July. You still have a duty to draw up regulations. This is a very unfavourable situation for entrepreneurs. It should be borne in mind that this law was written for entrepreneurs, not for officials, and since it should have been prepared for entrepreneurs much earlier, entrepreneurs should have much more time to learn about the rules of this law, and they will not have that time. Failure to comply with the requirements you impose on businesses, companies or employees posted on their own account or by branches, companies of the Member States of the European Union, failure to comply with these provisions of the Act will result in serious legal or fiscal consequences. Therefore, from this point of view, you should be very deeply criticised for the fact that you have prepared this law at the last moment. I must also say that since this is a law for entrepreneurs, it should be prepared in a transparent and communicative manner. Moreover, the principles of the democratic rule of law are based on the principle of correct legislation. On the other hand, the various concepts, the rules that you formulate, are not clear and precise. I'll just draw your attention to two things. There is a reference to the applicable law in the law, and you often rely on it. In fact, if you read this law precisely, you are not aware of the law you are talking about - whether the countries that delegate workers to the Polish or Polish territory. I understand, of course, what was the intention of the state to write this bill, but this is a serious problem. The entrepreneur will have to consult with major law firms to know exactly how to interpret this law, and that is highly reprehensible. Another problem. It is clear from the provisions of the project that you do not cover issues relating to road transport, but you are referring to this in the explanatory memorandum. And yet the entrepreneur will not read the justification, since you have not included these issues in a precise way in the text of the law. In conclusion, on the one hand, there is a directive that we should adopt, because if we do not adopt it, we are entering into the area of formal legal consequences as a Member State of the European Union, and on the other hand you are preparing a unclean, little communicative law which, as a law for entrepreneurs, should be a precise and clear document. Not to mention this, and I'm going to say it again, that you guys prepared it at the last minute, which is absolutely reprehensible. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also worth recalling that you filed a complaint with the Court some time ago. That's what the Minister mentioned, too. It also did not relieve you of the fact that for two years it would be necessary to prepare and inform entrepreneurs who would operate in the territory of the Republic of Poland or to delegate their employees. The truth is that you have prepared a complaint to the TSUE in a bad way, and I will say it simply because this complaint has been very criticised and there is probably no effect on it. As a matter of principle, we adopt the Directive as a Member State. Another moment and this law would be expired, so of course this law needs to be clarified, made more communicative and adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u178	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Maciej Necessary, who will present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a good day for Poland because we are taking a step towards a solidarity Europe. True, at the last moment and clearly against the will of both the Law and Justice and the Civic Platform, but we are taking this step and this is a good step. In a world threatened by a climate crisis, economic, rampant inequalities, the ever-increasing power of large corporations, a strong, coherent and solidarity Europe is exactly what we need, because no country can cope with the challenges of the future on its own. The issue of posted workers raises huge emotions throughout Europe because it affects the heart of what this Europe is supposed to be - whether Europe is only to be a free market governed by a ruthless, heartless principle of profit, or whether - and this is what the Left would like - it should be based on the principles of solidarity and cooperation and guarantee that every European woman and every European will be able to count on fair pay and decent living conditions. The discussion about posted workers over the years has aroused such emotions, because this is also a discussion about whose interests Europe will be in. The question is whether Europe will be set up in the interests of large corporations flooding Brussels with an army of lobbyists or whether Europe will be set up in the interests of the working majority, Europeans and Europeans who live from the first to the first really maintain this continent. Big corporations will do anything, use every recipe, any legal gap to pay as little as possible, avoid labour law and avoid taxation. Our answer must be a solidarity Europe, which is equal to up and not down. Changing the Posting of Workers Act - that sounds very complicated, but it's really simple. The point is that an employee who is posted by a company to work in another country can count on the same minimum wage and work conditions as workers in a given country. Sound fair? For us, yes, but both the Platform and the PiS in the European Parliament voted against this principle. They voted that way because they want to compete with cheap labour costs, which means they want to compete with the fact that Poles are cheap, they can be paid less and treated worse. So much for getting out of your knees. The left is clear: a Polish employee cannot earn less and can be treated worse than a Frenchman, a German and a Czech working by his side. We say more: the lack of solidarity and the equation to the bottom in the long run does not pay anybody in Europe. Sure, you can say that for some time Polish companies will gain something from it, that they pay less and treat employees worse. Weak is the idea of developing a country. But let us assume that this is the case, that the right hand has won and that Europe is still ruled by free market dogmatism. What's going on? Polish workers are cheaper and compete with them Germans, French. And those competing Germans, the French suddenly have a cut in wages or lose their jobs. What do they think they're doing? I don't give a damn about Europe. It's none of my business. And hence, from this competition down to the bottom, the tensions are coming up that are blowing up the European Union. Is that what we really want? That's not all. Let's assume for a moment that competing with low wages pays for Poland, i.e. The Prime Minister pays off, the companies pay off, because it doesn't work for the employees anymore. But let's assume it is. Well, the Netherlands, Ireland and Luxembourg make it worthwhile for corporations doing business in Poland to pay their taxes. Prime Minister Morawiecki is fighting this, and it is very good that he is fighting tax havens in Europe. I support him in this fight because I want big corporations to pay taxes honestly in Poland. But I have this question: can we effectively claim solidarity in tax matters if we do not show solidarity in labour matters ourselves? Of course not. The left is in favour of a solidarity Europe, a solidarity Europe, that is, one in which we agree that an employee cannot be paid less and treated worse because he came from another country. But that's not all. We want a European minimum wage. We want a Europe where there is a minimum wage below which no one in any country can be paid. We want a solidarity Europe in which corporations pay taxes honestly because there are no tax havens, there are no smart-ass countries that earn money at the expense of others. Only such a Europe, solidarity and strength, is able to meet the challenges of the future. But ideas are one thing, and execution is another. This law is indeed underdeveloped and needs to be amended and we will therefore present amendments to the Left, which will ensure that this equal treatment of workers will not only remain on paper. Firstly, the Act imposes new obligations on the already extremely underfunded State Labour Inspection. We will make amendments that will fix this, which will ensure this funding. Second thing. The aim is to achieve what is in this directive, i.e. to ensure that sanctions for dishonest entrepreneurs are effective (the bell), proportionate and dissuasive. It's gonna take more than a fine from $1,000. PLN up to 30,000. zł, because for the biggest companies it is not any cost. Therefore, we will make an amendment that will make these penalties proportionate to the real scale of the company's activities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u180	Mr Dariusz Klimczak will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u181	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 on amending the Act on Posted Workers. It is a law that will apply from 30 July and which means for Polish entrepreneurs that it is necessary to comply with the new rules, i.e. higher costs and new problems. The history of this directive is longer, because once the countries of the European Union had planned to introduce these changes in the legislation, but at that time Poland's position was strong enough that we defended our companies, with the so-called. a blocking minority. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy at that time was Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. He was the one who talked to the leaders of European countries about this. I remember exactly how in November 2013 the Labour Mobility Initiative, the Polish Labour Agency Convention, the Polish Chamber of Commerce, the Polish HR Forum and the Association of the Employment Agency expressed their deep concern at the direction of the draft implementation directive on the enforcement of the Posting of Workers Directive in the framework of the provision of services. Support, or even rescue, were then sought by the Minister of Labour of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish and received such support and rescue. Why didn't it work this time? After all, according to the propaganda of Law and Justice, Poland is only now beginning to count in Europe. How does it count, then, if the new EU law is above all a whip for Polish entrepreneurs, for Polish companies? It is therefore worth recalling the compromise reached in the 2014 Directive, after the two-year, very difficult negotiations, in which Minister Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz showed great effectiveness. One of the objectives of that compromise was to ensure that workers' rights were respected. The new Directive not only regulated monitoring of compliance and administrative cooperation, but also imposed obligations on Member States to ensure transparency of information on employment conditions and existing obligations. It has never been our agreement to build new walls in Europe under the banner of protecting workers' rights and fair competition. So far, we have been able to successfully convince that mobility is an opportunity for the Union, not a threat - until the rule of government in Poland embraced Law and Justice. It is worth noting that Poland is an EU leader in the posting of workers. This illustrates, for example, the number of A1 certificates issued, i.e. the documents determining which social security legislation the worker is subject to. According to the latest data, out of almost 3 million certificates issued on Polish companies, there are over 605 thousand, so that's almost 30% all issued to posted workers throughout the European Union. According to various studies Poles are leaders of labour mobility across Europe. Unfortunately, other countries of the European Union, especially the so-called. The old Union, they see Polish mobility differently, calling it social dumping, which is obviously not true, because our employees actually fill a competence gap, especially in countries such as France, Germany or even Belgium. What's going to happen to our entrepreneurs? Administrative and legal martyrdom in the host country. This needs to be multiplied several times, because in many countries entrepreneurs usually operate. Each of the entrepreneurs who intend to continue their activities, or rather have no exits, must, first of all, be quick to understand the characteristics of the host country as regards the components of remuneration, secondly, the so-called. calculations on cumulative periods of posting. The new Directive introduces a maximum period of posting, while earlier such terms were not. All of this could be avoided if our government counted in the European Union. An example of this directive shows on hand that the PiS government has a good position in Europe, but only when it is reported by TVP news. Unfortunately, that's the sad truth. The new law, in my opinion, has a protectionist and discriminatory character vis-à-vis our country. I'm afraid this could lead to at least a huge loss for 15,000. Polish companies, and consequently many of them, and at least the loss of jobs by employees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u182	Thank you very much, sir. I would ask the floor of Mr Krystian Kamiński, who will present the position of the Association of Members of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The EU Posting of Workers Directive will apply from 30 July 2020. The Government's draft law amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws is the implementation of this EU directive, a directive which we all know is particularly unfavourable to Poland, and actually to the whole of Central and Eastern Europe, the beneficiary of which will be Western European countries, a directive which clearly contradicts the principle of freedom to provide services and movement of workers within the European Union. So let's look at what consequences this directive will have for Polish posting companies, what is new for Polish entrepreneurs because of the weakness of Poland in the international arena. And so: to limit posting in principle to 12 months, in exceptional circumstances, to 18. The long-term delegation and the permanent posting at which the replacement takes place will be de facto prohibited. There will be a practical ban on posting in stationary industries: production, logistics, care and other industries where services are carried out for many months and years in the same place. New restrictions and burdensome and costly formal requirements await us. There will be a categoric ban on companies not carrying out significant domestic activities in accordance with export activities. There will be a categoric ban on posting workers who do not usually provide work in Poland. The new rules provide for the so-called. cross-checks, i.e. extensive research by foreign institutions and by the ZUS of the company's ability to delegate and the ability of employees to be delegated. Another ZUS controls - a great idea, I'm sure everyone will be happy. But further: after the entry into force of the new rules, the salaries of posted workers will significantly increase. Polish companies will be charged higher costs for other claims due under the regulations of the countries to which the employees are posted. But that's not all. Appropriate modifications will also be in force soon with regard to A1 certification. Most Polish posting companies will no longer receive A1 forms and will not be able to post workers abroad. The new legislation assumes the limited validity of document A1, express verification and repeal of forms A1 by the ZUS and by foreign institutions, as well as automatic and instant execution of foreign contributions. Is Poland really such a small EU country that our opinion that our interests have no meaning for the rest of us? The introduction of this directive is a restriction on the freedom to provide services and the movement of workers guaranteed by the Treaties of the European Union and the action, the main motive of which is precisely to eliminate the competitive advantage of Poland. Poles are about 20% out of about 3 million delegated in the European Union, the largest national group. We spend about 600,000 a year. A1 certificates. The delegation deals with about 90,000 people in Poland. companies - huge market, a lot of Polish entrepreneurs who without any help built a big business and brought billions of PLN to Poland. In whose interest is this directive? In the interest of Germany and France, of course. The posting companies, i.e. the Polish companies, will either move their offices to these countries or they will be dissolved and the workers will be employed in Germany or France. The profits of these companies will no longer flow to Poland, and revenue from taxes and social security contributions may decrease by even several billion. And this is all happening in times of crisis. Unfortunately, we're not gonna stop that. The new rules on posting do not apply for the time being for road transport, because the directive makes an exception to this, but we all know that the so-called "ongoing" will come into force soon. mobility package. This means that our international transport will also lose very much. The fight to stop the Posting of Workers decree, you lost, that's what I'm talking to the government, with cretes. You were unable to defend Polish business based on posting workers against EU restrictions. At least try to protect our transport. Otherwise, Poland, Polish entrepreneurs will lose all these artificial limitations, and you will be responsible for it because you have not created a proper coalition to prevent it. And in that case, Uncle Sam won't help you. You must build good relations with other countries of the European Union in order to be able to create a coalition that will take into account our Polish interests. Yet concerning the statement of the Left Member, who spoke of poor earning. Let me just remind you that the total payout in the party is $200,000, so if you're looking for tax havens, you've actually found him in the left-wing party. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u184	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. Ms Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The classics of the ruling party species in the form of last-minute throwing laws extremely important for employers, entrepreneurs, employees. For what can we call 2-year negligence? You were 2 years old, Minister, to implement the EU directive. That's how you treat businessmen. For example, the presence of you, one person from the government, shows how entrepreneurs are treated in Poland. Such an important bill was kept for two years, and today one government representative. My question to the Minister: What will happen when such complicated provisions of the Act are not implemented in time by entrepreneurs? Who's gonna pay for this? What kind of punishment will they face? Will Polish entrepreneurs bear the cost for the government's tardiness? Are you so supportive of Polish entrepreneurship (The Bell) and employees that you are posting at the last minute, 15 days before the deadline, an extremely important law, which can be used by thousands of Polish workers and thousands of Polish companies? For me as a former entrepreneur, it's just a scandal. That's how business is treated in this country. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u186	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, As the bill and its justification do not describe the reasons for the delay, I have a question: Why did you send this draft law to the Sejm only on June 15 and not, as the provisions of the Law on Government Cooperation with the Sejm and the Senate on the enforcement of European Union law say, 5 months earlier? True, it is possible to give up if there is any special justification. Maybe there wasn't time. I ask that today the Minister be gracious to give the reasons for this delay. The second point is precisely the effectiveness of the State Labour Inspection after the entry into force of this law. What instruments will the National Labour Inspection have in order to effectively control, enforce legislation? Third, issues relating to equality of treatment between men and women, as well as (the bell) non-discrimination rules. How will they be implemented under this law? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u188	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question. In the explanatory memorandum to this law, we learn a very interesting thing, namely: The State Labour Inspection is currently experiencing very great difficulties in obtaining information from tax authorities on the turnover of the entrepreneur, so labour inspectors are to have access to documents covered by the tax secret. I have a question about a very lousy argument for this record. Namely, I would like to ask: Why didn't the designer explain how knowledge of the turnover of the employer of the posting worker is intended to help establish the legality of the employment of the posted worker? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u190	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u191	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few questions. The first one concerns the schedule. All of us have already jointly, so to speak, criticized the government for its delay. I will not inquire about the reasons for it, but I suppose that, in view of the fact that you have slipped as far as the timetable is concerned, you already have the implementing rules for this bill. If so, could you possibly get acquainted with them? Secondly, it concerns cabotage. We know that this law, like this directive, does not apply to cabotage, but in the explanatory memorandum we have found that work is being done to regulate cabotage under Polish legislation. Who does this work and at what stage are they? I'll also ask for that information. Thirdly, I wanted to ask about the negotiating and legal strategy, both as regards (the bell) this directive and the Mobility Directive and the complaint that the Polish Government has made in this case to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Is there a team that coordinates the complex of these problems or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u192	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u193	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are implementing EU law on posted workers, which Polish slave workers traders in the Union have already learned to handle. Today we will also be deliberating on whether we have confidence in Ziebra and Kaminski's ministers. I ask: What does the Polish government do to protect Polish workers from bandits who, by pretending to be intermediaries, direct to slave labor abroad? For years Poles have been working in slaughterhouses, in fields, in constructions, also directed there by pseudoagencies of work. Does anybody do that? PG? Prosecution? In Zielona Góra he hula himself a company, which German trade unions already filed a complaint for inspection of work on premium fraud 3 years ago. This company wasn't competent to delegate workers because it wasn't a job agency. Why are the Germans after our rascals, not Mr. Ziobro and Mr. Kaminski? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u194	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u195	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Responding to certain concerns regarding posted workers, I think that every employee would like to be posted to the board of the party together. There they are actually very, I would say, worthy of earnings. Probably many posted workers, but also ordinary Polish workers, do not earn as much as in this most, I would say, leftist party. That's pretty interesting. Of course, this directive is absolutely protectionist. We can all regret that the Government of Law and Justice simply lost this fight in a hopeless way, took up completely side-by-side things without taking seriously the interests of Polish companies and Polish employees. This is a very large negligence of the government of law and justice. This passage concerns the posting to Poland, but I have a question for the Minister about the growing protectionist practices applied by other countries throughout Europe. What did the government do to stop? [[♪ The bell ♪]] those practices that have recently hit Polish companies very strongly, especially the transport industry? We all see that this is happening, and the government is silent, condemning our companies and employees working there simply to deny foreign markets. What are your actions on this? How will you protect Polish companies and Polish employees? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u196	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The legislator introduces changes to the posting of workers, in the new article obliges the employer to make some kind of declarations, commitments. I have a technical question. I've been an employer for 20 years. Is the legislator planning to issue an appropriate print, a template, a statement that will make it easier for employers to meet their formal requirements? It is about something that for the entrepreneur will be clear, filled with due care, prints, which will certainly be subject to scrutiny by state institutions. It is very important for entrepreneurs to be clear and clear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u198	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Paulina Matysiak, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Messengers! Gentlemen! Recently, there has been an arrogant response from the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, which was received by Polish Senior Caregivers working in Germany. It is estimated that about 200,000. The babysitter works in Germany in black, so they asked the Polish government to engage with the German party in order to protect them with German legal protection. What did they hear in the official response of the Ministry to the union alternative? That they have to deal with themselves because they are in a good negotiating position and there are many job offers. The Ministry reflected and sent another answer a day later, but certainly such treatment of Poles and Poles who ask for help is scandalous. The adoption of the bill we are discussing today is necessary and necessary. However, given the ministry's actions, I fear it will remain a dead law. Therefore, I have questions: Are the rulers going to take the side of Polish workers (Dawn) and Polish nannies? Can any Polish nanny be sure that she will soon be treated the same as her German friend? Can she be sure that she will have a job and the same rates as her German friends? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u200	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have this question: Was it possible, however, to introduce into this law provisions concerning the conditions of residence of posted workers? The media has often informed about the cases of our citizens who lived in different types of places where housing standards were certainly not respected, about which we could say that these premises were not residential premises and had nothing to say that they were dwellings. Question two. Well, there were two years to prepare this bill. Therefore, I have a question of where are the implementing acts for this bill. This is not why I ask that good legislative practice should be that these implementing acts should accompany us here today, but that is just what employers are asking. Where are the acts? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because there are different types of records that need to be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u202	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u203	Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members! After losing the fight in the European Union, the government did not try to defer this directive to us. Well, he could have. There are situations where we have been behind for years with the implementation of directives, in particular in areas where the European Union, surprisingly, has a more liberal right than our country. That's for example. the Trade and Arms Directive. At the moment, Polish law is more oppressive, and secretly in the ministry it is supposed to be an even more oppressive project. Meanwhile, new responsibilities are imposed here. The National Labour Inspection will be given new responsibilities. It will be possible to transfer data. Our services, our taxpayers themselves will finance oppression against Polish entrepreneurs, against Polish companies, so that foreign companies that were scared of Polish competition can easily finish it. Germany and France, which sought this directive themselves, did not implement it. Polish entrepreneurs do not know what will happen after 30 July and can be threatened by double checks [[♪ The bell ♪]] on the side and abroad, and our inspections. This situation is unacceptable, unacceptable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u204	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Wanda Nowick. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u205	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! It's about time and last bell that this bill, so important from the point of view of posted workers, was adopted. Listening to the discussion in the Chamber today, I had the impression that this law was actually used to harass and persecute entrepreneurs, not to help the workers, those Polish workers who are still treated as second or third-class workers after nearly 20 years of being part of the European Union. Finally, it was necessary to introduce legislation so that workers can be treated equally with workers in other European Union countries. The question I have is about the State Labour Inspection. I have the impression here that the State Labour Inspection (Bell) has also not been given sufficient powers to respond to the non-fulfilment of this directive and this law in a proactive and not only reactive manner. The point is that employees can make full use of the provisions of this law so that it is not a dead letter. Doesn't the Ministry provide for strengthening the instruments for the State Labour Inspection in such a way that the inspection can also proactively monitor how this law is respected, in particular from the perspective of temporary workers who are particularly discriminated against? Thank you. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u206	Thank you very much. Now the question will be asked by Mr Killion Munyama, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that Polish transport companies are practically a leader in the European Union. They carry more than 28% of all cargo in its territory. I note that the directive must be adopted in the Member States by 30 July, 15 days from now. Hence the question: Why are we just discussing this project at the very last minute? What will happen when we fail to adopt this directive? The second question I would like to ask is: How does the government intend to meet the emerging aggressive competition from the East, which (The Bell) is practically making the most space for itself in international freight transport? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u208	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The well-understood protection of workers' rights in the 21st century is, of course, a standard of civilization, but what you are proposing here, especially on the Left side, and what you are calling for, is simply nothing but Eurocommunism. This is simply the real realization of the Eurocommuna. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Yes, it's optimistic to you, as I see it, and it's optimistic to you. It's just a pattern. Of course, this is Eurocommunism for 200,000. for a year, the state of the party's board of directors together, we already know this from the property statements. On the other hand, I have a question for government representatives. Unfortunately, there is a gross failure to pursue Polish interests within the European Union. We know that the European Union is a forum for confrontation of national interests. Germany pursues its interests with regard to transport services, with regard to Nord Stream and in other cases. Let us finally stop with this phraseology (the bell) of some common interests and start talking in an open text about what is at stake in Brussels, in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u210	Thank you very much. And the question will be asked by Mr Dobromir Sosnierz from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u211	I have a proposal that the state on the left and on the right stop throwing each time responsibility for losing another vote in the Union because we have been losing all of them for years. This is the way the Union is organised, that we have a minority there and all important votes, in which our interests differ from those of Germany, we lose. There are no inverse examples. When Mr Suchoń spoke here, he did not mention through modesty that Members of the Civic Platform were also involved in this failure. I was there too, bitter of failure I drank, I saw Members of the Civic Platform forcelessly protesting, asking for a repetition of the vote in which they were wrong because of the excessive pace imposed by the president, and even such a gesture of courtesy could not ask. So this failure is really spreading into more political forces. In the European Union, we are always playing free market only when it pays off to Germany and France. When it stops paying off, when it turns out that they can't find themselves in the free market, when they lose in the free market, they say, "Ah, wait a minute, that's not how we're gonna play, here we have to implement some regulations. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's no different this time. I regret the fact that the Polish government is not only taking on the role of imposing a muzzle on its own citizens, it still turns out to be so zealous, because I have the impression that we could not only implement this directive later, but also in a slightly more penetrating way, so as not to be such a zealous guardian of the muzzle imposed on our own citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u212	Thank you. The State Secretary at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Mr Stanisław Szwed, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The directive is indeed complicated. Most of you haven't talked about this bill. That's not what she's talking about. This applies to foreign companies that delegate workers to our country, not to posting in the other direction. The directive on the posting of our workers is adopted by other countries in their solutions. If we look at the data that prove it, in 2019 7793 declarations on posting of workers into our country were received by 1591 foreign employers posting workers to Poland. More than 31 000 postings have been reported. employees, i.e. more than 31 thousand. employees from foreign companies were posted to our country. The other way, yes, in fact, in terms of posting of Polish workers, more than 648 thousand. to the countries of the European Union, but our direction is completely different. A few more very important things. I will worry my colleagues from PSL because the implementation directive was implemented in 2014. The negotiations were conducted by Minister Mleczko of PSL. This is the beginning of what we're talking about today. Implementation Directive. Today, the directive only changes a certain passage. The implementation directive was implemented under the rules of the Civic Platform and PSL. An important issue with this amending directive is that in the first period we managed to introduce the so-called. yellow card procedure, i.e. 11 countries that opposed these implementations, but we still did not have any support. The European People's Party, in which there is also PSL, and the Civic Platform, has not taken any action so that we can fight for good solutions in the European Union. This is what the former MEP Mr Sosnierz was talking about. It is worth remembering when it comes to conversations. As far as deadlines are concerned, the project was prepared at the end of last year. On 28 January, he went to a public consultation. He was consulted with the social partners, with the employers, so that it is not that nobody knew about this project. On 15 June it was sent to the Sejm. One of the reasons why this subject was a little longer being examined was because we were waiting for the European Court, the Court of Justice. In the event of a positive opinion on our proposal and on Hungary's appeal, this directive will have to be revised. Today we do not have this decision, hence this decision. As regards the countries that are also at the implementation stage today, Belgium, the Czech Republic, France, Malta, Lithuania, Slovakia and Germany, i.e. those countries have a directive in place at the moment. Austria, Denmark and Finland are at a similar stage as we are, which is right now... The rest of the countries are still waiting for this directive to be implemented. There were questions about the State Labour Inspection. This budget has been increased by almost 7%. Of course, the labour inspection budget is created at Parliament level. It's not a government unit, it's a parliament. As regards the issue relating to those decisions which arise from the decision of the Court of Justice, this work is coordinated by the NPRM, Mr Szymański, his representative directly attends the meetings of the Court of Justice, representing our country. At the committee's meeting, we will propose an amendment so that this law will enter into force 14 days after the announcement, i.e. there will still be an opportunity to see the solution adopted. We hope that this procedure will take place quickly and that this will still be possible at the next session of the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u214	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm refer the government draft law on the amendment of the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws, contained in print No 430, to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. At the same time, the Marshal of the Sejm pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall set a time limit for the submission of the committee's report by 21 July 2020. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estate, issued in violation of the law and the Act on the Real Estate Management (Prints Nos 420 and 451). I now ask Mr Mark Ast to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the draft law amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estate, issued in violation of the law and the Law on the Real Estate Management, prints Nos 420 and 451. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 On 17 June 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for first reading. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meetings on 18 June and 8 July 2020, brings forward: The High Sejm shall approve the attached draft law. At the same time, the committee in accordance with the Rule. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicants, submit three minority applications submitted by the Left Club which have not been accepted by the committee. It is worth noting, however, that the committee, in agreement with the applicants and the government party, accepted three other conclusions of the Left, which shows that the project was being examined above the party divisions, which gives real satisfaction. The Commission on the project, as I have already mentioned, worked at two meetings. Indeed, the project has gained the support of virtually all the clubs of the High House, so it is very good for the functioning of this law. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, I would like to introduce as at the outset. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u216	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Marek Ast on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present the position of the club as to the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and the Real Estate Management Act. I think that after this first reading of the bill in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, it is worth recalling the main assumptions of this project precisely because the first reading took place not here, in the plenary room, but in the committee. The proposal, as I have already mentioned as the rapporteur of the committee, has really broad support for all parties in the Sejm. This is due to the fact that it was created to ensure the smoother functioning of the committee for carrying out its statutory tasks. The examination of the provisions of the Act led applicants to believe, however, that it is justified at this stage to introduce legislative changes which would counter the chronicity of proceedings before the Commission and serve to increase citizens' confidence in the committee. The main directions of the changes proposed were the granting of power of attorney, the lawyer, the representation of the committee or the extension of the existing catalogue of reasons for imposing an obligation to return the equivalent of undue benefit. In addition, in order to improve and speed up the procedure for granting compensation and redress by the committee to the disadvantaged tenants of Warsaw real estate, it is also proposed in this draft regulation that the opposition to the decision of the commission granting compensation or compensation will be granted only to the tenants of Warsaw real estate. In view of the exclusion of the possibility for the capital city of Warsaw to object, the logical consequence of such a direction of legislative change is that the contested decisions under the existing provisions granting compensation or redress are deemed to be final and final, and compensation and redress will be paid to entitled persons within 14 days of the date of entry into force of this Act. These changes, these proposals, were strongly supported by tenants' associations. But, which is worth noting, also from the owners was acceptance for this project. This shows that changes are going in the right direction and deserve support. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of today's bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u218	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Mr Michael Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! After 5 years of government, PiS Warszawa and other cities are waiting for a large act of reprivatization, a law which was promised, which was founded 3 years ago at a conference in the Ministry of Justice presented by Patrick Jak with Dr. Zaradkiewicz. It's been three years, the bill's as big as it wasn't, it's not. High Izbo! All the time, the only law that worked, a law that does not exhaust the needs of the capital city of Warsaw, is a small act of reprivatization. But when it was adopted, PiS abstained. Today it protects cultural institutions, schools, parks, sports facilities. This amendment to the Law on Special Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions proposed by the Parliamentary Club PiS is an attempt to correct its own errors. We've been telling you all along what mistakes these are. We said the bill on the verification commission was written hurriedly and on the knee. Its aim was not at all to set up an institution that would comprehensively solve the problems of wildlife reprivatization and repair the damage of tenants. It was something else. We saw it perfectly in the Warsaw campaign of Patrick Jaki. Lost campaign, we all remember that. Then the subject of the verification commission, the subject of reprivatization became less relevant to the PiS. Ladies and gentlemen! What's the most important thing about this case? In this case, the most important are comprehensive solutions so that no more human harm, no more drama, no more tragedy. It cannot be that written on the knee of the bill, hastily, without reflection, only cause trouble and legal chaos. This bill has already been amended once. Now it's being updated for the second time. This bad bill must, of course, be fixed. The promise to pay compensation was uncoverable, and they're needed. This case needs to be dealt with. This was the position of the Civic Coalition club for a long time, such was the position of the President of Warsaw and Warsaw City Hall. That is why, in our previous term of office, we submitted a separate bill on compensation for each tenant who was entitled to the aid and not only for those whom the committee itself chooses. But PiS rejected this project. The city of Warsaw has also indicated for a year how this law needs to be improved so that compensation can be paid. The adoption of the proposed changes now opens the way to their payout at least for some people. But that doesn't change the fact that it doesn't do the job at all. It's just a small step away from having to deal with the biggest problems. The project does not solve the problems related to claims of former owners of real estate taken over by the Decree on agricultural reform, the Act on takeover into the property of the state of the basic branches of the national economy or many other existing until 1989. Polish cities continue to struggle with the consequences of the elimination from the legal trade of old decisions which form the basis for the acquisition of land by the State Treasury. The problem of reprivatization concerns Poland as a whole, and the PiS proposals concern only the problems of a selected group of Warsaw tenants, without a wider look at the problem faced by the big cities in the country in particular. High Izbo! Without system solutions, complex, balanced between the rights of former owners, the interests of cities, the rights of tenants and social values, this law will only be another small law. Where, then, is the large bill we have been talking about for five years and which was promised three years ago? Without it, the spirit of reprivatization will continue to scare, and it will be like a dragon whose heads are cut off, and in their place they still grow new. The Civic Coalition Club supports the project, but it requires a number of amendments and clarification of some of the provisions to ensure the sustainability and certainty of reprivatisation decisions which will be brought before the administrative courts by former owners. The need for these changes is also indicated by the Attorney General. They cannot find support for records that de facto deprive former owners of any rights to return lost property without any compensation. The question of liability for damages on the part of the State Treasury also requires regulation. The adoption of the proposed provisions without any changes identified by the city (the bell) puts the city under considerable compensation for former owners of real estate. Thank you very much. High Izbo! By supporting this bill, we are making amendments to this bill. These amendments are 13. We very much hope that the Committee on Justice and Human Rights recommends these amendments positively and that the High House will accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u220	Thank you. Please, now Mrs Magdalena Beyat on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u221	High Izbo! The house is a place where we come home tired to rest, where we spend time with our family. It is the foundation of balance in other areas of life: professional, health, family. Having a home, a place where we can hide and regenerate, is one of the basic needs of man and citizen. This need is reflected in the Polish Constitution. Art. 75 says: public authorities are pursuing policies aimed at meeting citizens' housing needs, in particular preventing homelessness, supporting the development of social housing and supporting citizens' efforts to get their own housing. The protection of tenants' rights is governed by the law. Unfortunately, for the past 30 years, other governing teams have not properly fulfilled this constitutional obligation. The basic needs of thousands of tenants, Polish citizens turned out to be less important than the interests of owners, people with claims. They were so insignificant to officials, judges, reprivatisation businessmen that they did not make any effort to verify, confirm their authenticity, find or find the actual heirs. Crime and corruption flourished, and the tenants were brutally harassed by companies specialized in cleaning houses. Reprivatization proceedings were carried out above the heads of those who were sentenced to uncertainty, who were denied the right to access documents or even reliable information about the progress of the reprivatization process and, consequently, information about their situation and their future. As a result, tenants - often older people, with disabilities, not wealthy - lived in uncertainty and stress for years. For 30 years, tenants of tenants and local authorities have asked for regulation of reprivatization claims, to create systemic solutions that would guarantee civilized humanitarian settlement in a dispute between citizens' housing rights and property rights. After wild reprivatization, which affected Warsaw to a particular extent, they called for justice and so far they have not received it. Meanwhile, reprivatization is not only a problem for Warsaw. It is a problem of Krakow, it is a problem of Poznań, Lublin and other cities. Reprivatization proposals also appear in the villages. The problem of reprivatisation not only affects tenants of real estate to which claims arise, but also owners of tenants standing on such land, inhabitants of cities benefiting from public institutions to which reprivatization claims are made, or finally local authorities, which cannot renovate or invest in these buildings. In fact, the problem of reprivatization affects millions of Poles and Poles. Both the small reprivatization law and the reprivatization commission did not effectively solve legal problems, they did not end the dramas of over 100,000. people directly affected by the problem of claims. It is estimated that the reprivatization committee, which only deals with Warsaw issues, would have to work by 2050 to verify all 4,000. proceedings in the capital city. The drawback of the solutions so far, the source of their ineffectiveness is, above all, their incompleteness. The individual solutions cover only a clipping of the problem, focus only on the capital and do not take into account all categories of reprivatized properties due to the way they are taken over by the State. The revision that we are discussing today once again only corrects faulty and ineffective regulations from the ground. This is a good amendment. The Left will vote in favour of it. We appreciate the good intentions. We will support any solution that, albeit to a small extent, will improve the situation of citizens. Our club has tabled amendments to the bill, which include: prevent the return of residential buildings from public resources. Some of these amendments were accepted during the committee's work, and today we are reporting another. We count on their support by the governing camp and by the opposition. But the Left is not going to stop there. We have always defended and defended the fundamental constitutional right of citizens to housing security. We defended the tenants against evictions, we were with them during street demonstrations, and today we defend their rights and seek justice for them here in the Seym. That is why we have created a draft reprivatization bill, which we hope will come to the session of the Sejm in the near future. The Left project is a comprehensive solution that will cover all types of claims throughout the country, not only in Warsaw, and which will give justice to tenants and guarantee fair valuation of the property and the amount of compensation based on the value of the property actually inherited. We appreciate the good intentions of the ruling camp and the difficult topic of reprivatization. We hope that you will appreciate the substantive value of the Reprivatisation Act of the Left Club and support this extremely necessary and awaited solution by citizens, as we today appreciate and support yours. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u222	Thank you very much. Now on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Polish People's Party, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, I would like to present a position on the report of the Justice Commission on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of the legal effects of re-privatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate issued in violation of the law and the Law on the Real Estate Management. For the record, the project is printed with No 420 and No 451. This proposal proposes a regulation whereby only tenants of Warsaw real estate will be entitled to an objection to the decisions of the committees granting compensation or compensation. The project also provides that the city of Warsaw will be deprived of the right to object. Consequently, the project's authors proposed that all decisions granting compensation or redress under the current rules should be considered final and final. This means that the compensation and compensation granted on their basis would be paid to eligible persons within 14 days of the date of entry into force of the above. rules. The project also extends the catalogue of premises that prevent reprivatization, extending it, among others. the case of the occupation of the premises, the property by the tenant, as well as the use of the property for scientific, educational and cultural purposes, the location of the land within, in the area of the public holiday complex or the inability to reconcile reprivatisation with the proper development of neighbouring relations. According to the draft, the person submitting the reprivatisation application may not be represented by an estate curator or guardian established for a person unknown from his/her place of residence. The same applies to possible legal successors of this person. The project also provides for refusal of reprivatisation to a person who has acquired a right or claim from an estate curator or guardian established for a person unknown from his place of residence if there is no basis for its establishment. High Izbo! And these are undoubtedly solutions that will counteract these shameful practices practiced by the so-called. Dealers of claims, leading to great drama and suffering of people and their families living in these properties. To this day, in many cases, this trauma continues. On the other hand, following the footsteps of my previous speakers, I would like to use this moment to express my regret that such a problem is not only affecting Warsaw, but actually the whole of Poland, [[Applause]] smaller and larger towns, including small municipalities. There, too, reprivatisation issues are not regulated, and this will undoubtedly continue. I also regret that the designers lacked determination, courage - I do not know. We may find out why the scope of the regulation, which concerns Warsaw, has not been extended to other places and situations, which are also very, very, very many in the whole country. On behalf of our Polish Coalition Club, I would like to encourage the government today, through the Minister, not to duck, but to face this problem, because it will come back, it will not be forgotten. It is known that these problems in Warsaw were extremely spectacular, but I will repeat once again: they do not only come down to Warsaw. I think we would be ready to talk here in the House about solutions that would allow the problem to be dealt with comprehensively. [[Applause]] On the other hand, on behalf of the Polish Coalition, as far as this project is concerned, I declare my will (The Bell) to participate in further work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u224	Thank you. Mr Jakub Kulesza now has the floor... Mr Grzegorz Braun, on behalf of the Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u225	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few things at once, in a telegraph shortcut. First of all, let's stop using post-peerellian new speech here. Not any reprivatization, just the return of property looted. Either it's ownership or it's not. [[Applause]] The Left never ceases to amaze us with its language invention. Housing safety. We trump it and say: residential justice. We piercing and we say, "I'm checking." Of course, we support all actions that are aimed at returning what is rightfully yours, but you've made such a specialty for it, just like a colleague. that's just said, a scrappy solution to the problem, m.st. Warsaw, under the public action of the committee. On the other hand, on the pretext of fighting the virus, you've virused this bill and there, in this bill, is a fictional service. We'd like to avoid this fiction. The Confederate wheel amendment. Please take this amendment into account in further work. My colleagues continue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u226	Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u227	Ladies and gentlemen! President Ast just said that there was an agreement over the party divisions, and indeed the party divisions were overcome by the community of ideas. And the idea that combined, among other things. Law and Justice with a united Left is a socialist idea. The right of ownership - sacred to every conservative, obvious to every freeman - is to be thrown into a dumpster according to the members of the committee. Why? Because it matters now, I quote here one of the Members of the Justice Committee, the right to an apartment which, attention, is a human right. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] So the traditional natural property right is to be replaced by ideological tumor, the eruption of the communist revolution. I understand that having a place to live is an important thing, but that's why the government should stop interfering with wealth, stop interfering with bureaucracy, with high taxes, and stop signaling to people that it's not worth getting rich, because at any moment the wealth that they're going to collect, in the name of this communist idea, may lose to those who got less rich to make it even. I said strong words here, because I say you're communists, or you're godless, [[Joy in the Chamber]] If it's with the cross in your teeth, you're Communists. That's a controversial statement, so I'm going to support your authority. The words of Prime Minister Morawiecki from a few months ago are: We can honestly say to ourselves: this thought, the working socialist thought, is deeply in the philosophy of Law and Justice present. [[Applause]] This can only be answered with the words of Czesław Miłosz: "They looked in the trunks, looked in the suitcases, / did not look in the ass - there I had socialism. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u228	Mr Jakub Kulesz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was afraid there would be some punishment for quoting Miłosz for Mr Berkowicz. Luckily, there wasn't. What are we talking about here today? We are talking about the negative effects of a huge problem, and the state wants to patch up some electoral committees that were created for the use of the municipal election campaign in Warsaw, and you are not looking at the source of the problem. What is the source of the problem? Of course, communism, which has plundered private property, has led to the fact that a penny of real estate, thousands of properties in Poland, without having its own owner, are destroyed and will in fact soon have no value. Of course, this is what the Mafia has gained through various scams, but the main culprit is all those groups sitting in the Sejm, except the Confederation, which for years have not led to the adoption of a reprivatization law in Poland. or the Compensation Act. Poland is the only country in the post-communist block in which such a law has not been passed. [[Applause]] The last such act was blocked by President Kwasniewski. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like us to finally eliminate the problem of unregulated property relations and proceed to work maybe not on the reprivatization bill, but at least on the Compensation Act, a law that will also regulate the property relationship, because the state has dropped it on the courts. The courts act as they do, we have secondary problems, which you now want to patch with further regulations, another confusion. We have another amendment of this commission law, and the committee also has further problems, for example. exclude further conditions for the return of immovable property, also go beyond the condition relating to real estate intended to serve the public. We don't agree to that. We believe that if we want to solve the problem and also make property in Poland own, not destroy [[♪ The bell ♪]] it was not destroyed by lack of ownership supervision, it must be passed a proper law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u230	We are now approaching the questions. The questions were raised by 15 ladies and gentlemen of the House. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time for the question - one minute. As the first Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The voice of the oppressors sounded, now maybe something of the victim's voice. Exhibition 47 - fine for tenants for banner in defense of their rights. Kilinski's 89 - a tenement, which was set on fire by the so-called. The unfamiliar perpetrators, along with the tenants inside. Tuwima 48 - tenants cut off from property simply by a gate closed by the owner. Cutting off water, destroying cages - this is the reality for tenants in reprivatized houses in Łódź today, and the problem concerns cities all over Poland. Merchants of claims and reprivatization mobs are perfect, because neither the PO nor the PiS depended for years to solve this problem, which is an example of the presented project. The boat's been fighting for every townhouse for eight years. This is more than 100 processes involving 300 properties, in which we even rely on the Napoleon Code. During this time, the PiS prefers to promote itself in an ineffective committee. Prime Minister, Minister, when we finally get a reprivatization bill for the whole of Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] not just for Warsaw? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u232	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill is certainly a step in the right direction, as this will reduce the pathology of reprivatization. Getting rid of tenants' tenants is one of the most disgraceful episodes in our latest history. However, I regret that this opportunity has not been used to take even more effective action. The proposed rules do not clearly define the valuation of real estate, which means that reprivatisation of business can still be maintained. I would therefore like to ask what the government intends to do to make the compensation for the property charged from the value on the day of nationalisation rather than the present value. It would be a real change that would lead to the completion of this shameful procedure. Secondly, the problem is not only about Warsaw. When we can expect solutions also for other cities, for Poznan, Wrocław, etc.? From this place, I thank Beata Siemieniako, Catherine Blackot, all the others who are fighting for the rights of tenants. You're the reason this bill's being processed today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u234	Mr Wand Nowick, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we are discussing is not a reprivatization bill, it is a compensation bill for Warsaw tenants. Damages are important issues, but not enough, and you can't run away from this problem when it comes to the rest of the country. Cases relating to land ownership or tenements throughout Poland should be regulated once and for all, and it cannot be so that only administrative decisions and judgments resolve these issues. Nor can it be that the sitting, limitation of claims or expenditure on real estate in the settlement of the owners is not taken into account. The problem is also the lack of proper entries in the perpetual books, which took place e.g. in Gliwice, where the heirs of agricultural land owners sold their land to a businessman as agricultural land, even though they knew it was not agricultural land. The municipality must have bought it back for millions of zlotys, which incriminating the inhabitants of the city. In Silesia with claims still (the bell) there are owners of tenement houses and land. Minister, when there's a real bill... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u236	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Act, you grant additional powers to the committee previously governed by Patrick Jak, but there is no legal basis for these privileges to have legal effect. There is no legal basis for allocating compensation, estimating the amounts in force to be repaid or expropriated. While a large reprivatisation bill had to be created long ago, and this is obvious, there is now no reason to give more dead in the light of the committee's law of competence to attack political opponents. Why does the legislator consciously adopt poor quality law and confer on the committee privileges that have no grounds and powers of law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u238	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This submission also refers in part to the Real Estate Management Act, in which we will find a catalogue of public objectives, and among them we will find the construction and maintenance of roads, airports, buildings for authorities, courts or schools, the care of monuments and monuments, but we will not find what should be equally important if not the most important, i.e. the accommodation needs of people by public housing managers. The left has tabled an appropriate amendment which fills this gap. Unfortunately, it was rejected during the committee's work. Hence my question. However, will the High House want to accept this amendment because we are going to try it one way or another? Another question. When will there finally be a big reprivatization bill? Here we have an example of the law only for the city of Warsaw, and the problem of reprivatization, the problem of compensation for residents is not only (Dzwonek) the problem of Warsaw, but the whole of Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u240	Member Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have two comments and one question. First note. You have to be aware that after the war many owners, including heirs, were simply dead. And while it was largely, to a large extent, organised plundering by the communist state, it must also be said that, to a limited extent, it was simply impossible to allow Warsaw to look decades after the war. Like Aleppo today. Second note. I appreciate the fact that there is a provision in this law that extends a bit of competence to receive and impose appropriate penalties on the companies of the daughter of the traders of claims. But the key question is: Why does this law de facto eliminate the grounds for verification? Because we're treating it... I'm looking at it a little bit like putting up a white flag against the reprivatization mob. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u242	Member Daria Gosek-Popielek, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a very important and necessary bill. One of those projects, which, despite being so needed, kept them waiting for more than 20 years. However, I would like to draw attention to one simple matter. Although the review committee is generally on the side of tenants, the tenants themselves have limited subjectivity in the proceedings before the committee. This could be changed if, at the request of the tenants, the chairman of the committee could allow them to participate in the proceedings on the rights of the party. And here's the question: Can we possibly count on the support of such an amendment? She would just make things a lot easier for the tenants and would prove that we're taking them as a party, because, in fact, in these proceedings they should have this status. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u244	Thank you. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This Act will, of course, safeguard the rights of tenants and actually terminate the wild reprivatisation of the property with its tenants. This fact, of course, rejoices, although this law is not free of disability. For I ask: What about the rest of the country? Warsaw is not everything. In my family The same fate happened to several dozen tenants and tenants. We have the same problems. The process of house-cleaners at the expense of the poorer part of society has been going on for years and concerns many cities in our country. The Left will submit a comprehensive bill, we have already made public its initial assumptions, and I hope it will meet with the same kindness. We will seek this kindness and support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u246	Mr Maciej Necessary, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have heard a lot about the sacred property law here, but if we look at the history of Warsaw and look at the details, we will see that this is a story in which the city was destroyed, people have social work and their efforts to rebuild the houses, they lived in them and after decades some smart guy comes and wants to take this house away from them. For me, it's a sacred law of stealing, not a sacred right of property. It's time for the right to stealing to stop being sacred. That's why we need a big reprivatization bill, and the Left will file it. We need a large reprivatisation bill that will ultimately resolve claims that prohibit the return of tenements in nature, which will extinguish claims for compensation of 10% values, and this is calculated at the time of taking over the building, which ultimately solves one of the biggest scandals that we have faced over the last decades. Of course, we are counting on the Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's a bill that's gonna support it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u248	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Stopping the return of property inhabited by tenants in nature should be a priority and here the bill meets our expectations. On the other hand, the refusal to return inevitably involves payment of compensation. These damages are often overstated today. Real estate taken over in 1945 was often a pile of rubble, and it was a lot of rubble with debt. Buildings have been rebuilt on these land, extended, and their value has increased significantly. And here's the question: Does the Ministry of Justice see the need to adopt such records that will make real the valuation of the property so that it corresponds to what real estate was actually located after World War II? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u250	Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On this point, I would like to draw attention to another injustice concerning the so-called. housing policy, namely concerning the Company for Restructuring of Mine in Bytom. Many tenants of factory housing managed by this company have been seeking to buy their apartments in accordance with the Act for several years. Citizens who have lived in unrenovated buildings for years, usually paying high rent, finally want to take care of themselves, creating communities, so that their housing and living conditions are significantly improved. Unfortunately, in the following letters, the company, ensuring that it meets the expectations of tenants, is acting too slowly on this matter, doing too little. I would therefore like to ask: When does the government intend to address this issue, which also violates the principles of social justice? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u252	Mr Krzysztof Smishek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to continue with the thought started by President Asta. Thank you for the extraordinarily good atmosphere while working on the committee. From the Left, through the Platform, to the Law and Justice we have this historical awareness that this law is needed. We don't listen to the bangs of the community's Darwinists from the Confederation and we're working on good solutions. The left has proposed and will propose - and we will stand for - to include the widest possible list of situations on the basis of which you will be able to apply for redress and compensation, because the catalogue of these situations, which is used by those who want to recover illegally, is very large. These situations are disgusting and disgusting - intimidation, lodging of tenants, occupying premises. These situations need to be entered in the directory of reasons on the basis of which the tenants will be able to [[♪ The bell ♪]] submit these proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u254	Mr Jan Mosiński, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Is it true that during the reign of the Civic Platform, i.e. President Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, President Marcin Święcicki, Mr Paweł Piskorski, for the total number of 4200 return decisions more than 80% are the decisions of these three presidents, namely President Waltz, Mr Piskorski and Mr Święcicki? Is it true that the committee has examined over 3,000. the decision, showing that m.st. Warsaw returned the value of this property in the amount of more than PLN 21 billion? Is it true that this reprivatisation result, when it comes to illegal reprivatisation, is equal to over PLN 12 billion? And is it true, Minister, that these changes that we are now making (the bell) are about the changes in compensation and redress that will allow us to end the state of the M.S. government. Warsaw? Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club. And finally... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] It was Alexander Kwasniewski who vetoed the reprivatization bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u256	Mr President, you have exceeded your time. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u257	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, the issue of reprivatisation has become a very political matter. You can see that from what my previous speaker said. I think that we should not look at this from the point of view of political interest, but from the point of view of human tragedies that have taken place in connection with this activity in M.S. Warsaw. Many times this question has been raised here and I think we will hear the answer: Is there a planned draft reprivatization bill that will also apply to other cities? The truth is that this problem does not only concern Warsaw, but also other cities in Poland. The next question is the matter of writing in this law, concerning the fact that the objections which the city of Warsaw made today against those decisions which have already been issued, in short, are rejected by this law, and therefore the decisions in this case become final. My question is this: What is the number of these decisions, and what amount is this (The Bell) in terms of Warsaw estates and properties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u258	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, my question concerns other cities. I remember that when we talked about the original bill, of course we had a number of doubts. I also remember that we brought or informed that such events, of all kinds, consistent with what took place in Warsaw, took place in other cities in Poland. I remember when the government said he'd take care of it, of course. To this day, you have not put forward any initiative in this area. Therefore, the question is: When will this initiative come about when will you fulfill your promise? Because the use of this topic only in relation to Warsaw gives rise to the suspicion that this is purely political action, but it is about justice. However, the idea is that the whole of Poland should be the same in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u260	Thank you. Mr Sebastian Kaleta, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today we are working on a case that is close to any person with any empathy. We are talking about the Warsaw case, who for years in the privacy of their tenements had to endure great harm and suffering. They knocked on many doors, but this door was not opened to them. It was the door of the M.S. Warsaw, it was the door of politicians of the Civic Platform who were not willing to listen and see if it really happened in the Polish capital that the inhabitants were left to themselves that the media were being cut off, that people were suffering, asking for help, because they were losing their roof over their heads. You haven't done anything since 2005. At the same time, we learned after 2015 that there was something else besides these injuries: around Warsaw City Hall, as President Gronkiewicz-Waltz herself said, there was a criminal group. It was a criminal group of people who were absolutely earning out of Warsaw, people who were pulling millions out of the money of Warsaw taxpayers who were wrongfully taking advantage of Warsaw's most valuable properties. A review committee was set up, which brought it to light, presented the face of this great affair, but also gave the floor to those who had been ignored for years. Thanks to the High House, in the previous parliamentary term, it was possible to adopt a law on the basis of which these losses from the Commission's recovery should be corrected in the form of redress. Unfortunately, politicians of the Civic Platform consistently refuse to recognise these harms. 250 people, who should receive the amount of PLN 8 million, must today judge with the president of their own city. The authorities of Warsaw drag their residents before the courts. For what? In the name of not hitting the chest in a political dispute and not saying that, however, this formation, which is in the middle of the room here, has made mistakes, numerous omissions, which have resulted in the suffering of these people. The bill, on which we are proceeding, will guarantee that these injuries will eventually be compensated - that is the basic thing that this law is implementing - and will secure other people who live in buildings covered by claims and who are afraid for a roof over their head, because there were announcements that in the near future Warsaw will begin to return buildings in nature. Therefore, this law is very much needed for Warsaw and for those who suffered from reprivatization. On the other hand, part of the discussion was moved to a general problem and concerned a large reprivatisation law. Ladies and gentlemen, I was born in 1989 when the transformations in Poland began. For 30 years, the problem of reprivatization has not been solved. This proposal, which is now in the Sejm, is therefore another step forward. We see that, unfortunately, our country has not dealt with property issues. It is necessary to take further steps, such as this, to protect individual groups of people who may be affected by this legal situation. This is the case with the inhabitants of Warsaw, which is why this project is being processed, which is why this project, I hope, will gain the recognition of the High House. However, of course, the discussion is not closed. And I hope that the voices that will appear will not only be a beat of political foam, as in some speeches, but will be constructive proposals, which during debates, e.g. from the mouth of the representatives of the Left, the subject of this law appeared. Today, however, we solve the problem of thousands of Warsawers who are afraid for a roof over their heads, hundreds of people who Rafał Trzaskowski and Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz are dragging around Warsaw courts, having really low levels of priorities for their suffering. Therefore, the matter should be dealt with by Parliament and by the government, and these people should finally be able to forget these harms and say that the Polish state has done these harms. [[Applause]] What a loser he's lost.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u262	The applicant's representative, Mr Paweł Lisiecki, will speak. Are you Mr Lisiecki? I'm here, I'm here. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are many different kinds of declarations and statements here, but some things need to be straightened out. This project is not a reprivatization act, so you will be aware of it. This is not a law aimed at returning real estate, but it aims to ensure that certain rights of people living in these buildings are guaranteed. Bierut's decree, which was introduced in 1945, actually took away property rights, and in a bandit way, while introducing certain possibilities such as the possibility of paying compensation, giving other replacement property. The Communists themselves refused to abide by these laws. Today, in those buildings that were taken under Bierut's decree, there are people who signed lease agreements with M.S. Warsaw. It must be made clear that this situation is both a problem for tenants and rightful owners. On the one hand, for tenants, when it comes to the high rent and on the other hand for owners, because often the rent income does not actually allow the loss to be repaired or it does not allow such buildings to be brought to a state that would allow them to be used. And this wedge between the problems of tenants and the problems of owners should, of course, resolve the state authorities, because the state authorities in some way are the heirs of this problem from the period of the Polish People's Republic. Today, there is often a situation where claims are being disposed of by legitimate owners to the people of the reprivatization mafia, the merchants of claims who acquire these claims from those owners for a fraction of the value. Indeed, it would be good for the State to also pay compensation to these rightful owners. However, the situation at the moment in Warsaw's capital city is that in these returned properties there were about 40,000. people who signed lease agreements with the capital city of Warsaw, with representatives of public authority. Meanwhile, they were returned with these premises, and their contracts were terminated by people who took over the tenements. In these cases, there was often no real legal basis. It is not true, however, that these properties in Warsaw were only received by thieves, because it must be clearly said that in about 80% of these returns decisions were directed to the rightful owners. On the other hand, we estimate that about 20% These were buildings taken over by the reprivatization mob, claims dealers, house-cleaners who later did what they did. The bill has two essential things to do. One is that the compensation to be paid by Warsaw's capital city is to be transferred to the state budget. The money that in Warsaw's capital city was paid for this purpose, actually taken from thieves and reprivatization mobs. The second point is to bring the property back to a situation where it would not be possible until the capital city of Warsaw really took the last tenants from the building. It's de facto about making sure that you don't return the property with the tenants. As a representative of the applicants, I would like to make a few more amendments to this proposal in order to put some things in order. And here, Marshal, I make these corrections on your hands. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u264	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this draft law to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 19 hrs. 16 min 23]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we'll start by checking the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to check the quorum. You're welcome. Thank you. 417 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. Formal proposal, Mr Michael Szczerba, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u265	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request to interrupt the sitting and extend the agenda to include a point involving the presentation by the President of the Supreme Audit Board of information on the situation in the Supreme Audit Chamber in connection with the notification of suspicion of a crime [[Applause]] lodged by the President of NIK and a request for the appeal of the Vice-President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. High Izbo! NIK controls the activities of government administrations, controls the activities of NBP and state-owned legal entities in terms of legality, economy, purpose and reliability. The leadership of the Supreme Board of Control must be like Caesar's wife, except for all suspicions. Ladies and gentlemen! The media reports that Vice President NIK has exceeded his clearance. Which media? The media reports that they tried to intimidate controllers and exert illegal pressure on the content of the ad hoc control report on humanitarian aid implemented by the PiS government. This is an outrageous situation. I'm applying for a recess and to allow President NIK... Thank you, sir. ...to present information on this subject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u266	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal, you know that very well. This is not on the agenda, Mr Sejm. But it should be. So... You will respond, Marshal. I'm referring to you, sir. I am telling you that the proposal is informal because it does not concern the agenda of the sitting of the Sejm which has been adopted, Mr. Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Chemical Substances Act and their mixtures and certain other laws, - EU type-approval systems and market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. The reports are prints 478 and 472. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95f of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the examination of these reports. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, - about the Polish Tourist Bone, - amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and certain other laws. The reports are prints 476, 477 and 473. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on Chemical Substances and their mixtures and certain other laws (Prints Nos 446 and 478). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting yesterday, the Health Commission bowed to the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Chemical Substances Act and its mixtures and some other laws, print No 446. The Health Committee, after considering this resolution, asks the Sejm to reject both amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u268	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 1 The Senate proposes to give a different wording to point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 230 - for, 216 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 14 The Senate proposes to replace the words "on the basis of the existing provisions" within the limits laid down in Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, Article Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 15 and Article 15 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 231 - for, 219 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Chemical Substances and their mixtures and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law on EU type-approval systems and the market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery (prints Nos 443 and 472). I ask Mr Caesar Grabarczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee yesterday, the committee considered two amendments tabled to the EU type-approval system law and the market surveillance of internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery. The Commission recommends that the High House adopt both amendments. We should vote on the amendments together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u270	Thank you, sir. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 The Senate proposes an editorial and legislative amendment. Amendment 2 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1 and 2 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 3 for, 443 against, no one stopped. In the absence of an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm accepted the amendments. At this end, we have concluded the Senate resolution on the EU type-approval system law and the market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Committee on the Investigation of Crimes against the National Polish People (prints no. 450 and 476). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish National. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after having considered this resolution at its meeting on 14 July 2020, asks that the High Sejm adopt the Senate amendments set out in points 1 and 2. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u272	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the 1st Amendment, the Senate proposes among others. amendment of the reference in Article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1b of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 3 was for, against - 445, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. The 2nd Law amending the Senate proposes to amend the transitional provision. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 47 for, against - 400, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we concluded the examination of the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance - the Commission for the Prosecution of Crime against the Polish Nationals. Formal proposal, Mr Marek Owa. Please. I hope that this will be a formal proposal on the agenda for this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to Art. Paragraph 184. I would like to request a break from the point on which the travel voucher is concerned so that Members and Members of the PiS can familiarize themselves with the very important amendments of the Senate. In particular, I recommend voting no. 3 in which we will vote on the addition to all pensioners of PLN 500 so that they can also benefit from the tourist voucher. [[Applause]] So you don't forget about pensioners and pensioners. So you don't focus on them only in the election campaign, but you remember them three days after the election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u274	Thank you, sir. Our fellow Members may not need a break, but since there is a formal request for a break, we will vote on this proposal. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 202 - for, 246 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Social Policy and the Family on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone (prints Nos 449 and 477). I ask Mrs Teresa Wargock to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, contained in print No 477, on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone, print No 449. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 7 July 2020, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. The Commission considered the Senate resolution at its meeting on 14 July. The Senate submitted 65 amendments to the Polish Tourist Bone Act, with 36 amendments being legislative and editorial. High Izbo! The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the resolution at its meeting on 14 July, recommends that the High House adopt 37 amendments and that the 27 amendments be rejected. High Izbo! The Act on the Polish Tourist Bona submitted by President Andrzej Duda to the Marshal's staff is intended to achieve two very important socio-economic goals. Referral to Polish families raising children additional financial support in the amount of PLN 500 and additional bonus in the amount of PLN 500 per... Madame, please focus on the report. ...a child with disabilities is a huge support... We're in the middle of another reading. Thank you very much for the report, Madam President. Thank you very much, Member. Thank you. I understand that all your Members are... What's for the seniors? Thank you very much, Member. Thank you very much. Thank you for the cooperation of the members of the Social Policy Committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u276	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. The 1st Senate proposes an editorial change. Amendments 19, 21 to 23, 38., 40 to 43, 46, 53 to 55 and 57 to 60 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 19, 21st to 23rd, 38th, 40th to 43rd, 46th, 53rd to 55th and 57th to 60th, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. No one was in favor, 450 against, one holding back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the second amendment to the article. 2 The Senate proposes in point 3 inter alia. after the words "public benefit organisation', add the words "and tourist service' referred to in Article. Paragraph 4 (1) of that Law. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 230 for, 221 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 2 The Senate proposes to add point 5a. Amendments 4, 8, 14, 17, 33, 36, 61 and 62 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3, 4, 8, 14, 17, 33, 36, 61 and 62, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 239 - for, 203 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 3 The Senate proposes in paragraph 3. 1 delete the words generated in the electronic system referred to in Article. 27. Amendments 12, 18, 20, 31, 44, 47, 51 and 63 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 5, 12, 18, 20, 31, 44, 47, 51 and 63, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 234 - for, 210 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 6th amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes in paragraph 4. 1 in point 1 in point (a) and, after the publication address of the Act, add the words "hereinafter referred to as "educational certificate'. Amendments 7, 9, 10, 13, 16, 34, 35, 39 and 48 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 6, 7, 9, 10, 13, 16, 34, 35, 39 and 48 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 2 for, 431 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 11th amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes among others. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 add points 3 and 4. Amendments 15, 32, 37., 45 and 49. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 11, 15, 32, 37, 45 and 49 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 1 for, 438 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 24th amendment to the article. 8 The Senate proposes in paragraph 8. 2 in point 7 after the words "bank account', add the words "or the account in the cooperative credit and savings bank'. Amendment 26 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 24 and 26 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 1 for, against -436, 10 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 25th amendment to the article. 8 The Senate proposes in paragraph 8. 5 delete the words 'in particular'. Amendments 29, 50 and 56 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against amendments 25, 29, 50 and 56, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 - for, 209 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 27th amendment to Article. The 12th Senate proposes the words "Article." Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Points 1 and 5 and 7 are replaced by the following: Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Points 1 and 5, 7 and 10 thereof. Amendment 28 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 27 and 28 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 232 - for, 209 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. In the 30th amendment, the Senate proposes to delete Article. 17 and Article 17 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 - for, 208 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 52nd amendment to the article. 32 The Senate proposes in its paragraph. 2 words.1% replace by "0.5%" by "0.5%" the amounts. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 52nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 278 - for, 168 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 64th Amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 47a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 64th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 232 - for, 213 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 65th amendment, the Senate proposes to add an article. 47b. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 65th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Three for, against - 440, four stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Polish Tourist Bone Act. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Senate Resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and certain other laws (Prints Nos 445 and 473). I ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u277	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure, print No 473, on the Senate's resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws, print No 445. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 19 June 2020 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. The committees yesterday considered this resolution and asked the High Sejm to reject the Senate's amendments set out in paragraphs 2, 3 and 4, while in points 1, 5, 6 and 7 - adopt. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u278	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. Amendments 1 to 3. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 containing amendments to the Law on the Principles of Development Policy. In the first amendment to Article. Article 6 (6) (a) The Senate proposes the codification of terminology. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. No one was for, 443 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 2, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. 14ra paragraph. Point 1 (2) of the Amending Act. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 231 - for, 209 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 14rb of the amended law The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph 14. 6. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 240 for, 208 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 4, the Senate proposes to delete points 4 and 5 in Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1c Act on Local Government of the voivodship. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 232-- for, 215-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the 5th amendment to the article. 8 The Senate proposes to add points 14 and 15. Amendment 7 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 5 and 7, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. One was for, 449 against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 6th amendment to the article. 22 The Senate proposes to amend the reference to this provision. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 1 for, 449 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Appointment of 3 members of the State Commission to clarify cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 (prints Nos 416 and 428). According to Art. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 point 1 of the Act of 30 August 2019 on the State Commission for the Clarification of Cases of Action Against Sexual Freedom and Vice-Presidentship against a minor under 15 years of age The Sejm shall appoint 3 members of the committee. The list of candidates for committee members was served to the ladies and gentlemen in print No 416. I ask that Mrs Anna Milczanowska speak in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the candidates for the members of the committee for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 who have been recommended by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. These are: Ms Karolina Bućko, Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Mr Adam Czarnecki, Mrs Hanna Elżanowska, Mr Marek Konopczyński, Mrs Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska, Mr Andrzej Nomarski, Mr Bartłomiej Tkacz, Mr Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u280	Thank you, Member. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on the applications submitted? No one's checking in. No, they are. In that case, I propose that in the discussion on this point... Your marshal, there's been a call. Don't shout, sir, because I can hear you. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Sławomir Piechot, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In order to achieve the objectives of the committee, it requires people with the right competences resulting from their knowledge and life experience, people who are sensitive, courageous and engaged. The composition of this committee will depend on its actual or fictitious, apparent character. The ability of the committee to break the helplessness and powerlessness of the state in the fight against pedophilia will depend on specific people who undertake this extremely difficult task and enormous responsibility. Professor will be such a member of the committee. Marek Konopczyński - ordinary professor, expert in social pathology, academic teacher, author of numerous analyses and studies from this area of social affairs, involved in many social activities and initiatives, graduate of the Jagiellonian, Warsaw and Adam Mickiewicz Universities in Poznań. Currently Prof. Marek Konopczyński heads a cathedral of special pedagogy at the Białystok University. Earlier he was among others. Rector of the Warsaw School of Social Sciences and the Warsaw School of Higher Education Bogdan Janski. He also collaborated with the Ignatianum Academy of Jesuit Fathers in Krakow. He is the editor-in-chief of the "Resociation Poland" periodical and Deputy Chairman of the Scientific Council of the monthly "Police 997" magazine. He's the founder of a Pedagogy Foundation that works with victims and perpetrators of crimes. Professor Konopczyński thinks pedophilia is like cancer. It needs to be properly diagnosed to treat effectively. If there is no proper diagnosis and proper treatment, the effects may be catastrophic, as evidenced by the fate of the victims. Prof. Marek Konopczyński emphasizes that the fight against this severe social disease requires extensive, constant and intensive cooperation, a broad and strong coalition is needed to defend the harmed and threatened with harm to children. Especially is the need for carefully thought out and widely accepted prevention and education, aimed primarily at children and their parents or carers. Therefore, with deep conviction we report Professor Marek Konopczyński as a member of the Committee on Combating Sexual Abuse against Children. The assessment of Professor Konopczyński's candidacy is clearly demonstrated by the result of the vote at the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 19 June 2020, where Prof. Marek Konopczyński obtained the most because 21 votes in favour and no one voted against. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u282	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u283	God bless you! It is a rare opportunity for members of the Confederation not only to support candidacy by others, but also to have a modest share in applying to this body, which is of course some form of substitution, symptomatic treatment. This is contrary to appearances that you are trying to create from the left and from the law, building a higher floor of hypocrisy in our public life, because you want to - and rightly - track, pursue and, I hope, finely punish... Tell the president that. ...not, sir, to educate sex offenders against minors. After all, it is only a particularly disgusting case, but on a wider background, it is a wider phenomenon. You are from the left and from the right to submit to political correctness. In your language, which you are using for the revolutionary invasion of deviance and the promotion of deviance in our public life, and that is what you are unable to oppose. You send the police, I turn to the current system of power, to harass, beat and intimidate people who, for example. In Rzeszów last year they tried to build a dam of rainbow revolution, parade of deviants and deviants. Culture a bit! Ha, ha, ha! And you sent the police on them. I hope to see at least one righteous Fr. Tadeusz Isakowicz-Zaleski will lead to a real recovery of the state of the Republic, so that deviants and provosts of deviants will be packed into detention, not those who are trying to counter this revolutionary invasion. Don't you dare use this committee to which, yes, we delegate our representative, but we won't have a majority there, don't you dare use this tool to fight arbitraryly, selectively, culprits. If you want to look for the lavender mafia even in the Polish Episcopate, please look for it also in your parliamentary clubs, search for the lavender mafia (the bell) in the highest authorities of the Republic of Poland, on the boards of companies of the State Treasury, etc. Thank you very much, sir. In the future, I would advise you to pay attention to your words, sir. What do you advise me, Marshal? What does your marshal advise me? I'm listening. Mr President, thank you, time is up, thank you very much. I didn't hear what your marshal was telling me. Watch your mouth. Please take the floor of Mr Jarosław Sachaika. Sending deviants to jail is... I didn't hear you, Marshal, what your advice is to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u284	I do not advise you, sir, thank you. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the coalition of Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 and the Association of the Polish Confederation, I have the honour to present the candidacy of Fr. Tadeusz Isakowicz-Zaleski as a candidate for a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. Fr. Tadeusz Isakowicz-Zaleski testified with his life that two things are important to him: the welfare of children and the issue of the purification and transparency of the Church. He is the most expressive clergyman who openly speaks and writes about the conspiracy of silence about pedophilia in the Church. Of all candidates, he knows the ecclesiastical environment best and openly tells us where pathology is and how it can be addressed. During his studies as a participant in the international movement of Faith and Light, he founded a community of people with intellectual disabilities and their parents and guardians in Krakow and Chrzanów. In 1987 he co-founded the National Foundation. Albert's brother and handicapped shelters in Radwanowice. From 1989 to today he is the President of this work. The Foundation operates 35 institutions for 1200 people throughout the country. Since 2000, he has been a co-founder and president of the Educational Integration Society, which runs a school and an integration kindergarten. It should also be stressed that Fr. Isakowicza-Zaleski as a oppositionist during the period of the Polish People's Republic was conducted operational activities by the then secret services. These were not mere surveillance activities, but provocations were taking place against him. Fr. Tadeusz Isakowicz-Zaleski was also the victim of a beating by the so-called. independent perpetrators. Unknown perpetrators. However, these actions did not break his uncompromising attitude. He wrote a 592-page book about security on the example of the Archdiocese of Krakow. Among the many books written by the priest, one should mention the book "The Bible's Word. " I only care about the truth, discussing the topics of unfinished illustration in the Polish Church, homosexuality among parts of the clergy, the involvement of political pastors or genocide on the Eastern Ends. In June of this year another book was published, under the much-speaking title of the Church to be transparent. High Izbo! The acquisition of a parliamentary majority for this candidacy will be a test of how serious parliamentarians, politicians take paedophilia and whether there will be another fear committee which will be responsible for the political exploitation of children's harm. If Fr. Isakowicz-Zaleski will be on this committee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] We have a guarantee that her work will not just be a propaganda media play... Thank you, sir. ...and will lead to a quick and uncompromising cleansing of Poland from pedophilia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u286	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u287	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The National Commission for the Clarification of Actions Against Sexual Freedom and Vice against a minor under the age of 15 is a very important body whose idea of action will be to care for the welfare of the child, as well as to explain the cases of such shameful and vile actions. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recommends two candidates for the state committee. These candidates are Dr. Hanna Elżanowska and Mr. Andrzej Novarski. Dr Hanna Elżanowska is a psychologist, psychotherapist, sexologist, long-time employee of the Institute of Catholic Psychology at the University of Lublin, John Paul. II. He works with universities and universities in which he teaches psychology. He is a forensic expert in matters involving children and young people, a specialist in helping children sexually abused. She graduated from the 5-year course of psychotherapy and family therapy organized by the Department of Family Therapies Department of Collegium Medicum Psychiatry at the Jagiellonian University certified by the Polish Psychiatric Society. For many years she has been involved in psychological diagnosis, counseling, individual psychotherapy and family therapy. He works in a psychology and pedagogical clinic in Warsaw, where he deals with psychological diagnosis of children. Counselor Andrzej Nowarski is a legal adviser with 15 years of professional experience. He graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration of the Jagiellonian University and LL studies. M. at Queen Mary University in London. He is also a graduate of postgraduate studies at the Faculty of Law and Administration of the University of Warsaw. He was listed as legal advisors led by the District Chamber of Legal Counsels in Warsaw. Andrzej Nowarski gained professional experience in renowned law firms in Cracow and Warsaw. He dealt with a wide range of cases from many areas of law. He held supervisory functions in the supervisory bodies of the capital companies. Since 2014, he has provided legal advice services within the framework of individual counseling practice. Since 2018, he has been working with the Ministry of Culture. Both the education and professional experience of Dr. Hanna Elżanowska and your patron saint Novarski provide assurance that they are good candidates for members of the State Commission for explaining cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u288	Thank you, Member. And Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual freedom and vice against a minor under 15 is to deal with all crimes, not only those committed by the Church, although it was the Church that systematically protected the perpetrators, did not settle this and does not even want to pay compensation to victims. The Commission, commonly referred to as the pedophilia committee, received a huge budget, which is PLN 12 million. It will employ nearly 50 people, but its powers are very modest. He will not grant compensation, he will enter the perpetrator in a special register, which raises doubts, because the register can be found without a judicial judgment, and the blame will be decided by the members of the committee. I want seven people on the committee. Originally, they were only supposed to be doctors, psychologists, lawyers, but after the change to the COVID Act, it is enough for example. Award received from the President. Ten people - so much was the list presented to us in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. It's about the membership candidates and the committee member. These candidates are particularly distinguished by the candidate put forward by the parliamentary club of the Left. He's the only one... She's a candidate with the greatest experience. He has experience in dealing with paedophiles, defending the victims of paedophiles. Counselor Karolina Bućko is not only a lawyer, an active lawyer since 2005, running her own law firm, but also a person with extensive legal education. She's finished her D.A.'s application, also her bailiff's application. Counselor Bućko deals with women's affairs, provides training on family violence, violence against women. Without this candidacy, this committee will be incomplete. What's symptomatic, ten candidates, seven in the whole committee... With regard to the three members of the committee chosen by the Sejm, three candidates were originally proposed by the Law and Justice for these three seats. Despite this, we hope that not only the candidates for law and justice will be included in this committee, but also possibly the candidate proposed by the Attorney General. We hope that the candidates submitted by other parliamentary clubs, including the candidate of the Left, will also be taken into account. We hope that this is not another way of abusing the ruling party and that this composition will be objective, substantive and factual. The warranty of this committee will probably be our candidate, Karolina Bućko's patron. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u290	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. The appointment of the members of the committee by the Sejm shall take place in accordance with the following rules. The Sejm shall appoint the members of the committee by a majority of 3/5 votes in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. The vote shall be held separately for each of the three vocations. If, in the first vote, the candidate has not received a majority of 3/5 votes, the vote shall be re-elected and the Sejm shall be appointed by simple majority. I will vote in alphabetical order. The acquisition of a majority of 3/5 votes by one of the candidates will mean the completion of the procedure for the appointment of the first member of the committee. The remaining candidates will be put to the vote in the procedure for the appointment of another member of the committee. I would remind you that applications have been submitted: - Ms Karolina Bucko, tabled by a group of members of the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left (Together, Democratic Left Alliance, Spring Robert Biedron), - Mrs Barbara Chrobak, referred to by the National Prosecutor's Council at the Attorney General, - Mr. Adam Czarnecki, reported by the Association, You can promote psychoprofiling and development of children and young people based in Piastów, - Ms Hanna Elżanowska, tabled by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, - Mr Mark Konopoczyński, tabled by the Group of Members of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens, - Ms Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska, submitted by the General Medical Chamber, - Mr Andrzej Novarski, tabled by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, - Mr Bartłomiej Tkacz, submitted by the National Council of Legal Counsels, - Mr Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski, submitted by a group of Members of the Parliamentary Club coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 and the Association of the Polish Confederation. In addition, I inform you that Mr Radosław Krajewski, tabled by Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, withdrew his consent to be a member of the committee. We are voting on the appointment of the first member of the committee. We proceed with the vote on Ms. Karolina Bućko's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Ms Karolina Bućko as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. The majority of 3/5 is 270 votes. It was 178 against 244, with 28. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Karolina Bucko as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on Mrs Barbara Chrobak's candidacy. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of calling Mrs Barbara Chrobak to be a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. The majority of 3/5 is 267 votes. For - 230, against -210, 5 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mrs Barbara Chrobak as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr. Adam Czarnecki's candidacy. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Most of it's a For - 29, against - 410, holding off on 11. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Hanna Elżanowska's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Ms Hanna Elżanowska as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Most of it's a For - 234, 206 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Hanna Elżanowska as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Mark Konopczyński's candidacy. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Mark Konopczyński as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Most 3/5 votes, 270. For - 182, against - 226, 42 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Marek Konopczyński as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on Ms Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska's candidacy. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mrs Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska as a member of the State Commission for explaining cases of actions against sexual freedom and decency towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Marshal, who invented this voting system? 450 Members voted. Most 3/5 votes, 270. For - 32, 406 - against, the 12. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Andrzej Nowarski's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Andrzej Nowarski as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. Most 3/5 votes, 271. For - 231, 218 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Andrzej Nowarski as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on Mr Bartłomiej Tkacz's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Bartłomiej Tkacz as a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Most 3/5 votes: 268. For - 129, against - 279, 39 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Bartłomiej Tkacz as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We proceed to the vote on the candidacy of Fr. Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski. I'm sorry about earlier, not priest, but it's from the speed of reading, so to speak, from the scenario. Excuse me. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Fr. Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski, a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Marshal, who invented this voting system? 440 Members voted. The majority of 3/5 votes is 264. For - 96, 333 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint the Fr. Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski as a member of the committee. Scandal! Bravo! In the absence of the required majority of votes by any of the candidates, we will proceed with a re-vote on this matter. I would remind you that in this case, the Sejm shall appoint a member of the committee by simple majority. I will vote again in alphabetical order. The receipt of a simple majority by one of the candidates will mean the completion of the procedure for the appointment of the first member of the committee. The remaining candidates will be put to the vote in the procedure for the appointment of another member of the committee. Marshal, who invented this voting system? We shall proceed to the vote on the appointment of the first member of the committee by a simple majority. We proceed with the vote on Ms. Karolina Bućko's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Ms Karolina Bućko as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 178, 243 - against, the 28. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Karolina Bucko as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We proceed with the vote on Mrs Barbara Chrobak's candidacy. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of calling Mrs Barbara Chrobak to be a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Who invented this system, Marshal? The one who supervised the president's conversation. There were 181 votes... Oh... Bravo! We have to cancel. Something's broken. Why is it taking so long today? Sorry, the results were wrong. 448 Members voted. For-- 219, against-- 212, 17 stopped. The Sejm appointed Ms Barbara Chrobak by majority as a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 and thus appointed the first member of the committee. There's no majority. There's an ordinary majority. We are voting on the appointment of a second member of the committee. I will vote in alphabetical order. The acquisition of a majority of 3/5 votes by one of the candidates will mean the completion of the procedure for the appointment of a second member of the committee. The remaining candidates will be put to the vote in the procedure for the appointment of another member of the committee. We proceed with the vote on Ms. Karolina Bućko's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Ms Karolina Bućko as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's already been done. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a legal procedure. Who's gonna make a bill like that... You didn't listen to what I read at the beginning. We have to vote like this. We have to vote like this. Can you remind me who's the author of the bill? Ladies and gentlemen, please don't force me to break procedure. This is a statutory procedure. First we voted by majority. 3/5 over each candidate - no one got it. A simple majority - we chose the first member of the committee. But we still have two vacancies left, and in the case of these two vacancies, according to the law, we repeat exactly the same procedure. And don't be outraged because this is a statutory procedure. We're voting. I'm asking you again. But the genius who wrote it just took off. Who's in favour? We are voting on Mrs. Karolina Bućko's candidacy. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. Most of it's 3/5.268. For - 174, 246 - against, 27 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Karolina Bucko as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr. Adam Czarnecki's candidacy. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. Most of it's 3/5.265. For - 29, 411 - against, the 4. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Hanna Elżanowska's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Ms Hanna Elżanowska as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Most of it's a In - 230, against - 217, 3 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Hanna Elżanowska as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Mark Konopczyński's candidacy. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Mark Konopczyński as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. The absolute majority is 3/5.265. For - 180, against - 232, 31 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Marek Konopczyński as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mrs Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska's candidacy. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mrs Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska as a member of the State Commission for explaining cases of actions against sexual freedom and decency towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 442. Most of it's 3/5.265. For - 27, 411 - against, the 4. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Andrzej Nowarski's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Andrzej Nowarski as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. Most of it's 3/5.265. For - 222, 217 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Andrzej Nowarski as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Bartholomew Tweak's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Bartłomiej Tkacz as a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 262 is the majority 3/5. For - 132, 276 - against, 31 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Bartłomiej Tkacz as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on the candidacy of Fr. Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Fr. Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski, a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 262 is the majority 3/5. For - 106, 321 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint the Fr. Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski as a member of the committee. Scandal! Twice the scandal! Shame! In the absence of the required majority of votes by all candidates, we will proceed with a re-vote on this matter. I would remind you that in this case, the Sejm shall appoint a member of the committee by simple majority. I will vote again in alphabetical order. The receipt of a simple majority by one of the candidates will mean the completion of the procedure for the appointment of a second member of the committee. The remaining candidates will be put to the vote in the procedure for the appointment of another member of the committee. We are voting on the appointment of a second member by a simple majority. We are voting on Mrs. Karolina Bućko's candidacy. Eventually, it'll pass. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Ms Karolina Bućko as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? As if such a procedure were with Mr. Gliński, he would become Prime Minister. You should've made up your mind about Bucko, and it wouldn't be funny. Three times the charm, the third time it'll pass. No, it's up to six times the charm. The vote was 448. 175 - for, 244 - against, 29 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Karolina Bucko as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr. Adam Czarnecki's candidacy. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 28 - for, 414 - against, 4 abstained. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Hanna Elżanowska's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Ms Hanna Elżanowska as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 230 - for, 214 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm appointed Ms Hanna Elżanowska by majority as a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 and thus appointed a second member of the committee. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And we're back to 3/5. We are voting on the appointment of a third member of the committee. That's what KPRM came up with. I will vote in alphabetical order. This is the sixth time we've voted today. The acquisition of a majority of 3/5 votes by one of the candidates will result in the completion of the procedure for the appointment of a third member of the committee. Dura lex, sed lex. We are voting on Mrs. Karolina Bućko's candidacy. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Mr. President, cut down on the pain. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Ms Karolina Bućko as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Formal conclusion. There are no formal proposals in the course of the vote, sir. Who's holding back? Madame, you did not see how he... voted. 443 Members voted. Most of it's 3/5.265. For - 181, 237 - against, 25 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Karolina Bucko as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr. Adam Czarnecki's candidacy. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 444. Most of it's 3/5.265. For - 28, 412 - against, 4 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Mark Konopczyński's candidacy. He's got one more chance. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Mark Konopczyński as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 441. 265 that's most of it. 3/5. For - 184, 225 - against, 32 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Marek Konopczyński as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mrs Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska's candidacy. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mrs Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska as a member of the State Commission for explaining cases of actions against sexual freedom and decency towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 268 is the majority 3/5. For - 29, 413 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Andrzej Nowarski's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Andrzej Nowarski as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 265 that's most of it. 3/5. For - 220, 219 - against, the 5. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Andrzej Nowarski as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Bartholomew Tweak's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Bartłomiej Tkacz as a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 262 is the majority 3/5. For - 130, 277 - against, 29 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Bartłomiej Tkacz as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on the candidacy of Fr. Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Fr. Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski, a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 430 Members voted. 258 is the majority 3/5. For-- 112, 307-- against, holding off on 11. The Sejm did not appoint the Fr. Tadeusz Bohdan Zaleski as a member of the committee. In the absence of the required majority of votes by all candidates, we will proceed with a re-vote on this matter. I would remind you that in this case, the Sejm shall appoint a member of the committee by simple majority. I will vote again in alphabetical order. The receipt of a simple majority by one of the candidates will mean the completion of the procedure for the appointment of a third member of the committee. We shall proceed to the vote on the appointment of the third member of the committee by a simple majority. We proceed with the vote on Ms. Karolina Bućko's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Ms Karolina Bućko as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 179 - for, 241 - against, 25 abstained. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Karolina Bucko as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. Oh, dear. We are voting on Mr. Adam Czarnecki's candidacy. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? The vote was 437. 27 - for, 406 - against, abstained 4. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Adam Czarnecki as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Mark Konopczyński's candidacy. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mr Mark Konopczyński as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 186 - for, 229 - against, 31 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Mr Marek Konopczyński as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mrs Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska's candidacy. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the appointment of Mrs Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska as a member of the State Commission for explaining cases of actions against sexual freedom and decency towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 29 - for, 410 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Teresa Barbara Matthews-Brzozowska as a member of the committee in view of not obtaining the required majority of votes. We are voting on Mr Andrzej Nowarski's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Andrzej Nowarski as a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 225 - for, 218 - against, 6 stopped. [[Applause]] The Sejm, by majority, appointed Mr Andrzej Nowarski as a member of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 and thus appointed a third member of the committee. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the procedure for the selection of three members of the committee. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 19 min. 09 hrs. 19 min 21]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of the Interior and Administration of Mariusz Kaminski (prints Nos 453 and 474). I ask the representative of the applicants of Mr Tomasz Szymanski to provide a justification for the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u291	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The time set to justify the proposal is far too short. The entire list of omissions and abuses committed by Minister Mariusz Kaminski cannot be presented to the High House and millions of Poles for 5 minutes. Ba, you can't cook hard eggs for five minutes. And that is the amount of time you give the opposition to justify a motion for a vote of distrust towards the constitutional minister. By submitting a motion for a vote of distrust, we strongly object to inappropriate performance of our duties and abuse of power and thus to non-compliance with applicable law, including the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. Why do we want Minister Mariusz Kaminski dismissed? There are many reasons, little time, so I will mention the seven sins of prime minister Mariusz Kaminski. Sin one - the involvement of the services in the absolute suppression of citizens' protests. In accordance with the Constitution, everyone is granted the freedom to organise and participate in peaceful assembly. Meanwhile, the services subordinate to Minister Kaminski were involved in the absolute suppression of citizens' protests. We remember very well the protest of entrepreneurs who expressed their opposition to the poor policies of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, and in particular as regards the lack of State aid in connection with the current epidemic of Coronavirus. We know very well that many entrepreneurs have not yet been provided with the support they expect. These people spontaneously went out on the street to save jobs so that they could continue to work honestly and earn money. How were they treated? A subordinate Minister of the Kaminski Police was involved in this. Police in which there are decent citizens, people who wear uniforms not to be used to suppress peaceful protests of citizens, but to defend the weakest and to protect their safety. In recent years, however, they have been used for completely different purposes. And here is the second sin of Minister Kaminski - the use of services for tasks to which they have not been appointed. A member of the Council of Ministers shall not conduct activities contrary to his public duties. However, due to the enormous political commitment of Mariusz Kaminski and his building of his position in the camp of authority, his subordinate services are used for tasks for which they have not been appointed. One of the best examples of this is the use of a subordinate police minister to patrol around the house of his party boss, Mr Jarosław Kaczyński. Ha, ha, ha! According to publicly available information, the President of PiS is watching 18 police officers and protecting them for over PLN 2 million a year. Mr. Kaminski... Minister Kaminski. ...Polish Police is not a party farm. The Polish Police were created to serve society, not your party. Sin three - acting without a legal basis. According to the Constitution, public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law. Meanwhile, Mariusz Kaminski undertook preparations for the election of the President of the Republic of Poland, leaving out the highest and most important state body, which is the State Election Commission. We remember very well the stubbornness of the PiS to hold the elections of the President of the Republic on 10 May. We remember about voting packages printed for 70 million PLN, about the fact that such a package was sent to one of the candidates. Minister, San Escobar's professionalism. Sin four - total lack of professionalism. Good afternoon, mister president - sounds funny, cliché, but unfortunately it is seemingly very dangerous. In accordance with the regulation of the President of the Council of Ministers, Mr Mariusz Kamiński exercises supervision and control over the activities of special services and coordinates their activities. However, the services under the Minister could not prevent the President from talking to the Russian youtuber, who presented himself as Secretary-General of the United Nations. Shame! The services that should take care of Poland's security allowed the president to talk to some Russian youuber for more than 11 minutes, who then posted a recorded conversation online. Do you have any idea what really happened, Minister? The translations that Prime Minister Boris Johnson was also recorded are weak. In the UK, the state worked. I would like to remind you that this connection has been interrupted. In Poland, the president spoke over 11 minutes of broken English. You have ridiculed the office of President of the Republic of Poland. You've ridiculed Poland. You've shown that anyone can just call the head of state and have a chat. Already today people mock that you can call the President of Poland faster than the Social Security Office or the Tax Office. Sin five, surveillance. According to the Constitution, public authorities cannot collect, collect and share information about citizens other than those necessary in a democratic state. Meanwhile, Minister Kaminski remains responsible for the highly likely operation in Poland of the Pegasus system, purchased for PLN 35 million (Dzwonek), which serves for unlimited eavesdropping of citizens. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen! I still have many, many sins and neglects that we talked about yesterday at the committee meeting. Of course, that time I mentioned at the beginning is disproportionately short to the charges that we can... Thank you, sir. ...sir, Minister, bet. Please, Your Marshal, allow me to punctuate a legitimate motion. The request made by me by the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Kaminski is an attempt to halt the government's efforts to deepen the democratic crisis in Poland. It is also an attempt to defend human rights, which are arrogantly violated by the services of Minister Kaminski... Finish the punch line, sir. ...and an action to stop the continued use of services subordinate to the Home Minister for purposes for which they have not been appointed. Thank you, sir. That's enough punch line. Dear Marshal! The Civic Coalition thus requests and urges Members to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u292	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present the opinion of the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, which discussed this proposal yesterday, explicitly voted against the proposal by the applicants and recommended that the proposal be rejected so that the Minister of Home Affairs is to be assessed negatively in this respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u294	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1a The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm can only be heard by Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera will be the first to speak with the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u295	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The request, which was made by a citizen's club, I apologise, the Coalition Club, is the conclusion in which of several arguments, two formal applications actually relate only and exclusively to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. The rest - discussed in February, when there was a first request to dismiss the Minister, but as a coordinator of the special services - is not really discussed in this proposal because it does not concern the minister whom you called. This is the first formal remark, but in my opinion it is very important, because it signifies that this proposal is not a literal legal proposal, it is simply a political proposal which is to make some kind of entourage, which says that if there is a request for cancellation of a minister, then competence comes from someone else. Of course, it's the same person, but it's different. Second thing. There are literally two allegations against the Minister in this proposal. The first proposal assumes inadequate behaviour, police activities, and the second conclusion, which is included in this, is that the Prime Minister of the Polish Government gave the order to the Minister. These really are two very interesting constructions that can serve to make this proposal formal legal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is laughter. In the courtroom, it's all there is to comment on. And what are the other charges, ladies and gentlemen? That is, I quote: as the media say, there is a belief in the public opinion, probably, that is questionable, because of low political motives. Well, really, it's just the merhology itself, the deep merhology is contained in this proposal. No specifics, just a general entourage to say something's going on. The second time is the word "entourage." Very difficult words. There are also far-reaching insinuations in the proposal that speak about the use of functions or lack of action by the Minister in order to safeguard Polish interests. Let me say this, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the club: we are surprised because here we have a duality of conduct. On the one hand, applicants say: the minister should act in such a way that nothing will happen in the country without his consent, and on the other hand the conclusions are drawn in such a way that the minister actually uses everything he has to suppress freedom in Poland. It's either one or the other. Either it is that the Minister is in fact so great that everything happens, so nothing happens without his consent, or in fact there is a rule of law that works formally and normally and is the consequence of these actions. And you're accusing the state of saying that something is happening before, not after -- that's inconsistencies. 72 Members have signed this proposal, which is really very small, which is of no greater importance in the area of rhetoric, in addition to the importance for the policy to which you have the right, of course, no one is questioning that. But if we're talking about a serious country, it should be against such a serious minister, and they're not at all there. Minister Mariusz Kaminski, in the opinion of our club, performs his function very well, he is a very good minister, he coordinates the work of the committees and other services that are subordinate to him as Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Absolutely deserves full support and even more. We understand that the Minister can be disliked, we understand that one can have respect for him, which is respect, as some say, for example. With letters like that or dots, there's something like that. It's such a creative, very artistic approach. But the basic issue, ma'am, which concerns the seriousness of this proposal, is probably included in the quote and let me read it at the end. Applicants: In addition, the resignation of Minister Mariusz Kaminski could significantly help to reduce the possibility of corruption in the state administration. This is really the depth of this conclusion if someone reads this conclusion carefully. Just before Mr Mariusz Kaminski, now Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, a man who is a symbol of the fight against corruption, I think it is simply, to say the least, a misunderstanding. Ha, ha, ha! But you can say this: what is the conclusion, this is how the opposition works, this is the strength of this opposition. This big cannon you've made is exactly included in this proposal, with none. Masks and ventilators. That is why, of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice [[♪ The bell ♪]] will be fully against this proposal and fully supports Minister Mariusz Kaminski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u296	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Yes, we will vote in favour of dismissing the Minister, really for three reasons. First of all, the Minister used the state police under the COVID laws against the law and the constitution. Well, the provisions of the Police Act, which weren't wide open to administrative law, didn't allow you to release police officers and order them to violate civil rights and freedoms. [[Applause]] other than by means of the Emergency Act. Well, the truth is that the police are used to chase people on their bikes, to chase people who go out for a walk with the disabled, that's your responsibility, not the cops, you. You broke the bill, you have no right to use the police on the basis of laws that are flawed in terms of civil rights and obligations. And this charge is a very serious charge. Second charge, we just heard it. Well, you're spoken of, and you seem to think of yourself as a sheriff in the fight against corruption. In these weeks, the sheriff's myth in the fight against corruption fell. On June 30, the contract for the supply of ventilators expired. Has 160 million returned to the Polish state or not? Can you still, as the wife of your friend's ski instructor in the government, start a company one day and get 5 million from the state on the other day, from taxpayers, from us to the company's account? Suddenly it turns out that nothing can be done about this, that the police and police are idle. I know how you defend yourself. You defend yourself in such a way that these are servants, and you answer here as Minister. I'd like to say one thing, Minister. You've got a powerful criminal pawn under you. Well, if a junior aspirant from this vertical got the material from this case, in two days they'd be under arrest, they'd be busy, everything would be perfect, except he didn't get it. As this contrasts with the extraordinary effectiveness of your subordinate officers, when, for example, You have to go after the Senate marshal because he's your political opponent. You are helpless against this swamp that is taking place in your government, and at the same time you are extremely efficient and cruel towards political opponents. And that's the truth about you as a sheriff fighting corruption. The last case, in my opinion, is extremely incriminating, Minister. In recent days, on the days of the election campaign, you have traded the security of Poland, [[Applause]] You've been dealing in rude political deals. What else is the RCB message sent by SMS contrary to the explicit provisions of the Act - art. 21a point 1 says that such messages are sent only in a situation of danger, and you took part in the election campaign of Andrzej Duda, you played turnout, which was beneficial for this candidate. Minister, is this how you pay your debts to the President for the pardon that allowed you to be a minister? [[Applause]] Finally, I would like to say one more thing. It's coming to an end. You're very happy to hide behind the cops and say that attacking you is an attack on hard-working cops. Minister, the police are chasing criminals, saving people, helping in crisis situations - she did it before you became Minister, doing it when you are Minister and will do it long, long after you are no longer Minister. This has nothing to do with insulting the police. Don't hide cowardly behind police uniforms, because you're not one of them. You are their political overseer and you are fully responsible for what is happening in it. There's one excuse you could hear from the Minister. The justification is this: just as the police are a blind sword in your hands, so the Lord is a blind sword in the hands of Jarosław Kaczyński. You're creating a police state, a state of emergency without emergency laws. This is the country that Jarosław Kaczyński designed for all of us, and you are his contractor. Hence the violation of the law, hence the violation of the constitution, hence the actions of the police. Besides, you've been very well scored by the ombudsman. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now is your chance to say: Yes, I am a blind sword in the hands of Jarosław Kaczyński, whom I really want to introduce... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u298	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Rozenek, on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Dear Minister, there is no separation between the role of Minister of the Interior and the coordinator of the Special Services. You can't, because both functions are performed by one person, specifically you. That's where you need to be right now, like that famous frog from a certain anecdote, and beautiful and smart. There's no other way, Minister. Let's start with the other function. Comics from Russia recorded and ridiculed the President of Poland. Where were the servants? Minister, there is only one honorable way out of this situation - resignation. I wanted to ask, how was the contractor checked for a ventilator transaction that cost the state budget almost 200 million? Did you know this is an arms dealer with a shady past? Did any service under you actually give the Minister of Health the green light for this transaction? To be honest, I don't want to believe it. I don't believe it. Have the courage to tell us how it really was, that no one asked, because if it were not, it is a huge disgrace of Polish services. Masks without certificates bought from a ski instructor, scallops bought from an oscypist dealer. Dear Minister, the role of special servants is particularly important when it is allowed to shop outside the limits of the Public Procurement Law because of the epidemic. Can you say with full responsibility that everything that had to be done has been done in this case? Have your services shown professionalism and vigilance, or have they turned a blind eye to the drug deals that were done at the Ministry of Health? Raisings for the police - very good that they happened. I praise the Minister here. The announced additions for police officers to remain in service despite the acquisition of pension rights, also glorious, I support, because experienced police officers are very much needed in the service, we all know that. Couldn't you have thought of that much earlier? Was there a need for blind cleansing under the motto: Police holiday without militia? You got rid of some of the great professionals back then. Many of them could continue to serve the public and pass on their experience to younger colleagues. However, they were pushed out of the police force only because they had an episode in Militia before 1990, most often a short-term episode, several months. Yes, Minister Zieliński. Very good. Very good. You're guarding the mailbox on the CEO's fence instead of keeping ordinary citizens safe. Unfortunately, a wave of crime is growing. There are more and more home invasions, cars are being stolen more and more. And the police? The police must fight against citizens who protest instead of fighting criminals. The order to maintain social distance was a pretext for violent police intervention. At the same time, religious and political assemblies were held, which the police were not interested at all. Where is equality before the law? During the protest under the seat of the Triple, police officers handed out tickets for holding cards with passwords: 50 PLN for the password "Murem za Bear," but already a hundred dollars for the password "Free media." Minister, what kind of taxi driver is this? Ha, ha, ha! It occurred that policemen on anti-government protest days went on vacation because they didn't want to confront the citizens, didn't want to participate. The police have shown more sense than the politicians who govern them, because the police are state-owned, not Mr.Kamiński or even Mr.Kaczyński. And finally, it's very painful for me. You're the Home Secretary. It's up to you to take advantage of the article. 8a Act on the retirement provision of officers. But I haven't heard you take advantage of this article and restore anybody's stolen pension. You have not exercised this right in the case of people as well deserved as Grażyna Biskupska, Piotr Wróbel or the gene. Gromosław Czempinski. You haven't even exercised your right to invalids, widows, and orphans from the officers. For this reason, the Pension and Retirement Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs directs to others information on the collection of a significant part of the pension. This time, the shameful Repressive Act is used against pensioners from the passport vertical and the communication vertical of the MMA. Against ubekom! I know you're going to lower your pensions to the next social groups. This is political revenge based on collective responsibility, which is not known in democratic systems, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But it is often used in dictatorships. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. The Left Club will, of course, support the motion for a vote of distrust towards Minister Mariusz Kaminski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u300	Thank you. Mr Marek Biernacki, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u301	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Today's debate, in which I have the honour to represent the Polish Parliamentary Association - PSL - Kukiz15, concerns the expression of a vote of distrust towards the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and Administration of Mariusz Kaminski, and thus provides an excellent opportunity for discussion, evaluation of the preparation and response of the Polish state to the crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. We know well that the Polish government was surprised by the pandemic. The Polish government was not prepared for the outbreak of a pandemic, while in the very sphere of crisis management the actions were full of chaos, without a wider plan. Sorry, one plan was to win the presidential election. And we remember that the Ministry of Internal Affairs is responsible for crisis management in the government. High Izbo! In the March Acts, the famous COVID Acts, the government has introduced changes in the crisis management system, creating a de facto alternative crisis management system, undermining the current state of law, which has functioned well. This system, which has been in force since March, has temporarily modified or duplicated the existing system, introducing a new system that operates only on the line of government administration, i.e. the President of the Council of Ministers, the competent minister or chief health inspector and voivodeship. Looking at the government's actions, it can be seen that a quasi-informal premiere anti-crisis centre consisting of the Centre for Strategic Analysis - CAS and the Department for Defence Preparation of the Administration of the President of the Council of Ministers was organized in KPRM. It was the CAS, not the RCB, that issued a daily report on the epidemic situation. In general, the RCB went missing during the crisis and management of the crisis related to the coronavirus. All of a sudden, it only happened once. The RCB appeared at the time of the election, announcing a famous alert. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Now I'm gonna focus on the fire department. Just a little bit, because we don't have time. I'd like to quote a trade union letter to the chief. Trade unions operating in the PSP, with a view to the safety of firefighters, applied on 11 March to the chief of command, and I quote: to develop or present the procedures for firefighters in place when carrying out activities related to the virus. It was also recommended that until all of these issues have been established and developed, as well as the necessary individual protective measures and that officers should be informed of the procedures for dealing with the SARS-CoV-2 virus, they should be limited to the necessary measures. By 11 March, the Chief Chief did not issue guidelines for the regulation. The firemen weren't prepared at all. The same applies to TSOs. Antoni Podolski wrote on this subject in a great work on the report: viral crisis management by the Institute of Bronisław Komorowski. Moreover, the situation with regard to civil protection, civil protection of the country is similar. Her head, chief of the PSP, as you can learn from public and available data, did not even attempt to coordinate the actions of the chiefs of civil defence of voivodships and voivodships. Why is this happening? Why is there a change in the system? Why was this system duplicated and a centralized system built? I am aware that the elites of Law and Justice do everything on their orders to create a rescue system that will act as ordered, but it is very dangerous because something else can follow. Next move. This could lead to a revision of the Crisis Management Act, a law that hatched into hard work that saved human life. And this bill can be challenged. Or maybe because it is a decentralised system, a decentralised system that works best when there are no politicians from Warsaw in the field. Another case, short notice. Now this is the most important, most difficult topic we have to talk about. It is that every purchase that was organized by the government - a mask, a hatchet, tests, a shield, spent almost a billion zlotys - all these purchases were ineffective purchases, and yet the minister has the police, other services, and should be controlled. It is known that articles have been introduced that have restricted the functioning of the Penal Code. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now, just one more second, Marshal. The functioning of the Penal Code has been restricted, but that does not justify the operation of the services. The services should work even more effectively. It wasn't some kind of coronation for the police. The police should, and the other servants, activate in the shield... Okay, sir. Thank you. ...of this kind of transaction to protect government officials. Mr President, it's been half a minute. As we can see, the scandal is chasing. We see a lack of preparation for the threat that could be expected. And the second element... Thank you very much, sir. The scandal is chasing the government's action all the time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u302	Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u303	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! The citizens' coalition's motion for a vote of distrust towards Minister Kaminski is unsubstantiated, weak and chaotic. It's just a political attack calculated only on a media storm, because we all know what the finale of this story will be. The justification for the proposal is extremely impossible. The competences of the Minister in the field of home affairs are confused with those of the Special Service Coordinator. It is patronized by the former Minister of the Interior of the Civic Platform government, the one with the sign of a pile of stones and a burning guard booth burned during the March of Independence. Created by Mr. Ziobra. Yes, sir. Ha, ha, ha! I was walking by that booth while she was on fire. I've seen people who have deviated, Minister. Zbigniew Zioba... Mr President, please calm down. But you're telling the truth. Sometimes we want nothing to do with the bad ones, too, for the Polish Police. We are not a total opposition as the Confederation and we see that there are also positive and long-awaited uniforms in the resort. I hope that we will be able to resolve this effectively in the near future. crazyly burning problem of staff shortages, especially in the police, because the difficult service for the Polish state should always be properly valued, and the officers should be provided with the possible comfort of fulfilling it. However, the work of Minister Kaminski Confederation has its own reservations, such as the lack of work on easier access to firearms for responsible Poles, the silent attempt to take away the right to black powder weapons, the lack of cooperation with the MON in the preparation of a proposal for codification of the widely understood defence and security law, and the brutal pacifications of national communities protesting against LGBT marches, among others. in Rzeszow. In addition, the prosecution just discontinued the investigation into a man who was detained on the last year's Independence March in Wrocław, the one with a child on his hands who received numerous blows with telescopic batons from two officers. I do not know whether it has already been established whether the rights have been exceeded or whether they have not yet been established. The last thing in the field of special services, today it is already on the platform: humiliating talk of the President of the Republic of Poland with jokers. Where were the servants? We need parliamentary control of the services also on our part, but consistently, despite the strong mandate of the Confederate Members, access to the Commission for Special Services is still closed to us, which is a big mistake. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u304	Thank you very much. In the next part of the speeches on behalf of the Confederation, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u305	Minister! As Head of the Ministry, you are responsible not only for your own actions, but also for the conduct of your people, your vice ministers. On May 31st, I filed an interpellation in which I demanded the disclosure of the state of work on the Arms and Ammunition Act. I still haven't gotten an answer to that interpellation. On 3 July, I asked Vice Minister Wąsik to intervene in order to disclose the documents that the Ministry is preparing, and I have not received these documents until today. 14 days have passed, the time has passed for reply to the interpretation, the time has passed for replying to the parliamentary intervention. Your men aren't responding to that. Minister Wąsik promised me this bill, and then he promised me a note about it. After all, he didn't send me anything. Your Undersecretary of State, Bartosz Grodecki, has simply deceived me. He said he'd be right back with the bill, and then he came back with some briefcase that had nothing to do with the memo pretending to answer my interpellation, which she didn't actually answer, or what was written there wasn't true. Ladies and gentlemen! This is the Legislative Chamber, not the Ministry. At the moment, the tail of a merda dog. Is it okay for you Members here, including the Law and Justice, that you have been demoted to the role of some CEO bots who just push buttons? We can't figure out what the ministry is working on. It has already sent this project to accept the Prime Minister and still does not want to reveal this project. Why are you withholding legislative work from the Legislative Chamber? I demand an answer to my interpellation, and I am handing it to the Minister hereby so that you may personally deal with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u306	Thank you very much. And, half a minute, Mr Grzegorz Braun. You're welcome. No, no, thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u307	God bless you! This is an official attachment. I'm putting him in the hands of a representative of the Sejm Bureau. This is today's press, the Supreme Time! On page 18 - an article entitled The service of the Confederation. Yes, sir, we have our reservations to the minister. The main reservation is that none is sitting, neither Sienkiewicz nor Kaminski. Somehow they don't want to sit each other down. And as long as the booths are on fire, normal people face each other. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Sodomite invasion... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u308	Thank you very much. Time's up, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers... I'm asking you to explain this case. You're welcome. Mr President, please take a seat in the sitting room. You're welcome, sir. Thank you, Marshal. Consider this a question to the Minister. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome, Prime Minister. In that case, first of all, Minister Mariusz Kaminski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I approach today's procedure with complete humility and no arrogance. I'm always at your disposal. These are obvious issues, maybe they sound cliché, and they're cliché, but they're obvious. The Minister is always at the disposal of the Prime Minister and always at the disposal of Parliament. I don't know what the outcome of the vote will be. I assume it might be positive for me, because, as you can see from today's vote, there is a stable majority in Parliament, but that's not the point, ladies and gentlemen. In accordance with a Seym procedure, I was summoned here by you, the opposition, to make an explanation as Minister of the Interior. This isn't a hate show about Mariusz Kaminski. In accordance with the procedure, I am responsible as Minister of the Interior for the allegations you are making against me. In fact, I would like to respond to these allegations, because as Minister of the Interior, I don't really see them. Some issues are being raised here, in the Chamber, also yesterday at the committee meeting we discussed this, and it is not that it is possible to ask any questions and carry out any attacks on a disliked policy under this procedure. Yes, I will answer those issues that relate to my role as Minister of Home Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen! I read the application carefully and its justification. I found eight charges against me there, one of which really concerns me as Minister of the Interior. I'm talking about accusations, not facts, actually: the insinuations that are contained there, often demented, obvious. Mr Sipiera rightly pointed out that the wording of this proposal, such as the high probability, could be presumed. That's a quote. from your justification. Another one: According to the media reports, that is specifically the Election Gazeta, isn't it? Nomen omen. Ha, ha, ha! In the public opinion there is a belief - these are the reasons for the insinuations you are making towards me. But I will answer the charges, because here is one fundamental charge: the brutal suppression of the law, the fundamental right for citizens to gather freely and articulate their views. Yes, I believe it is a fundamental law, a sacred law. You're talking about brutally suppressing legal manifestations. The explanatory statement states that the suppression of peaceful and legal protests by citizens against the actions of power brings to mind the darkest pages of history of the Polish People's Republic. That's a sentence. from your justification. Shame on you. Shame on you. [[Applause]] Bravo! I asked at the committee's meeting: What are the darkest cards in the history of the Polish People's Republic that bring you to mind what has happened in recent months in Poland? What? What black cards are there in the context of choking public gatherings? Poznań 1956 comes to mind? December 1970? December 1981 Uncle's Mine? Mine Uncle comes to mind? Awesome? So think about what you're writing, what you're saying, what you're saying, because you're not insulting me. December 1981 and 1982 Now I am speaking, sir. There's a question. There's an answer. Because it's not me you're insulting. You insult the victims of communist crimes by analyzing evil, analyzing crimes, comparing the happenings of one of the presidential candidates to the communist crimes. You have no right to do this because you insult those victims who deserve to be remembered and respected. [[Applause]] We do. Plus, you're insulting $100,000. Polish policemen, comparing them to communist criminals. No. Whoever gives the orders. I ask you to remain calm, sir. The Minister asked, he's got an answer. You had time to make your speech. Minister of Interior and Administration Mariusz Kaminski: As Minister of the Interior against such insinuations, I protest such vile words. You're saying they were legal protests. They weren't legal. Just like in 1981. Under existing law, in relation to a pandemic across Europe, in almost all European countries, there are prohibitions on accumulation in order to maintain social distance, as this is the most effective form of reducing pandemics. In some countries these prohibitions exist so far. Maybe eight people legally gather in France. Such prohibitions have been introduced throughout Europe. In Poland this ban was valid for a month and a half... [[♪ The bell ♪]] One and a half. A month and a half. Thank you for the correction. ...from April 16th to May 29th. Then there was a demonstration organized by a presidential candidate who had this idea for his campaign. Five years ago, he took the last place with a 0.2% score. Now he wanted to lead a wave of protests. Is anyone really able to believe that we've been dealing with an entrepreneurial strike? Come on, guys, really stop telling each other this nonsense. What about time? We've been dealing with political happening. Does that justify the beating? The clock's stopped. I understand that I also have limited time, as do you, so I will actually not be able to justify these things in detail and for a long time. But I draw your attention to the words that fall in parliament, to their importance, to the fact that you insult people, to the memory of those who died in the Polish People's Republic for freedom, for free Poland and for bread. These are inadequate things. And if what happened on 16 May in Castle Square, where one police officer in an absolutely adequate situation used pepper spray against a group of aggressive protestors physically attacking police cordon, you compare it to the blackest cards from the history of the Polish People's Republic, then simply lack of words for what you are doing, it is a lack of seriousness. What have Homeland Security services been doing in recent months? They've done a lot, and it's my duty to thank them... And Szumowski? ...no one to hide, but thank you. The public needs to know about this. 10 million quarantine visits were carried out by police officers. It's already 10 million, because these checks are still going on. And it's not just about enforcing important epidemic requirements, but it's also about asking this citizen who follows the rules and is home: Do you have bread, do you have medicines, can we help you with something? It's not about the cops. It's about you. Border Guard... Yeah, you're accusing the cops of being a mindless tool in the hands of the new Kiszczak because that's what you think. Not that you're cynical... That's a good association. No, these are your insinuations. The Border Guard had to rebuild our country's borders overnight, internal borders that didn't exist for years. Within a few days, there were real boundaries to protect our citizens from the transmission of the virus. Fire department, under the authority of the Home Minister. All those tents you saw in front of the Polish hospitals, which were temporary emergency rooms, were firefighters' tents, firefighters set them up. Firefighters supported the service at the border, while at the same time carrying out their duties in extremely difficult situations. The biggest fire in the national park, over Biebrza, was effectively extinguished within a few days by hundreds of firefighters coming from all over the country. The submersibles that took place, violent, surprising everyone, in many regions of the country. Is there anyone left without help? Yeah, that was the fire department's operation. Get to the point, Minister. I am talking about what the Home Minister has been doing in recent months and his subordinate services, for which I want to thank them from this place. What about the RCB alert? Voivodeships, who are under the Ministry of Home Affairs, are indeed hosts in a time of very difficult fight against the coronavirus. Your marshal, time. They're the ones who ran the whole field, they're the ones who set up a network of single-name hospitals, supplies for these hospitals, isolation. 7 days a week, on Saturday, on Sunday too, there were crisis headquarters. This is how the services and administration under the Ministry of Home Affairs worked. That's the truth. And no one will deny them the right to be satisfied with what they've done because they've done a lot of good things for all citizens. [[Applause]] You're talking about police brutality, about how there's been a riot just like what happened in tragic situations in the Polish People's Republic. Look at what happened at that time in other countries in Europe. Have you seen these pictures from the United States, these fights with the police, these assaults on police officers, the shops, also the monuments? Do you want such scenes in Poland? No, there will be no such scenes in Poland, there will be no autonomous zones without the police, because the police are one of the elements of the functioning of the state. Anyone who understands how you operate knows that the services under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must act efficiently. And they're working well. And they'll work smoothly. [[Applause]] And from here, despite all the insinuations that come at my address... I do not care, you are not able to offend me, I am used to it, but indirectly you attack the officers of the Polish state who serve all citizens. We deny it. Nobody said that. And that's unacceptable, that's unacceptable. And I would like to thank all the officers of the services under the Minister of Home Affairs and all the officials under the Minister once again very warmly. And last but not least, I will be brief on these topics of the day. Ladies and gentlemen, you are discussing the subject, again showing your incompetence and lack of knowledge about the functioning of the State. Of course, this is not the role of Home Affairs Minister. Oh, for God's sake, special forces to control the president's international talks or the Prime Minister's? Yeah, I guess so. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There are appropriate offices at the President's Office, the Prime Minister's Office, the International Cooperation Office, which every day organize these kinds of things every day, where certain things are verified. Someone really failed, and we know who. We know by name and name the person to whom the President's Office addressed in the Polish Representation at the UN, who was asked to verify the credibility of this phone and who confirmed that it is credible that this situation is credible. There will be consequences for a particular person who failed, who had a duty as an employee of the Polish representative at the UN... I say this to the public, not because the Home Minister or the Special Services Coordinator has something to do with international talks conducted by the most important people in the country. In the sense of securing them - so that they are not overheard, but not in the sense of communicating with the heads of state. This is nonsense, this is a lack of elementary knowledge. You're asking about the RCB. You're saying I abused the RCB, except for the fact that the RCB doesn't belong to the Home Secretary. If someone makes such an accusation, they should at least check the basics. You really think that telling that pregnant women that people with disabilities and seniors... This is a violation of the bill. ...they can approach without a vote queue, is it abuse? No, it's in the interests of those people, because you have to keep security measures, and those people should be particularly protected. Yeah, sure. But we let people like that pass in the shops, too. The RCB has repeatedly sent alarms like this. And don't explain your failure with RCB alerts because it's ridiculous and pathetic. [[Applause]] So, when I conclude my speech, I would like to stress once again that these emotions that you are awakening, this wave of resentment, hatred must have an end. But I hope that the emotions will drop a little after the election. Next elections in 3 years, so work as parliamentarians for the sake of the Polish state and citizens. You'll take care of your work. Do your job well... Szumowski... The investigation is ongoing, ma'am, and the investigation is under way from Minister Szumowski's notice. These are your insinuations, you decide guilt. But it took so long? He will respond to this investigation, in which functions are also performed by the Central Anti-corruption Office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u310	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let me also talk in a few minutes about the achievements of the Minister, because that should be said, and I will thank the Minister for his actions at this extremely difficult time. This time, the time of COVID-19, as someone here rightly noted, was a pandemic which no country in the world was able to predict, put before the special services and uniformed services exceptional expectations and exceptional requirements. And at that time, when, on the one hand, the uniformed services under the authority of the Minister, the Police, the State Fire Department, the Border Guard, had to fulfil their duties so far and at the same time meet the social expectations of the new tasks imposed on them, at the same time huge financial irregularities were detected, as well as those which are on the mouth of the whole Europol, in connection with the detection of giant drug smuggling, and not one but three such attempts at smuggling. When I realized how much value there is in the cooperation of the various services that Minister Kaminski organized, and at the same time how much it lacked before, I was very sorry about how many irregularities had to be avoided in earlier times, in the times of our predecessors, before such checks. Well, for the last six months, seven months, but during the time he hit COVID-19, drug gangs of international reach have been broken down and tens of thousands of lives and health have been saved, maybe hundreds of thousands of young people across Europe - not only in Poland, also across Europe. That is why the Prime Ministers of other countries thanked me for these actions which have so effectively thwarted the import of drugs into the European Union. These actions have become known to the public. I encourage everyone to look at how uniformed services interacted from the practical point of view and what the deficits were in the past. More areas that I wanted to draw attention to - you spoke about these other areas, Minister Kaminski, so only briefly. The police, in addition to their normal activities, have carried out excellent activities in the area of quarantine control, but also in meeting the needs that can be called daily needs of the most demanding people, i.e. support in the provision of food, going for medicines, helping in everyday life needs. Here the cops were always available, and for that I wanted to thank all the cops. That's over 9 million, Minister said: 10 million visits [[Applause]] - 10 million visits. Thanks to you, dear police officers, this disease has been successfully reduced. State Fire Department. The Minister also spoke of it. At the time she helped with the melting, flooding, large fires, at the same time she performed her duties on various front lines related precisely to COVID-19. Similarly, the Border Guard - more than 2.5 million additional border controls. How many infected citizens of foreign countries have been prevented or how many citizens of our country who have been quarantined have been prevented by such effective measures. This is also due to the uniformed services of the Minister. I'm also thinking about your allegations of special services, and I see that not only do they have nothing to do with reality, but I'm also comparing them to actions in your time, to actions that you probably want to forget, such as police activities at the Merchant Goods Houses or in the Hawk-Zdroj. It was in February 2015, then the police were forced, so to speak, by command to shoot the miners with rubber bullets. Scandal! This is a disgraceful action. Similarly, the action of the Fork - several hundred supporters arrested, long held in custody. Many of them, reach out to their testimony, talk about being tortured, being abused. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that funny to you, sir? That's what happened. Don't laugh. Please take your statement. Don't laugh, please reach for the statements of these fans. This is finally an Anti-Comor action, where eight anti-terrorists were directed against one student at 6:00 a.m., if memory serves me right, who set up a website against the then president Bronisław Komorowski. What about that girl last night... These are the actions in which you used anti-terrorist services, special forces, and the collected materials for Mr. Joseph P. ended up in the drawer. In the meantime, I would like to stress one thing clearly, because it did not fall here, Minister Kaminski. We treat people equally related to the ruling camp and the opposition, because people also associated with the governing camp are detained, because the sword of the law to the evil one should indeed be completely objective and not looking at who comes from. And that is why Minister Kaminski is the best minister in the times of the Third Republic, which prevents corruption, which in the maximum possible way tries to recover the resources, the money that fell into the hands of criminal groups. [[Applause]] You want proof? Yes, in the years 2016 and 2019 it is more than PLN 10 billion taken from crime groups by the ABW, more than PLN 3.5 billion taken by the CBA. These are the services of the Minister. Nor would this success be in reducing the role of the VAT mafia, in reducing the tax offences associated with the VAT mafia, those crimes in which you pretend to be looking at the ground at this point, as I say, because they hurt you the most. Because this is a few dozen billion zlotys a year confirmed by the European Commission... I wonder how much they took. ...which made social policy at a completely different level. This is also due to the services of Minister Kaminski. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Applause]] Therefore, your Marshal, High Izbo, Minister Kaminski in earlier months, which I have recently spoken about in a request made by you, as well as, and perhaps especially in recent months, when the normal tasks of the special forces, the uniformed services, have faced various hybrid challenges related to cybersecurity... During this time, there were various types of arrests of spies, arrests and expulsions of people who clearly threatened the security of the state, 48 people who had terrorist intentions, so our anti-terrorist groups have successfully passed the test because they have identified the source of the risk and have expelled them and have not allowed twenty-several people associated with international terrorist groups. You can't see what works well. And instead of thanking Minister Kaminski, you are making really ridiculous accusations against him, accusations that have nothing to do with reality, because in addition to the normal role that uniforms and special services performed at that time, yes, also the role of obtaining medical resources, medical resources, because today you pretend to forget these headlines from 3 months ago: Where to get masks? Where do you get the ventilators? How do I get... But we don't forget that. Yes, we have been looking all over the world for this, as have all the countries of the European Union. Irregularities that have been detected in the European Union are many times beyond those that we ourselves have detected and which we are obviously seeking to explain. But for the fact that Minister Kaminski and Minister Szumowski were searching all over the world for materials and saving the lives of tens of millions, tens of thousands of Poles, thousands, tens of thousands of Poles, they deserve the words of thanks, not the absurd conclusions you are making. [[Applause]] Therefore, in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I have a brief appeal: Be an opposition to the Brightest Republic, not a total opposition, because the conclusions you direct and the wordings... It's unbearable. ...and with the disgraceful words that you have concluded, you insult the majesty of the Republic of Poland and many Poles, who, as Minister Kaminski has rightly said here, remember the times of the Polish People's Republic well. We're proud to be patriots. But we will still try to modernise uniformed services and improve the operation of the state services so that they serve the common good, that they also serve you, because the Polish state is our future, that is our common good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u312	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We shall proceed to the vote on this matter... Your Marshal... In what mode, sir? In ad vocem mode only to the Minister... But I'm sorry, you weren't quoted, your statement. He was. Ad vocem. I've been reporting about... One sentence. One sentence. You're welcome. One sentence, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u313	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm in ad vocem mode. Of course, I will not argue with the Prime Minister, this is not the rank, but I wanted to address on one point what Minister Kaminski said. Dear Minister, I specifically emphasized during this speech, like my colleague, that we are respectful of the uniformed services that do their work perfectly, just as they did before, before you were a minister, and as they will do their work, as you will be long gone. ...the one who kicked the protestor. And it's not your fault we have good cops. Thank you. Then don't hide behind them, and don't tell us we're actually humiliating the cops because it's the exact opposite. Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u314	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. The Minister still wants to speak. I'm closed. Closed point, Minister. You're welcome. In what mode? There's no mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u315	Dear Sir, In one opinion, I will refer to you, the Minister's words. Let the facts speak. Annual public opinion polls on the evaluation of public institutions show progress We have done as a Polish country, as the Ministry of Home Affairs. Do you know, Minister, the former Home Minister, how Poles accepted police action in 2015 when you were still a Minister? We know. In 2015, the number of positive assessments concerning police work accounted for 65%. A lot. In 2020, after a few years of rule of law and justice, for the first time in history, the Polish Police were assessed by the highest number of citizens, and the support for it and the good assessment of its work reached 80%. [[Applause]] 15% After a few years of rule of law and justice. This is our work on services under the Minister of Home Affairs. (Applause Bravo!) In my day, 72. We can move.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u316	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra (prints Nos 454 and 475). I ask the representative of the applicants, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, to provide a justification for the proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with the incredible arrogance and boot of this power. There isn't even a minister of Ziobra in the case of a motion for mistrust that concerns him. The Ministry of impunity. [[Applause]] That's what you should call a resort under Zbigniew Ziobra. Trefne masks, bad tests, bad ballots, invisible respirators and unimaginable inaction of Zbigniew Ziobra's department, the prosecution's office on these issues. It's time to look into the eyes and ask if we happen to be living in a bad country called the PiS. High Izbo! In the PiS country, the scandal is chased by the scandal, but we all feel that no one in the PiS is chasing. Yesterday at the justice committee meeting you didn't even allow questions to be asked, today's motion is five minutes' notice. These are standards like in Putin Russia, as in Russian Duma, not in the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]] Mrs... Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Here are the simplest questions we can put about the last three scandals. The whole mask thing. We know who ordered the bad masks. We know who made it. If you were Minister Ziobro, I would ask him if he was able to explain in any rational way why no one is in custody yet. The Polish State was robbed, [[Applause]] A really thick shaft was made, and the guilty walk free. Minister Ziobro, why are you the Attorney General in this case? Such a question would have come to him if he had been. Next thing you know, ventilators. The Ministry of Health controlled by PiS, instead of joining the EU tender, signed a contract with some firefighter, transferring it in April a few hours after signing the contract 160 million PLN. There's supposed to be 1,200 ventilators, and there's a small fraction of that number. Most of the money, the 160 million, has gone missing. The same applies to those who have no responsibility in this matter. No one's ever been held accountable. Where's the D.A.'s office in the PiS state? Where's the D.A.'s office in the PiS state? That's the question that's pressing on your mouth. You pretend to be the most honest people in the world, and when hard questions start to concern those who now have power, you suddenly become people who haven't heard anything, who haven't seen anything. I thought whatever you guys were in charge, at least you'd catch thieves. You know, you can't even do that. Ladies and gentlemen! It's just another annoying thing. Jacek Sasin and his men have prepared an envelope election that didn't stand a chance. Mr. Jacek Sasin. Everyone knew that. Epidemic, nothing worked normally. The police were handing out tickets coming out of the house, tens of thousands of people in quarantine. Losses for the state, for each of us, for those who work hard and pay taxes, have reached, as journalists estimated, PLN 70 million. At a time when every public penny is important, he could save jobs. So? And nothing, deaf silence. Did anyone have any charges filed in this case? Why didn't Jacek Sasin answer the questions of the D.A.'s office? If you were Minister Ziobro, I'd ask him questions... There it is. He's here. It's on time. Is it? Oh, that's very good. Minister! A list of your mistakes, your omissions I could exchange forever, but you only gave me five minutes. Let me be clear: you are the worst minister of justice in the history of Poland. [[Applause]] That's why today the only thing you should get is not a vote of confidence, but a disciplinary release. Here it is. This is a disciplinary release, which I give to you on behalf of millions of Poles who are tired of turning a blind eye to events involving the people of PiS. He gives it to you on behalf of millions of Poles who are tired of politicising the courts. Who signed it? I give on behalf of millions of Poles who are tired of politicising the prosecution and using it for party purposes. I transmit on behalf of millions of Poles who are tired of destroying European standards and introducing here, in Poland, standards known only from Russia and Belarus. I give on behalf of millions of Poles who are tired of paralyzing the Constitutional Tribunal. And let it, this disciplinary release, be a symbol of five years of your presence at the Ministry of Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u318	Thank you very much, Member. I ask Mr Kurzepa to present the opinion of the committee. Don't act like that, don't do that to the document. [[Joy in the Chamber]] A document... Mrs. Member! Member, please return to your seat and behave with dignity. You're welcome, sir. Don't litter the Seym. This is the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, not the Russian Pride... Madame, you are violating the seriousness of the Sejm. Don't litter the room. Who's littering? I think it's you. I would ask you to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Opinion of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on a parliamentary motion for a vote of distrust against the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra, print No 454. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 2 The Committee on Justice and Human Rights, after considering this proposal at its meeting on 14 July 2020, decided to take a negative opinion on the proposal. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u320	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Questions are not acceptable as a separate element of the debate. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Piotr Sak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u321	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! In the prologue of my speech, in order not to hold it for long, I will immediately reveal the position of our parliamentary club in relation to the motion for the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. [[Joy in the Chamber]] It is, of course, strongly opposed, absolutely opposed to your proposal. No, something like that. Your application is completely cloudy and verbatim. Here you have tried to color it a little bit, but unfortunately this is not the place for cabaret performances. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! In general, such applications are specific, specific indictments. Your application does not meet these criteria, you have even made a fundamental, cardinal and elementary error - the addressee is wrong. Your request, this claim-like product, should not go to the Sejm at all, but at the very least to the competition them. Ignacy Krasicki and Stanisław Lem, because there are so many stories and fantasies, political fantasy. Please leave Lem alone. Besides, one should wonder at the opposition's actions, which he chooses, is targeting the members of the Council of Ministers who have achievements and successes, and attacking them. So it's easy to disprove your arguments, even how to smash powder from the navy... What a cabaret. ...because the strength of your arguments is comparable to the combat capability of plastic soldiers. Many ministers are very active and dynamic. Against this background you stand out Minister Zbigniew Ziobro, like Minister of State Assets Jacek Sasin, Minister of Health Mr Łukasz Szumowski and Minister of Interior and Administration Mr Mariusz Kaminski. You've all dealt with the motion for mistrust. What's their connection? They're people of hard, titanic work, [[Applause]] And you don't like people like that. After all, the years of your governments are a time of mere quality, moods of inability, a time of applied kranology, this warm water in the tap, which is synonymous with your idleness and intellectual laziness. [[Applause]] Your philosophy and doctrine were the escape from government, the preservation of actions, and even nanibism and simulation. Any argument? Instead of working your ass off, you'd rather be racking your ass off. Hence the threat to you from our government, which is very hardworking and effective. You're suffering from an abulia. There's such a disease. You cannot fulfill your intentions and promises. For the past five years, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro has been the head of the Ministry of Justice. The list of achievements and successes is considerable. Of course, I do not necessarily expect you to have uncritical delights, but your assessment has nothing to do with reality. The last few years have been a time of ruthless struggle, a time of war with scandalists. There's money being taken away from drug cartels and the mob, there's a VAT crime, there's more punishment for drunk drivers, there's a record of paedophiles. It's been pardoned. What was your attitude toward the whistleblowers? That's the basic difference. You pulled out their planes, their business, and we take their property, we put them behind bars. The Ministry also supports vulnerable and disadvantaged people, on the other hand. Zbigniew Ziobro is a protector and guardian of the interests of the weak and the victims. Ha, ha, ha. In recent years, protection of victims of domestic violence has been increased, child support has been made effective, a nationwide network of free legal assistance has been introduced. Finally, extended confiscation solutions have been introduced. That's not true. Finally, the cleaning of the tenement house was stopped. This denture of tenants has been interrupted. No more bailiff abuse. I'm done picking up kids for poverty. It was also finished with the hasty spending of children abroad. You've already replaced three of our things. Prisoners have been activated. The proportion of prisoners employed, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 was 36, today - 57. There is also the action of the Justice Resort helps, and within it the production of masks, clothing. These are millions of equipment, equipment that has been manufactured, manufactured and handed over to institutions. Multi-directional measures are therefore being taken and are also relevant to judicial reform. Ladies and gentlemen! Your authorities once diagnosed the situation with respect to the KRS very well. Andrzej Rzepliński said in 2004: KRS is a state-owned trade union that preserves the interests of Polish judiciary. It wasn't an isolated sentence. Jerzy Stępień said: KRS cares about the interests of the judicial corporation, while it is not an organ that cares about true independence. What about you? You were stuck in this sad reality, you wanted to have peace of mind, and you didn't do anything about it. Only the government of the United Right changed that. Ladies and gentlemen! Facts say against your proposal and persisting in the delusion that it is different, does not change the objective state of things. Achievements, and the list is getting longer, we can talk with deserved satisfaction (The Bell), without overachieved delights. It's not about putting out a card, but it's about realising an assessment that you've unfortunately run out of. Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Through this request, the Sejm is unduly absorbed by the occupation, which is not based on the facts. Time's up. Mr President, let us stick to the rules as well as to the opposition... You fall into a mess of total negation and emotion... ...as well as the opposition, I'm asking you... That's not true. ...about the end of the speech. Ladies and gentlemen! You're making a mess and a mess that doesn't serve the Sejm's authority... Thank you very much, sir. ...and socially they are not only useless, but even harmful, because they are incomprehensible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u322	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Arkadiusz Myrch. Next to the subject. I asked if Szumowski was interrogated, Sasin. Those are questions. No one answered me. Mrs... You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u323	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I would like to make it clear that we support the motion to revoke Zbigniew Ziobra. We support the motion to dismiss the worst minister of justice. [[Applause]] We support the motion to dismiss the Minister, who built the Ministry's policy on lies, manipulations and cheap propaganda of success, which was the best confirmation yesterday's meeting of the Justice Committee. This is not a question of our subjective political assessment. The facts, statistics, but above all the evaluation of Poles, speak against Mr Ziobra. This is the first Minister of Justice in history, which throughout its term of office has consistently negative assessments of the activities and prosecutions, and courts. Take a look at the CBOS. This is a knockout and a shame, Minister. In a moment we will probably hear about other CBOS studies, that now Poles seem to feel extremely safe in Poland. But, Minister, I'm referring you to this CBOS study. You will notice that Poles as a safe place of residence rate about 90% continuously since 2008, so don't take credit for other people's successes. This is an outstanding achievement, above all, for the police, for the municipal guards, for the local government, but certainly not for you. Another myth of Minister Ziebra's overthrown. But I'd like to get back to yesterday's justice committee. Minister Ziobro, Minister Warchoł was absolutely shamefully accusing us of supporting criminals as if we were pursuing a passive policy towards the perpetrators of sexual crimes, pedophilia. I'll remind Mr. Ziobra. This is the Act of April 2014, adopted by the Sejm. This law protected Polish children from the phenomenon of prostitution. This bill was directly hit by degenerates who promoted child pornography. All new regulation of the article. 202 Penal Code. This law has given the police more operational powers to combat sexual crimes, in particular against minors. And today it's a success that you're proud of. Good. Yesterday, on the justice committee, Minister Ziobro and Minister Warchoł lied rudely to the Poles. And if they had a sense of honor, they'd just resign for the lies themselves. But speaking of Minister Warchoł. As I listened to you on the justice committee yesterday, I just felt sorry for you, because the lion's part of your speech was devoted to criticizing the governments of the Platform and the PSL, our criminal policy. But let me remind you: you were not in the PiS ranks at the time, you were here in the Polish Sejm as legal advisor to the Palikot Movement Club. You advised Janusz Palikot. [[Applause]] And you know what? The Palikot movement supported most of these initiatives. This revision of the 2015 Penal Code, which you are so critical of, was supported by your then mogul Janusz Palikot. Minister, what's it like? Either you were a mediocre advisor, or you're just a career man and a hypocrite today. [[Applause]] In what role do you feel better - this choice is entirely left to you. Minister Wójcik said that prisoners had only started working since 2015. Minister, I'll surprise you. They've worked before. They worked before the Platform and the PiS were established, and by 2010, more prisoners worked for a fee than now. You've got a score of 17,000. Take a look - 20,000 worked before 2010. prisoners for payment. [[Applause]] There were later, the fact, the skinny summers, 2011.2013, but then Jarosław Gowin was responsible for the prison. The only difference between us is that we thanked him, and you took him as Deputy Prime Minister. The Justice Fund has supported crime victims for years, and no one has been charged with it. But Minister Ziobro and his crew are here. So? Money without competitions, millions for Fr.Rydzyk's empire, 25 million for CBA, from which Pegasus was probably purchased, and today we hear that CBA is monitoring twice as many people as ABW. The NIK report is devastating for you. Shows that from the accumulated funds less than 20% You're targeting victims of crime. It's a disgrace. Summary. 5 years of Minister Ziobra is a complete collapse of the justice system and the loss of confidence in this system by Poles. Poles are waiting record for court decisions. The situation at the D.A.'s office is even worse. There are now more than 21 000 long-term cases, with this figure reaching only 6 000 in 2015. The Polish State is paying more and more compensation for its long-term behaviour. Mysterious promotions in the D.A.'s office completely without competitions. Discipliners for prosecutors who have the courage to be independent (the bell) and have an opinion. Shield, protection for cases involving PiS people, which will be symbolized forever by total indifference in the so-called case. President Kaczyński's bribes. There's a drop in court cases involving the D.A.'s office. Mr... This is a black picture of the Polish justice system after 5 years of Minister Ziobra. Your Marshal... Thank you very much, sir. Facts and figures are in favour of giving a vote of distrust to Minister Ziobra. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u324	Thank you very much. The position of the parliamentary club of the Left will be presented to the High House by Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's always hard for me to pass through my mouth: Minister of Justice Zbigniew Ziobro, because you have as much in common with justice as President Andrzej Duda has in common with the constitution. You licked something, but you didn't get it. But let's move on to your sins. Prosecutor's office. The prosecution is fully in your service and is pursuing more and more political proceedings. You can instantly file an indictment against an activist for stickers with a rainbow Mother of God. You can instantly initiate proceedings against students from the University of Silesia and interrogate them as if they were murderers. You can drag him out of the house and put him in jail without any explanation of the activists for hanging posters, and so far you haven't filed an indictment against Jarosław Kaczyński for two towers, and there are tapes on it. Second sin, pedophilia. You did a hell of a theater on the committee last night. No waving your hands will wash away the shame and blasphemy of you and President Duda, who pardoned the paedophile. You gave a child molester freedom... [[Touchdown, applause]] Some Members chant: He lies! He's lying! He's lying! Madam, please stick to the facts. ...though over a year ago you sounded: the perpetrator has a restraining order and a restraining order against the victim of sexual abuse. You said it was mandatory. Yesterday, on the committee, you also told us about facts and figures. Here we go. Did you address 382 cases of paedophile priests, about which the Polish Episcopate spoke at its conference in March 2019? 56% These cases according to the Polish Episcopate never went to the prosecutor's office. Did you send at least one application to the Vatican for access to documentation about priests paedophiles from Poland? Since December, you have been given the opportunity to do so because Pope Francis has endured the papal mystery. All you did was send a letter to the regional prosecutor's office in which you ordered the state's authorities in their relations with the Church to cooperate and give up using their powers. You, Minister, are cynical about pedophilia, because it is all about defending bishops who hide and carry pedophiles in their caskets. [[Applause]] Another sin, the sin of the Justice Fund. NIK crushed that fund after the check. He showed that the fund did not provide effective assistance to victims of crime. Instead of helping the victims, you help politicians of Solidarna Polska and religious organizations. Not much, you started chasing non-governmental organizations that rebelled against these practices. You sent a non-governmental organization to the police to commandeer their computers with the victim's records. You tortured the activists with investigations so you could drop these investigations later because you didn't find anything. Mr. Ziobro, instead of chasing criminals, you're after innocent women. And that's heroic according to Ziobra. [[Applause]] Another sin, staff. You expose your colleagues wherever you want, in exposed positions in courts all over the country, and those who are unconscionable, you try to subvert, degrade, transfer, and intimidate. Of course, you also took care of your wife and your brother. You're also the main contractor for dismantleing the rule of law, stinging judges and calling them a privileged caste. That's what they called themselves. And I'm wondering if you're gonna take similar action against the privileged caste of the PiS millionaires' club, who have made millions of dollars in harmful transactions, shady business, or made money in the Treasury companies. It is for your authority that people from the fundamentalist organization Ordo Iuris, who openly proclaims their views of leaving the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, also get employment in the state institutions. [[Applause]] It was your Deputy Minister Piebiak who was the head of the system, whose purpose was to find hooks for judges and prosecutors. It's your man Matecki who runs a dozen pages that contain racist content. Minister! Jarosław Kaczyński used to look for a deal, but it grew because of you. Why? In 2015, you became Minister of Justice and appointed Mr Duda and Mrs Manowska with your ministers. In 2018, you sent Mrs Manowska to the Supreme Court with your unconstitutional hands, and in 2020 Mrs Manowska became a candidate for the first Supreme Court President and accidentally Andrzej Duda chose her for this position. In short, the former Deputy Minister of Justice of Ziobra appointed the former Deputy Minister of Justice of Ziobra as the first President of the Supreme Court. Minister! A friend of mine, a friend of mine once told me you were nothing. And you know what, Minister? Things have changed since then. No. You've done something even unbelievable, and within a dozen years, you've gone down to a level less than zero. That's why we're gonna ask you not to get a vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u326	The speech on behalf of the Parliamentary Club The Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be presented to the High House by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u327	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15, which I have the pleasure to represent, sees no reason to defend Minister Zbigniew Ziobra from appeal today. However, we take this vote of distrust as an excellent opportunity to assess, analyse your work at the Ministry of Justice, because, Minister, you have been the longest acting Minister of Justice in our country in the last 30 years. It's been five years since you ran the department in November. And in this context, Minister, your lineage, which was presented yesterday in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, is poorly presented to answer the embarrassing questions by reviewing the predecessors of many, many years ago. That's really incredibly weak. On 16 November 2015, when you included the Minister of Justice, you said, quote, "We will consistently aim to ensure that the justice system serves all people, including those weak, fat-free wallets. It is important to remember that courts are for people, not for people for courts. You have to admit, very good and right words. Many Poles then trusted you, hoping to repair the justice system in Poland. How they feel today, best, I think, is witnessed by the full column hall in January of this year representatives of associations gathering people injured by the justice system who came here, to the Sejm, at the invitation of the Polish Coalition club, to boast of how they have been for many years, when you manage the Ministry and the Public Prosecutor's Office, treated. It is best to show how bitter your attitude is today, Mr. Mark Kubali, whose application for an emergency complaint has been pending for more than 830 days. Let us recall that the emergency complaint was intended to help citizens affected by the justice system. Mr. Marek asks if these are the standards of operation of Minister Ziobra. But everyone sees instead of this improvement, Minister, High Izbo, a protective umbrella for the politicians of the United Right, for the ministers of the United Right, for the leaders of the United Right, for the officials of the United Right. As announced by Zbigniew Ziobra, the justice system was to be more citizen-friendly. It is worth showing, Minister, how today, after 4.5 years of your office, this friendship of justice towards citizens looks like. Two examples only. First: a request for enforcement by a court which another person cannot perform for the debtor - an increase in the fee by 400%. Second example: a request to fine a debtor who is not obliged to stop acting or not to interfere with the creditor's activities - an increase of 400%. And so on and so forth, Minister. The average length of court proceedings in 2015 and 2018 increased from 4.2 months to over 5.5 months. This increase is particularly evident in regional courts. There have been many declarations, Minister, about the effective fight against crime. Let's review these announcements, take a look at the statistics on crimes in completed preparatory proceedings in the years 2016-2019. The total number of crimes found increased from 6.4, i.e. from 748 thousand. in 2016 to 796 thousand in 2019 It was 48,000. More crimes. You assured me of better legal protection for children. Please examine together with your officials why requests to the prosecutor's office on the export of children from their homes abroad and the related distribution of siblings made by the Foundation to them. The good Shepherd is unrecognizable. Let's move on. Why a fundamental revision of many regulations last year [[♪ The bell ♪]] She ended up in a basket yesterday, put there by the Constitutional Tribunal? [[Applause]] Okay, Mr... One sentence, Marshal, if you don't mind. One sentence. At the end of the assembly, Minister. It's really time to stop practicing cynical politics at the expense of justice, and get on with fixing it. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u328	Mr Krystian Kaminski will present Mr Krystian Kamiński to the High House. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are now debating a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice of Zbigniew Ziobra. The arguments we hear on both sides do not impress me. After all, it is known in advance that Minister Ziobro will not touch anyone from the PiS, just as before it was known that the Minister from the Platform will not touch anyone from the Platform. Little is known in advance that no one from the Platform will be harmed by the rule of law and justice, and no one from the PiS will be harmed by the rule of the Platform. I could use one. Here I will remind you of the words from Mr Wojtunik's conversation with Mrs Bienkowska about who they believe is behind burning the booth at the Russian embassy during the March of Independence. In this case, I would like an in-depth investigation and a conviction. I don't see the Minister of Interior of the Platform, and I'd like to ask him if he's interested in an in-depth investigation on the subject, because I think he should be. So that I don't take these arguments seriously. But the argument that there are no systemic changes is already right. The changes we've made so far are just a struggle for influence. We need a system change. There is no agreement to continue in such an inefficient judicial system where ordinary citizens have no sense of justice and businesses have to wait for years to come to judgment. We all see that a thorough systemic reform is needed today to improve our courts in order to make them citizen-friendly. The courts should first of all be swift and fair. The judges must be freed from non-material, bureaucratic tasks. That is why, as a Confederation, we propose parametrization of courts, assigning assistants to every judge permanently, introducing the principle that he will become a judge should be the culmination of a legal career, not its beginning, finally ordering the subject of cooperation between courts and experts, which causes many problems, the introduction of electronic circulation of documents, and ultimately a process in 1 month. These are the reforms that Poles are waiting for, and this is the reason why the Minister of Justice should be dismissed, because he has not dealt with any systemic reform during these five years. The fight between your staff is really irrelevant in this case, because none of the parties has done anything to ensure that matters are resolved quickly and fairly. This can only result in a systemic change of the Polish judiciary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u330	Thank you, sir. And 2.5 minutes for Mr Arthur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u331	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I thank the Minister very much for honoring us with his presence, because at the beginning of this debate he was not, and I thought the debate was quite important. It is also a little sad that I am actually speaking to an almost empty room, because it seemed to me that it was not only that the coronavirus was practically over, but that it was canceled by the Prime Minister, but we are also talking about a rather important matter here. I'll start with this side. 25 September 2015 - do you remember what happened that day? A motion for a Court of State for Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. The majority that needed to be won at the time was 276 votes and 271 votes in favour. The absent: Andrzej Biernat, Ewa Kopacz, Piotr Tomański, Leszek Blanik, Cezary Kucharski, Irena Tomasz-Zesiuk, Marek Hok, Radosław Sikorski and Norbert Wojnarowski. Nine members of the Civic Platform have been absent in the Chamber and have not fulfilled their duties as Members of the House. There were no five votes left to put Zbigniew Ziobra in front of the State Court and settle for all the bad he's done so far. Not to mention the coalition PSL, it was worse there. There was even one Member who voted to back off Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. What moral right do you have today to submit a motion that is doomed to political failure, because most of them are on this side? But thanks to you, through you, Mr. Zbigniew Ziobro has been Minister and Attorney General for the last years. This is your doing, thank each other. There's no collective responsibility. This proposal you're making today is absurd, it's typically political, it's foaming. Ladies and gentlemen! The D.A.'s been yours for five years. The Constitutional Tribunal - yours. You even put a communist prosecutor and a messenger there, who in their public activity was actually just a heyth. You've practically taken over the Supreme Court, too. If you have all these mechanisms, you have such a brilliant minister of justice, why is the Civic Platform sitting here instead of in Białołęka? [[Applause]] After all, you were going to the election, saying that you of all thieves would account for all of them. Where are they sitting? Why not in prison? Where's the VAT-owska mob you're after? You tell everyone how you fought her. Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Inability, guys, laws written on the knee - this is Zbigniew Ziobra's card, which is why we're gonna... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...vote in favour of his dismissal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u332	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Justice, Mr Zbigniew Ziebra. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u333	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This is extremely striking, because it is better to refer to the facts that speak the most, because clear comparisons are the best answer to what we have heard here. Namely, these facts are the actions of the prosecution, so highly criticized and attacked by my previous speakers, in connection with the events that took place during the pandemic period, in connection with the case of masks, respirators. After all, it was in these cases that the prosecution opened an investigation the day after the notification was received, the day after the article in one of the newspapers showed possible irregularities. And how was it in the days of total opposition representatives who wanted to set special standards for the prosecution and criticize honest and honest investigators? Well, I'll remind you, because memory is a short thing and it's worth refreshing. The case of Senator Pinior of the Civic Platform. The evidence was collected in this case by law enforcement agencies during the Platform's reign in 2014. It must have been a year and a half since we took responsibility for the prosecution to get this case started and the investigation started. What were you waiting for? One day here and a year and a half there. Do you see the difference? Thieves! But let's say he's your colleague, your politician, the senator deserved. You've had some trouble chasing your own people not just in this case. Well, let's look at another fact. The Amber Gold case. Since the first notice to the prosecution in your day, it has been over two years, more than 600 days, and at that time people have been robbed of their wealth and their life's work. During this time, there were human dramas, and at that time some people took their own lives. How did the D.A.'s office, law enforcement, Homeland Security and the police you were in charge in your day work? What did you do for these people? How did you help them? Where was your sensitivity? Where was the professionalism? 2 years from the notification to the initiation of an investigation. Here you have a problem that we started the next day. [[Applause]] And it's bad, like the next day the D.A.'s office is starting a lawsuit, and it's good, like it does after two years. What do you want? Do you have any honor? This is not a river, this is not a sea, this is an ocean of hypocrisy, deception and cynicism. You can lie everywhere, also about the statistics that you spoke about, which I will refer to in a moment. The Finroyal case. Big deal, maybe not as famous as Amber Gold, but 75,000 were robbed and robbed. People. How long has it been since we started investigating this? Three years, almost 1,000 days. And here's one day. This is bad, and you guys are good. Yeah, those were the standards. And you say you have to go back to that time, your time, when the prosecution was separated from the Minister of Justice, when it acted just as we see in the examples I recall. There are other things, of course. There's a case for Senator Gawłowski... Oh, look at that. ...perhaps the first Member, as I recall, who, during the duties of Member of the Civic Platform Club, seems to be a senator now, got into the Senate with your support... Well, this case also has a similar story as Mr. Pinior's case, but somehow you weren't in a hurry to run it. However, it was the independent courts who applied the temporary arrest, and they maintained that, considering that the evidence collected by the prosecutor's office, which I am directing, is factual, legitimate and to the utmost extent points to the fact that it is likely that corruption, money laundering and other criminal acts which have been imposed on him and those who cooperate with him are likely to be committed. But I understand it's your political friend and colleague, who, by going against it, you defended even when independent courts, so heavily defended and shown as an example, indicated that there were very strong reasons to believe that serious criminal crimes were committed here. It didn't come to you. So if you compare the speed of proceedings in our time and in your day, you would be ashamed if you wanted to criticize us (the bell) without referring to your own experiences. That short of a speaking time? No, no, please. The new Sejm's Rules of Procedure. Rules of Procedure, Art. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 One, let's, so here we go. What can I say... Then I'll appeal. I think the good point of this speech is what I just said, that the scale of the charges you are pressing here is nothing but an ocean of deception. An example of this is also the CBOS data that the Member here referred to just now. You forgot to add that during the time when you were responsible for the justice system, for the security of Poles, Poles in 66% indicated that they felt safe and today 89%. [[Applause]] Do you see the difference? Well, there's a difference. Ready. She's coming from something. You're lying to the CBOS data, saying that there was supposedly a great deal of trust in the judiciary in your day, that it was supposed to fall. Now it is, you can say, the other way around. For the first time in history, by the way, there was an increase in trust, there was a greater level of confidence in the prosecution's actions than the level of distrust when I first became the Attorney General and Minister of Justice. These are hard data, CBOS tests. Check it out, get ready to perform, and then appeal to them. Well, I could recall a lot of data that completely contradict this fake painting that you're painting here, lying about the prosecution's actions, because in any case, if we look at the fight against mafia organized crime, if we look at the fight against economic crime, if we look at classical criminal crime, then we see a huge difference from previous times. I presented this data to the committee yesterday. Anyone can reach them if I don't have time. I'm only going to appeal to one case, which requires a response. This incredibly outrageous, lack of words, operation against President Andrzej Duda is not only worthy of the highest condemnation, but it actually shows your true face and your true face when it comes to this concern about the fate of the victims, especially the fate of women. Inevitable punishment, not paperwork. The D.A.'s running slower. ♪ 'Cause you guys are nothing ♪ Or they didn't do much to chase real paedophiles to sharpen the Penal Code against them. You can see the statistics of the various legislative initiatives that you blocked when we proposed an effective fight against pedophilia. But what's most striking... And you didn't put in place the anti-violence laws that we put in place, because you like to talk a lot, but that doesn't result in real action. But what you've done to those women affected in this case is how instrumentally, cynically, you've used it, it's really a summit that exceeds even my imagination of what you're capable of. Well, the facts in this case were clear. It was these brave women who committed a crime by their partner, their father, a man who was very heavily intoxicated, who initiated criminal proceedings, that led to this... They didn't pay the rent. They didn't have a roof over their heads. ...that the D.A.'s office was investigating this case, which led to an effective prosecution of the perpetrator for the cruel acts he committed. It's their fault, first of all, that the court... Where was the Justice Fund? ...who rarely marries such punishments, sentenced the perpetrator to four years of imprisonment. They finally broke up with him and had no relationship with him for years. Don't you feel guilty that he didn't help them? But then they too, when the unsub left the prison, when they found out that he had been cured, that he had received treatment when he had a relationship with him and it lasted for a good few years, they asked the President to exercise the right of grace - not against murderers, bandits, whom he pardoned many times, three times more often President Komorowski, and even more often President Kwasniewski, e.g. the killers, contrary to the opinions of the courts and prosecutors - to repeat, the President has exercised the right of grace against the perpetrator who has carried out the entire penalty, from the first day to the last day, who has carried out the same majority of the criminal measure prohibiting him from contacting these women, because this measure has been decided in their interest, only in their interest, for a period of six years, and it has been five years. And they asked for it to happen. Where was the Justice Fund? Mr President, after long consideration, after the opinion of the Court of First Instance - you say that you respect independent courts - after the opinion of the Court of Second Instance - that you respect courts in the Republic of Poland... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Madame, I ask you to remain calm. ...after curators' opinions, after psychologists' opinions, finally after the Attorney General's opinion, he took advantage of these women... Those women didn't have any money for a roof over their head. She threatened to evict them. ...to the victims of the law of grace in such a way that he reduced the time by one year only, allowing contact with these persons. Madame, you are interfering with the proceedings. Well, these women - it is best to give them a voice after what you have done to them, and what you have done to these women - have written an extremely moving letter and their words say much more than many facts that I could yet recall. Namely, they said: We are very grateful to President Andrzej Duda for giving us a chance to live a normal and peaceful life. How can you guarantee it won't happen again? What kind of warranty? Shame! Everything indicated that this was going to happen until last week. Lying. We did not expect that our right to a decent life and to separate ourselves from the dramatic and sad past would be so ruthlessly broken and used for a dirty political campaign. Shame and shame! Women to women. Shame on you! Who do you think these ladies are thinking of? The publication of the journal "Facts" fell on us like thunder from the clear sky. No one asked us anything before her - reliability, right? - he didn't say. Nobody tried to get our opinion. In a brutal way, our entire family has been branded. No one ever wondered how much we've suffered in our lives. Ha, ha, ha! Yes, we've suffered. I'm talking to the ladies. What are you laughing at? How can you not be ashamed? Are you laughing at what these women say? Where's your sensitivity? Where's the heart? Where's the empathy? What are you laughing at? How can you not be ashamed? What does it mean to be a victim of this kind of crime? We just wanted to forget about the past... Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Member! Are you laughing at the suffering of other women? Scandalous. Feminists. ...and start a new life. Today we do not know - these women say to you, to the ladies, to the messengers - what will be next with us, whether we can live peacefully or by means of a mark... Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz! Ma'am, I'm asking you to remain calm. You had time to make your speech. A pedophile's victim doesn't... You're interfering with the House's deliberations. ...by the ruthless, I repeat, by the ruthless and evil people we will be deprived forever of happiness and peace. Journalists - these ladies add - and politicians, politicians, including Members, do not have the right to act this way, they do not have the right to destroy the psyche of ordinary people in this way. That's how these women feel because of you guys. The Justice Fund. The Justice Fund. I could give you a lot of data from the Justice Fund here, but this is a knee shot, Madame. It's not just a shame to go underground. The words of these women, the words I quote here, are addressed directly, among others. It's for you. The Justice Fund was in your hands, and at the time it was his job to help these women. After all, crimes were committed from the end of 2007 to 2011. After all, criminal proceedings have taken place since 2011 and a final judgment has taken place in 2014. Was I the minister of justice then? Did I supervise the Justice Fund? Was it the United Right, or was it the Platform and the PSL? [[Applause]] Why didn't you help these women? Where have you been? Where's your empathy? I'll tell you. Because the money was going... You know where they were going. Question for Gouvin. Ask people like Mr. Gawłowski, Mr. Pinior. You'll find out where they were going. And you probably have more friends like that. Thieves! Only now, in our day, is the Justice Fund really doing its job. This year, contrary to the media narrative and demagogical statements that we can hear, meant to the victims of crimes in Poland that we have allocated PLN 70 million to the creation of more than 350 points of assistance to victims of crime throughout Poland. But do you know what it was like in your time in 2012? You guys are so worried about crime victims. That was PLN 1.5 million. I'm not surprised. For the whole country, for the whole year - 1,5 million PLN compared to 73, almost 74 million PLN. Do you see the difference? You can also see the difference in the actions of the prosecution in your time and in ours, it is about the speed of action, but also the results in many matters, the effects in the form of taking over assets. Do you know what the value of the assets of bandits and criminals seized by your prosecution and services in 2012 was? What was the amount? A hundred and tens of millions. And do you know how much this is about the value of the secured property in her account that the D.A.'s office finished last year? Almost PLN 4 billion. 4 billion zlotys compared to 100 tens of millions. [[Applause]] The least in Europe. Do you see the difference? These differences we can give many, they are eloquent. The facts speak for themselves. Shame on you. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u334	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. You're welcome, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u335	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You like to say and claim, in your conclusions, that the courts have been politicized, that judgments have been politicized. Give at least one example of politicizing a judge, a court or some sort of judgment. I'm not asking for 50 examples. I'm not even asking for five. Give me one example. Yes, sir. Quiet! You guys aren't talking? You can't. So much for politics. [[Applause]] Bravo! Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the recovery of justice, very short statistics should be used, including data from the beginning of free Poland. Well, there is a very good example: the German Democratic Republic. This was the place where the judges and prosecutors were verified and examined after communist times. Do you know how many were left behind? Okay. 30%. And that, I think, is the right number. [[Applause]] Around 30% of the prosecutors and about 30% of the judges were left in East Germany. We've got 100% left. Prosecutors and 100% Judges. Like Peterovich. Like a friend of Piotrowicz's. And that is why today - I am jumping to the present day - the reform of the justice system that Minister Ziobro has undertaken, which is really difficult and tedious, but is moving at the right pace, in the right way. [[Game in the O.R.]] Silence, Prime Minister speaking. We're trying to fix the justice system. To expose his weaknesses, it is best to mention a few things. One of the judges used to do usury. He was harassing his own - I don't even know what to call it, ladies and gentlemen - clients, harassing poor people. And what happened to him in the days of the Third Republic? Well, you're laughing at it, but he's fine. Even though he was harassing them, he didn't even face disciplinary action, because in 2016 everything expired. Another example. One man who was disabled stole - so to speak - from the store a bar worth PLN 1. He was convicted by a court, fined, reduced freedom. When another person paid that fine, the court also punished that other person for this unacceptable act. This is a law that is strong for the weak. These are the judges of the Third Republic who are strong for the weak and forgiving for the criminals, [[Applause]] As in Zamość, where in front of the mother and children of two men killed a man of less than 40 years old with a blunt instrument. They were sentenced to a death sentence of 4 and 5 years. Scandal! This is the law that was previously applied and applied to this day by judges. That is why Minister Ziobro is making attempts, which I fully support, tightening the Penal Code, tightening penalties for the worst criminals, for the worst crimes, premeditated. In this direction It's time to go, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]] The Constitutional Tribunal. Inevitability of punishment. The courts work slower, the D.A.'s office works slower. Mrs... You want the law to be the law of the stronger, and we want the law to protect the weaker. The rule of law is then - because you like to invoke this word - the rule of law, High Izbo, is when the law protects citizens and weaker citizens more than stronger citizens, more than fraudsters. Indeed, it is enough to provide a few examples to confirm the effectiveness of the prosecution. The one that Minister Ziobro, Amber Gold, spoke of, has been waiting for over two years. Other examples - over 3 years, in the times of the Civic Platform. Now GetBack - another scandal, yes, big, very bad. Do you have any idea how long the D.A.'s office's request was made? About two months later. Masks, ventilators, SKOKs, elections. You're two years old here, and you're two months old here. You're in pain. You guys are having a hard time hearing this, aren't you? [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! In order to know the immensity of the needs of judicial reform, it is enough to reach certain judgments. But some of them actually (the bell) ridicule the justice system so much that it is probably necessary to leave the curtain of silence on them. I'm just going to say a few. Time. Not just the ones that involve the worst crimes, but for example. I'm going to talk about a court in Wrocław, which, in order to justify the judgment, copied data from a completely different case. He copied them so that he even copied personal data, address data, in the wrong way. What would you call this behavior? Or the judge who used to do usury? And Manowska and 55 grand leak. Personal information? Or a judge who molested his assistant, and got punished twice as much as $5,000. zł. And Manowska? A mark on this poor woman's soul, and here less than twice that judge's salary. And Judge Milewski in your day? Judge for errands? It's your time too. This is the justice system you want to build? And Szumowski? Interrogation on this case... Member, the Prime Minister says, listen. Please refer to the cases we know very well from the recent past, from the time the prosecution was separated from the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General. And from a time when the Attorney General after many months, and in many situations, after many years, he started proceedings when the evidence was blurred, when it was very difficult to question witnesses. There are dozens of such situations, if not hundreds, and they concern very large cases. And the great Warsaw Mafia and the people who live 130 years after 120 years? Is this the justice system you want? High Izbo! Be an opposition to the Brightest Republic of Poland, not an opposition that puts a stick in spokes even where all citizens - more than 80% - demand a reform of the justice system. The reform that... There's no reform. ...Mr. Minister of Justice, Mr. Ziobro is determined to make it happen all the time. Slowing down the D.A.'s office... Excuse me. Excuse me, Prime Minister. The Commissioner is constantly interfering with the proceedings. You interrupted the Minister, you interrupted the Prime Minister. Please, you had time to speak, insulted the High House, no one interrupted you, so please behave calmly and decently, [[Applause]] as the parliamentarians of this House are. Thank you. I had five minutes. Kara! Kara! So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter of judgment, a sphere of action for the prosecution. I would like to mention another area where I work closely with Minister Ziobra, and I am convinced that without the determination shown by the prosecutor's office, there would be some fundamental successes, successes associated with the fight against economic crime, with the VAT mafia. This is not only what Minister Ziobro was talking about, comparing 2012 and I remember the year 2015-750 million until last year, 4 billion taken away from criminals. Several times the greater amount of evidence of determination, efficiency, efficiency and professionalism of the prosecution and law enforcement authorities. These are resources, dear fellow countrymen, High Izbo, which we are dedicated to social, development, infrastructure, and these funds have previously landed in the pockets of criminals. Today they end up in citizens' pockets. [[Applause]] High Izbo! I ask you to reject the motion for a vote of distrust towards Minister Ziobra, because the Minister is trying to repair some of the most difficult areas of public, economic and social life at the same time, which are an infamous legacy of the Third Republic. The repair of the state, the repair of the justice system is also in your interest, because the Polish state, a functioning Polish state is a common good... And that'll fix Peterovich, right? ...and its improvement, its repair is in the interests of all citizens. The future of the Polish economy and the future of our homeland also depend on repairing these institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u336	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Mr Arkadiusz Myrch has asked for correction. But, sir, one minute, okay? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] On the basis of the article. 198 I could have extended the Prime Minister's speech, so please do not make such comments. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u337	Thank you very much. Minister Ziobro, I recommend reading the CBOS study you're referring to. I was just saying, the 2019 study, on page. 2 is clear graphics, the answer to the question whether Poles feel safe in their place of residence. Since 2008, approximately 90% continuously. It's on the CBOS website. Sending it back. If you don't know, fire your deputies. As for the prosecution's assessment, I'm glad you brought it up, because I can boast about it. 2008 - 44 positive, 28 negative, 2010 - positive assessments were also prevailing, 2011. - positive assessments also prevaild. Then Jarosław Gowin came, and that's your business. And with regard to the amounts seized, the amounts secured by the D.A.'s office, I'm referring to the NIK report. For 3 years - 2016, 2017, 2018 - really secured amounts, not those at the prosecutor's office's orders, but really enough (the bell) for you know how many payments from the 500+ programme? For one month. Thank you, sir. That's what the D.A.'s office secured, Prime Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u338	Thank you, sir. Before I close the discussion, Minister, I understand that it's also in the mode of correction. Yes. All right. One minute, Minister. You're welcome. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Since we are discussing research, Mr Pierce gave the result of one study, it is only somehow that Mr Pierce missed giving the results of the research on... But what makes it right? But in what mode? If he wants a parliamentary statement, it's after the vote. Your Marshal... Proceed, time is running. 15 seconds. Your marshal, the question has been answered. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Myrcha gives the results of the research, [[Game in the hall, applause]] It just forgets that research is about a lot of things. As far as the study that Mr Myrch is concerned, among others, is concerned. The question is: Do you think that Poland is a safe country? Less than 70% in 2015, currently 86. In this study, there are 86%. [[Applause]] I will provide other data from this study, which Mr Myrcha also omits, which is to be corrected... No mode on the platform. Can I go there, too? Then I'll go. ...because the public and the High House have no information that I would be happy to mention: the threat of being a victim of crime. Well, in the same survey, the respondents are asked whether they are afraid to be (the bell) victims of a crime or... Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: ...their loved ones. Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: In 2015, the Council - he's not afraid of 49... What's the mode? Time's up. Time. Thank you, Minister. We agreed for a minute. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: ... 60% at the moment. She's worried 48, now she's worried 38. It's your duty to uphold the law. Minister, thank you very much. We agreed for a minute. Thank you. The discussion is closed. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: The information I'd like to correct is more, but thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-15-sejm-14-1.u340	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 22. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 21 mins 30 hours 22]] I'm reopening the session. I would very much like to ask Members to establish a quorum after the interruption, because we will be voting in a moment. So I ask all your Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. Let me remind you, we're checking the quorum. I would like to ask Members to press any button. The meeting shall be attended by 432 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. I would like to remind you that the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens submitted a request to supplement the agenda with points: first, second and third readings: - the parliamentary draft law on aid to entrepreneurs during the duration of the epidemic threat caused by the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, prints No 278 and No 278-A, - a parliamentary bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, print No 304. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of We proceed with the vote on the proposal to consider the draft law contained in prints 278 and 278-A. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 216, 231 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the proposal to consider the draft law contained in print No 304. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 212 - for, 236 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of the Interior and Administration of Mariusz Kaminski. I remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Home Affairs and the administration of Mariusz Kaminski will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. For-- 216, against-- 233, three stopped. In the absence of the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration of Mariusz Kaminski. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] We return to item 13 on the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziebrara, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 217 - for, 232 - against, 2 stopped. In the absence of the required majority of votes, the Sejm rejected the motion to express a vote of distrust to the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobra. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 15 July this year. The meeting shall be adjourned by 16 July 2020 at the latest. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 18]]
