ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 13.30, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 16, - Health at about an hour. 19.10.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u2	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the formal proposals that are being tabled, we will proceed with the quorum confirmation at today's sitting. I therefore ask all Members present in the Chamber, in the other chambers, as well as those who are remotely connected to us, to press any button to establish quorum. You're welcome. 431 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. With a formal proposal from Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u3	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! During 30 years of free Poland there was never such a huge conflict of interest at the top of the power. The government agendas supervised by Deputy Minister of Science and Minister of Health Łukasz Szumowski granted and granted hundreds of millions of grants to family companies. Marshal Łukasz Szumowski is the creator of a new business model. Łukasz Szumowski plays the role of overseer, decision-maker and beneficiary. And the regulator. It's an old model. Mr President, I am sorry, but can I ask for a formal request? Wait a minute, Marshal. I would ask for a formal application first and then a justification for it. The result of millions of grants is an increase in the value of family companies. Ladies and gentlemen! Politically, Łukasz Szumowski walks on the minefield. His ministerial career must end. The statements are not at this point. But we want a debate here in this House about standards of public life, about honesty, about transparency, about transparency... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. ...and the wealth of politicians. I am submitting a formal request to complete the agenda for information from the President of the Council of Ministers about a giant conflict of interest in the case of Łukasz Szumowski... [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. ...as Deputy Minister of Science and Minister of Health... Mr... ...awarding grants from the National Centre for Research and Development... You're welcome... ...and the Medical Research Agency. Mr... The High House needs to know that these days another company... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u4	You're gonna... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. President, can you hear me? Can you turn your back on me? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Mr President, a formal proposal that lasts 1 minute... You've been through a lot of time, and you haven't actually filed a formal application. He put it together. So I'm asking you very much in the future to file a formal application and... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, sir... It's a break. Okay, I heard. Formal motion for a recess. Yes. Thank you very much. Please don't block the search for the truth. You asked for the floor of Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński. You're welcome. Censor Three.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u5	Dear Marshal! High Seym! There have been vile accusations here, like unwarranted accusations. Mr Szumowski is wrong, perhaps it is more than just a mistake, because Minister Łukasz Szumowski has never supervised the agencies you spoke about. If you had any orientation on this issue, you would also know that these agencies, including your governments, acted and acted in accordance with certain procedures that are transparent, accessible and fair to all. You're right now... That's the transparency? Let's see the property statements. Just don't steal. These are scandalous accusations... Excuse me, Prime Minister, I am so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your peace of mind? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: I guess you can't, unfortunately... Mr President, you do not have the floor at the moment, and I am in session, so I would very much like you to calm down. You have the floor of Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, not you, Mr Gliński. You should respond to obvious lies. Sit down, sir. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: We are just responding to obvious lies, Mr President, because these were unworthy and vile accusations. Once again, Minister Szumowski has never supervised the agendas you spoke of, and if you knew, you would know that the procedures in these agendas are transparent and fair and accessible to everyone... What about your ...and they are controlled in a civilized manner. On the other hand, your behaviour here in this House is not civilised. As for the achievements and achievements of Minister Szumowski... Besides, he's an honest man like Banas. Marshal, I'm having trouble making my point. Prime Minister... It is this country that at this moment you are giving evidence of how you really respect this House, how you respect its rules of procedure. You demand special rights for yourselves, while the speaker is for everyone. At the moment, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Polish Government is speaking, so please respect this. You're welcome, Prime Minister. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: Thank you very much, Marshal. We're just demanding that there's no censorship... Mr President, you have no voice. [[This isn't the Three, Marshal.]] Three of us don't have a vote either. He doesn't have the same voice as here in the Seym. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: This is... You have not allowed your opinion to be finished, and now the Prime Minister has left and says what he wants. Do you know the rules of procedure, Member? Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: This is what Parliament looks like with you. Prime Minister... Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: Fortunately, Poles see it, see and evaluate it in individual elections, in the latter and in the following. In those who are coming and taking place in June this year, Poles will also assess this. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] All you care about is the fights, the pusques, the innuendo, the lies, and everyone sees it. However, I would like to say something more about the person who has been attacked in an unworthy and wicked way. Yes, it was the Minister of Health Mr Łukasz Szumowski who conducted Poland during the outbreak. And I'd like to tell you that the statistics on... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is something extraordinary, Marshal. In fact, normal polemics cannot be conducted here and normal arguments can be used. Prime Minister, I guarantee you I'm watching. I'm not gonna keep reminding you forever. I'm gonna take advantage of the laws, because what you're doing is just reprehensible. This is reprehensible. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: In politics, too, you have to know how to lose. Unfortunately, you lose the election, the Poles misjudge you and therefore you can only mock, scream, insult you. What's that for? [[Applause]] The evidence needs to be shown. So I want to hand over the evidence to you. Just don't steal. This is about proof of Minister Szumowski's work on the epidemiology in Poland against the background of other countries. That's not the relationship. In fact, it doesn't make sense because these countries don't deserve to... No, Prime Minister, you're talking to people who listen to us right now. But no one listens to you anymore, Marshal. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: Excuse me. Please... Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage Piotr Gliński: Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u6	Thank you. With a formal application. Ladies and gentlemen, you are waving the constitution, waving the rules only when it's convenient for you. We're not waving, we're observing. In this House, the rules of procedure apply to everyone. The Marshal of the Sejm shall give the floor to the representative of the government at any time when he shall ask for the floor, and that is the right that Prime Minister Gliński has benefited from. That's one thing. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, personal culture requires that anyone who is on this platform may be heard. In Trinity... Your colleague submitted a formal application, which was actually not a formal application, and had an extended period of time. The deputy prime minister of the Polish government wanted to answer. Your behavior is really a sign of you. If this is to be the case, we will not pay attention to you because this is an attempt to stir up a fight. You are not acting like Members in this House. Your marshal insults us. Your Marshal... Mr President, I am so sorry, but I have not given you the floor. I'm asking you to sit down. A formal conclusion, I hope, will be made by Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left. You're welcome. One minute, sir. First, I'd like a formal application, then a justification.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u7	Yes, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm I submit a formal application on behalf of the left club for an adjournment, the convening of the Seniors Convention and the completion of the agenda by two very important points for us. Namely today, a draft law on the so-called law will be considered. The fourth anti-crisis shield, the fourth shield, which, in our opinion, primarily restricts workers' rights, while the Leży club submitted in the Polish Parliament a draft of the Law on Crisis Witnessing and we would like, since we are discussing Shield No. 4, to discuss also this project which the Left Club submitted. And the other thing. We would also ask that information be included on the agenda of today's sitting of the Sejm on the Minister of Justice's action against pedophilia offences, including the pedophilia bell by clergymen, taken in 2015. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u8	Thank you, sir. We talked about this at the Convention meeting. These conclusions have not been taken into account. Here you go, with a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. Mr Krzysztof Bosak is standing at the entrance to the kuluars not allowed by the Marshal's Guard. But he doesn't have to stand at the entrance, sir, he can enter a room where there's a remote connection. I understand there's no formal application. Please pass this on to the subordinate of the guard who detained the Member. In that case, ladies and gentlemen, there was a formal request for a break, and there were two identical applications, which is actually one. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Member of the Parliament of the Republic, was detained by the Marshal's Guard. Please allow him to make a formal request. Mr President, there is a parity in this House, and you are all... [[Mr Krzysztof Bosak is a representative of the Confederation)]] Don't yell at me, sir. There are quotas. Your representatives have broken these parities. On what legal basis? On what basis are these quotas? On the basis of a resolution adopted by the Sejm concerning... Where is it in the rules, where in the constitution? Not in the Constitution, just find it in the Rules of Procedure. Please do not prevent the submission of a formal application to Mr Bosak. We will vote first for a formal request for a break that has passed. We proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the vote. You just said we should get out of here. We'll be right there, sir. For now... Mr Krzysztof Bosak, whose name was mentioned by the marshal... We'll proceed with the vote. There's been a request for a recess. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of a request for a recess... Your Marshal, please give Mr Krzysztof Bosak time to come to the room and make a request there. There'll be a formal motion from the room. Tell your friend to come through. But they're being filled... They are not fulfilled by the state. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a break, please press the button. If the Members of the Law and Justice do not want to go to the Sejm, then at least increase... Only the Confederate have you reduced... Who's against it? Who's holding back? Your marshal, as suggested by the Marshal's Guard, we're going to replace the hostages. We did it. Bounced. 439 Members voted. 216 - for, 223 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. With a formal proposal from Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation. There you go. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u9	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The French and Germans are now pushing for a plan to create an EU reconstruction fund, in which not richer ones will help the poor, but, attention, it is Poland and other countries of the new Union that will start financing Southern Europe. Poland would be the most burdened country. We're supposed to bring almost 2% to the fund. GDP. Germany, for comparison, would bring slightly more than 0,5% GDP. Austria, the Netherlands, Denmark, Sweden have already objected. Meanwhile, our government is silent and humbly waiting for Brussels to decide. Poland should be the first opponent of this bandit project. I am making a formal request for the Sejm to adopt a resolution obliging the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki to actively fight this attempt to rob Poles or to resign from the Prime Minister's office if he lacks the courage to oppose unfavourable projects within the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u10	Thank you, sir. This, of course, is not a formal conclusion. And the last formal proposal, Mr Piotr Zgorzelski, Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15. Please, Marshal. Your marshal, I volunteered...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we celebrate the Day of the Territorial Government. The Sejm Bureau is working on a resolution on this issue. Meanwhile, the draft law contained in print No. 382 was sent to the Polish Sejm of the Republic, which significantly restricts Polish self-government, because at the request of the head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. at the request of an official, it will be possible to fire local staff, as well as to terminate their posts and lower the local government officials' appointments. Such a gift on the 30th anniversary of the adoption of local government is simply a scandal... Scandal! ...because it is a violation of the autonomy of the government, that segment of the state, for which in the opinion of all, both [[♪ The bell ♪]] workers, as well as citizens, reform is considered to be the best. I ask you, Your Marshal, to do so, to take a break so that we may ask the Prime Minister, and even ask him to withdraw from these scandalous rules. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u12	Thank you, Marshal. You asked Deputy Prime Minister Jadwiga Emilevich to speak on this matter. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! Thank you very much for paying attention to this important day which Polish democracy is celebrating today. Indeed, 30 years ago the first fully free elections took place in the post-war history of Poland. Local government reform is clearly still considered as one of the best reforms made after 1989 in Poland. We are happy about it, we are proud of it, and we feel co-founders of these reforms that have been carried out within the local government. I am also pleased that today we will be discussing and discussing another law within the framework of the so-called. a shield in which some of the relevant records relate precisely to local authorities. It is for these local governments that we have prepared solutions that will make it easier for them to go through a difficult period of pandemic. They relate primarily to financial support. This law also includes provisions on the scope of labour law. It would probably be appropriate if you wanted to read the whole of this law. Yesterday, the government adopted an adjustment, which refers to freedom of access in the public finance sector, but only to central institutions. Self-government institutions like this... Here there will be no possibility of breaking de facto any rule concerning this and the possibility for the President of the Council of Ministers to interfere with the duties and work of local authorities. So the bill's basically... I repeat once again: I am glad that today we will be discussing it, just in the 1930s, because we have, I think, some good information, worked out together with the Polish Cities Union, the Union of Polish Metropolises, a union of towns, for which local governments are waiting very much. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u14	Thank you, Prime Minister. Formal proposal - Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! There are so many words about democracy, human rights, the constitution, and civil rights in Poland today are drastically limited by the non-constitutional ban on assembly and through unlawful, criminal and excessive action by the police and state services. Therefore, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, we ask that the agenda be supplemented by information from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration of Mr Mariusz Kaminski in order to clarify the police's activities in recent weeks. We are talking about violating the immunity of a Member and a Senator, we are talking about violence against demonstrators, we are talking about unfairly high penalties, for example for participating in funerals and actions later, symbolically commemorating a 16-year-old girl murdered in Konstancin. We are talking about arresting people who sometimes stand alone and protest about legitimisation without grounds, excessive measures of repression. Such things should not happen in a democratic state of law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We expect Mariusz Kaminski to explain why the police are breaking the principles of a democratic rule of law. We therefore ask for changes to the agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u16	Thank you, Member. These matters were discussed both at the Convention and at the Bureau and were not included on the agenda of this meeting of the Sejm. That's too bad. Mr Kierwiński - the last proposal. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your Marshal, request to you, request a formal motion to change the course of the proceedings. We're talking about very important things. Mr Szczerba asked about the great scandal, the affair of Minister Szumowski: almost PLN 200 million were transferred to the family of Minister Szumowski under strange circumstances. And that's a conspiracy. What do we get in return? Prime Minister Gliński comes out and tells peany what a great minister Mr Szumowski is. We don't want to listen, and the public I don't want to hear Mr. Gliński's ideas about how great a colleague from the government is because, to be perfectly honest, the moral testimonies of his colleagues... And the public I don't want to hear your lies. ...from this government, I don't think they mean much. We want to know, Prime Minister, from you, perhaps from Prime Minister Morawiecki, perhaps from Minister Kaminski, what you are doing to fight this issue. It's not enough to say nothing happened. Poles won't fall for that anymore. We know we're dealing with guys, nepotism, maybe more serious crimes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's time for you to go out to that podium and I ask you to take this House seriously, seriously. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u18	Thank you, sir. Mr President, there is no formal request to change the way in which the proceedings are held, so I will not put this to the vote. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law on bank loan interest payments to ensure liquidity for entrepreneurs affected by the effects of COVID-19 and on amending certain other laws (prints No. 382 and 382-A). I ask the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Development, Mrs Jadwiga Emilewicz, to present the reasons for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present to you a draft law on the payment of bank loans granted for the provision of liquidity to operators affected by the effects of COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain other laws. We are aware that the world is facing an unprecedented crisis, a crisis that affects all areas of economic activity, where the monetary and fiscal policy response instruments known so far appear insufficient. Poland, as one of the first Member States of the European Union, has taken very decisive steps to keep as many jobs as possible, secondly, to facilitate and maintain the heart rate of the Polish economy, i.e. to keep the number of companies on the market, both small and medium-sized, micro-enterprises and those large, thirdly, to make it possible, to facilitate the smooth running of this business. All actions so far seem to have an expected and satisfactory effect, as the data show. More than 46 billion zlotys have already been sent directly to entrepreneurs. Over 1.5 million companies are maintained on the market, several hundred thousand jobs are maintained. After the first month, in the first assumptions regarding the rise in unemployment, we made a correction, and it was a positive adjustment. We have a lower level of registration for people at work offices than we expected. Similarly, the prospects for ending this year for the Polish economy seem to be extremely optimistic at this very difficult time. According to statistics, according to data from the European Investment Bank, Poland is likely to end this year with the least loss from all Member States. By providing this data, I do not believe that this is sufficient reason for us to settle on laurels so that we do not take further action, hence this draft law, which I am pleased to present to you today. The project, which is important, although we are still working in an extraordinary way, was actively consulted with the social side and with the local government. All those concerned had the opportunity to comment on the matter and to make the necessary corrections and corrections to it. I am therefore firmly convinced that this is a good piece of legislation and I will ask the High House to adopt this law today and not to delay working on this project in order to deliver these solutions to the market as soon as possible. We're aware of that. Like I said, today is a special day, it's 30 years old. Self-government in Poland is the anniversary of the first free elections after 1945, very important because the exchange of national councils for communal councils, real, local government, selected really and democratically, really established, created real foundations for democratic reforms in Poland. We are aware that today the fight against the pandemic is also a challenge for local self-government units. It should be emphasized that local government units are fighting against COVID-19, not only providing solutions, not only ensuring the safety of residents of Polish municipalities, cities and towns, but also registering real losses, just as the state budget records tax shortfalls due to PIT, CIT taxes. This has a similar effect on the budgets of local governments. The reduced revenue from local fees is also becoming a huge challenge for local governments. We are aware that the COVID has been affected by almost all industries. Transport, tourism, gastronomic industry - these are the ones that were on the front line of the fight against pandemic. But today there is virtually no industry that does not deal with problems, with difficulties caused by liquidity problems, with deterioration of the financial results of companies. This will therefore be a particularly difficult time. We know well that today the provision of easy, simple turnover credits will also be a challenge for companies for months in terms of their repayment. Hence the further liquidity solutions that we provide here. As part of the solutions prepared by us (The Bell)... We provide solutions for interest subsidies for those borrowers who have borrowed liquidity loans during the pandemic. Today, as part of the new fund, the Payment Fund for the Percentage of the Bank of National Farms... This fund, amounting to about PLN 600 million, will support entrepreneurs in fulfilling their credit obligations, will be used to pay interest. The second important topic. We are aware that today the liquidity of public procurement is also very important. There are many entities that have lost liquidity and which are in the process of making important investments, both smaller, smallest, small and large municipalities. We do not want these investments not to be completed. That is why we are introducing a number of facilitations in the area of public procurement law. We're abolishing the obligation to pay the security deposit. We impose an obligation on the contracting authority to pay advances in certain specified values. We therefore facilitate the implementation process. We abolish the obligation to impose contractual penalties if the contractor could not complete the contract precisely because he faced the challenges caused by the pandemic, for example. has lost some of the employees or has problems with the delivery necessary to carry out the order he has undertaken. The project also contains provisions aimed at ensuring that both borrowers and lenders have clear and transparent rules for the use of so-called. It's a loan vacation. We know that today many households are also in serious liquidity problems. Many of these holdings have borrowings, many of them have mortgage loans. We introduce clear and statutory rules on the possibility of taking credit vacations for those in difficulty where the borrower, if married, lost his job as a result of COVID. Then such holidays will be due under the law. We are also introducing solutions to counteract the possibility of taking over companies, family Polish companies, which have built their market position in the last 30 years, and today their stock market valuation is very low. We are aware that investment funds coming from outside the European Union, the European Economic Area, can become and are of interest. We would not like to see the brands we like fall out of the Polish market today. It's too much effort, too much work, too much responsibility. That's why we're putting in place rules that will make it impossible to take over such companies. The agreement to raise capital will have to be notified by the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. In this law we also introduce a catalogue of fields, a catalogue of industries that we consider to be strategic industries. We extend this catalogue: from the previously known catalogue related to energy and defence to the one that we painfully reviewed in the first weeks of the pandemic. In the first weeks of the pandemic, the question of safety was about masks, protective clothing or tests. These were questions about food and the security of information systems. Such a broader catalogue of entities is therefore also included in this Act. We are also introducing rules to facilitate or increase the possibility of continuing to maintain jobs in businesses. We extend the possibility of using parking and wage subsidies, which we introduced on 1 April this year, for entrepreneurs who do not want to reduce the working time of their employees - because it is impossible because they have continuous production, 24-hour production prevents the reduction of working time - but who face real economic problems, who register the decline in turnover, the one we set up in April: 15% year to year and 25% month to month 2020 At that time, such entrepreneurs will also be able to benefit from the parking and wage subsidies if they are faced with economic difficulties. We also make it easier for entrepreneurs to use late leave. I will not agree with the suggestion made by one of the Members who said here earlier that we are introducing rules against workers. These provisions have been consulted with the employee and the employee party has agreed in a responsible manner to the provisions we have proposed. Any such reduction... at the meeting of the Social Dialogue Council the solidarity party said, too the OPZZ said that, since it is possible, it is agreed that this parking period should be extended to 12 months only if the entrepreneur is dealing with the problem and when the representative bodies of the employees agree to do so. Such records are in this bill. For us, the value is jobs in the conditions in which we are. We have been saying from the beginning, and the working party understands that today we are in a situation where these half steps must be carried out by each of us: public administration, entrepreneurs and employees. In order to protect jobs, in order to maintain the economic heart rate safe for the labour market we introduce here. We are also introducing a number of facilitations for local government. As I said today, this year will be a very difficult year for local governments when it comes to the balance sheet. We therefore introduce in 2020 the possibility of an imbalance of the current budget of local government units in addition to the value of the planned loss in income resulting from the outbreak of the COVID-19 epidemic. We mitigate in 2020 the fiscal rule limiting debt by the amount of actual loss in the tax income of individuals resulting from the outbreak of the COVID-19 epidemic. We are also introducing the possibility to transfer the education, compensatory, balancing and regional general subsidies in advance this year. As a result, the cities in Poland will receive this subsidy in June. In the case of Warsaw it will be over PLN 100 million, and in the case of smaller cities it will be several dozen, several tens of millions of PLN transferred to local governments already in June. And they're losing billions. We are also introducing the possibility of transferring payments to the state budget by individuals with above-average tax revenues for the following months. We're talking about the so-called. It's janosic. We're moving them to a post-vacation period. Units will be able to regulate this in the second half of 2020. We also increase the revenue of the district government for the management of the property of the State Treasury - from 25 to 50%. Not every fourth, but every second dollar from the property management fees of the State Treasury will remain in the budget of the district government. We also make spending from so-called spending more flexible in 2020. It's a cork fund. This means that about 800 million PLN will remain at the disposal of municipal and voivodship authorities, because they are the owners of this fund, and this year they will be able to use these funds to combat the effects of the pandemic. We also cover part of the costs associated with issuing decisions on construction conditions by increasing the tax charge for issuing this decision for persons other than the owner or the perpetual user - the change requested by local governments for a very long time is introduced in this law. We also extend the deadline for achieving a minimum number of CNG charging and refueling points, because in this situation it would be an additional burden for local governments. We also make it possible to continue to prepare infrastructure investments, including construction projects, by digitising planning procedures. If we are talking about the positive effects of a pandemic, then certainly the digitalisation of many administrative processes is such a result, and in terms of investment processes, I dare say, it will be one of the major positive revolutions for which local governments have been waiting. We are also introducing the possibility of one-sided temporary change of tasks carried out by a worker to date by a governor, mayor or president, including the president of the city on the rights of the county. It is expected that at this time, when some workers do not work, because they are taking care of children, local governments can flexibly regulate the stream of workers, e.g. strengthen the labour offices, which today become one of the most important links in the fight against the pandemic and which may not be able to cope, do not work as quickly and efficiently as we would like, perhaps because there are not enough workers in them. We are therefore giving local authorities the opportunity to move employees to the need to strengthen staff units of local government today. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] We're on our way to the end. A number of additional facilities for local authorities have been included in this Act. I am convinced that this will not only enable local governments to carry out their statutory duties, but also enable them to carry out planned investments. We are aware that the continuation of these investments gives us the chance to exit the pandemic under the conditions that national and foreign economists are talking about today. I hope that today this law will be the subject of, and at the next session of the Sejm, good, constructive discussions, and I kindly ask the High House to accept these solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u20	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I now ask the floor of Mr Wiesław Janczyk, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club with regard to the draft law on bank loan interest payments to ensure the liquidity of operators affected by the effects of COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain other laws, print No 382, together with the self-correction contained in print No 382-A. I must admit that I have welcomed the fact that there will be a product that will allow entrepreneurs to maintain their liquidity, because, in fact, we had a very difficult situation after the government's decisions, many entities who were obliged to cease their activities because of the safety of people who could potentially use their services and put everyone at risk of the avalanche spread of the outbreak of Coronavirus COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen! It seems that, as for discretionary steps, it was one of which economic areas would be excluded to a greater extent and who would be able to continue business and who would be able to continue with the government's decision, political decision, but also the decision resulting from the restrictions, recommendations of the World Health Organisation or the Minister of Health, this business would have to run on a smaller scale or completely disable it... I am talking here about industries such as tourism, such as hoteling, like restauranting, like recreation in many cases, but also transport, trade, clothing, etc. Today, the Prime Minister said that the government's aid as equivalent to those socially acceptable and recognised actions, due to concerns about the spread of the virus in Poland as well as in many other countries, especially neighbouring countries, has already reached the amount of 46 billion directly involved as a result of these courageous political decisions. Today we will proceed with a document that the Prime Minister has discussed in detail. He is very extensive, dealing with dozens of changes, expected, discussed in communication with local governments, with entrepreneurs, with employees, with organizations. And that's good news. But above all, the fact of subsidies for revolving, renewable, non-renewable loans, which, in my opinion, will keep ownership in many entities. There will be no unnecessary disinheritance of owners from their assets by the loss of liquidity that has occurred as a result of the events we have been talking about. In this sense, the transfer of the amount of PLN 567 million during the year and the year of the next one, held by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, to financial institutions, to banking institutions, as well as the change of the rigors of the law - Bank law... It is about including in taking credit decisions and counting the risk parameters resulting from the transfer of money to loans, to bank loans with the provisions of this law, the proposal of a fact which will allow credit analysts to calculate risk in such a way that they can close the failure of an entrepreneur, industry and business in a certain time interval and, however, make a positive credit decision, which would be completely impossible without this law, would exclude the power to make available to the bank. So that this regulation, but also a number of others, I think, follows these so-called systematic actions. three anti-crisis shields, which in fact directed the aid of 10% GDP to entrepreneurs, to the economy and saved hundreds of thousands of jobs. That's a fact. I remember how at the beginning of the crisis everyone claimed that unemployment in Poland would rise to 10%. Today we have a reading of this scale of unemployment, suffering from anyone who has lost their jobs at 5.8%. That's 966,000. unemployed people and 2 million were expected. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this document, which has been worked fairly. I think that any additional comments will be heard in the course of further work in the Committee on Public Finance, or amendments will still be tabled. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the coalition of Poland will address Mr Dariusz Rosati. The Civic Coalition. I'm so sorry about the mistake. Member, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u23	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! You are presenting us with another shield and you want to give us the impression that this is another, fourth programme for the Polish economy, for Polish entrepreneurs, while what we are actually dealing with at the moment is a document that counts 91 pages, of which only 9 pages concern the Act on interest subsidies for loans, and practically all the rest are amendments to previous shields, which in fact we do not have a fourth shield, but we only have one hole shield, which you constantly patch. One example: the famous art. 15 with zzz letters is changed 13 or 14 times. In general, the entire COVID-owska Act is amended 42 times. When we previously discussed shield 3 and shield 2, we had similar actions. Ladies and gentlemen! We just can't work like this. I propose that the government simply think about it, prepare some meaningful law that really addresses all these important problems, and not every two weeks comes to the Sejm with a law that counts 100 pages, gives us 24 hours, demands that we adopt this law, and then in two weeks comes with another law. Mr. Marshal! I would ask you to place my request to Marshal Witek, so that your Marshal may finally stand up to the task and, in accordance with the law, defend the rights and dignity of this House. [[Applause]] We're not a voting machine, or at least this opposition part doesn't want to be a voting machine. We want to have time to work on this document, ladies and gentlemen. You're just completely ignoring us. And the needy will wait. Member, don't bother me. No, you're just ignoring us. Please do not interfere with the speaker's speech. You're just ignoring us. If you'd given us a little more time with the first shield, maybe you wouldn't have had to take any more shields: the third, the fourth, the fifth. I don't know when you're gonna bring another shield to ask the Sejm to accept these other proposals in 24 hours. It's just patching holes, not coming to help. As we look at the financial dimension of this shield, it is very disappointing, because the scale of the aid, in terms of interest payments for loans, is in the order of PLN 580 million, i.e. PLN 0.5 billion. Even against the background of previous shields, which together amount to transfers of about PLN 50 billion, it is just a drop in the sea of needs. And now I have a question for you: On what basis do you think that this grant project will actually bring benefits and relief to entrepreneurs? Where do we analyze the effectiveness and efficiency of previous shields? We would like to know whether and to what extent banks actually lend to all those entrepreneurs who are currently in need. We want to know how the money you've already started has been used. We want to find out why bank lending is falling instead of growing. And we want to know on what basis do you think that 1 percentage point of relief for large companies and 2 percentage points for small companies will actually bring about a change in the behaviour of banks that simply do not want to give credit in a crisis. I would like to get answers to all these questions. Wouldn't it be better to just think about credit guarantees? Perhaps this would encourage banks to lend more liquidity. Of course, the worst drawback of this project is that it does not show in any way that this new proposal will actually help companies. We already have preliminary assessments of the Polish Bank Association and employers' relationships, which indicate a lot of risks and a lot of dangers associated with this shield. On the occasion of this fourth shield, as I said, 3/4 or even 4/5 changes are changes in 40 other laws, often very far from the main topic. One of the most appalling changes is the one mentioned earlier by your marshal, who gives the Prime Minister the right to simply reduce employment in local governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask myself: What does this have to do with the interest rate on the loans? [[Applause]] Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! For the sake of legislative sloppyness, because you persist in putting us in a situation where we are not able to do our parliamentary duties properly, the Platform's parliamentary club will vote against this project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u24	Thank you very much for presenting the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. Mr Zandberg, who will make a statement on behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u25	High Izbo! This discussion was supposed to be about bank loans, Prime Minister, but I think you've got the wrong title of the bill because that's where the peanuts are. If you were honest, you'd call it a law to push the cost of the economic crisis on the workers, because it's de facto what this law is. The Prime Minister missed the truth, talking about union support, because OPZZ, the Workers' Initiative, Alternative and practically all true trade unions in Poland are protesting against this law. You will probably recall the opinion of the yellow trade unions you work with, but most trade unions have a fairly clear opinion on this: this is an anti-work law. For the past few days, I've heard that the government has been telling me that it will now introduce a new normality. In this bill we finally got the answer to what this new normality is. Well, this new normality is simply a permanent reduction in wages. I have heard from Members of the PiS before, among others. Here sitting that it's just for the time of the epidemic. Well, it's not just for the time of the epidemic. Read this bill carefully. The epidemic will end, we'll forget about quarantine and masks long ago, and every month the employees' accounts will continue to be affected by a reduced salary, cut off under the pretext of an epidemic. This is the way you are preparing the future of Polish workers at this moment. On the one hand, the prices that go up, on the other hand the salaries that go down. This isn't an anti-crisis bill. This is a law that in practice means ruin for thousands of Polish families. Ladies and gentlemen, you said you'd defend jobs. So far, 150,000. jobs are already gone. Without a job, it is estimated that 1 million Poles. This is just the beginning. Practically every day, Prime Minister, I get calls from other trade union organizations in the following sectors: automotive industry, furniture production, common services centers, transport. There's one piece of information everywhere: group release. Besides, we told you to make a hard addiction, really, not fictitiously, to help the government with the ban on redundancies. You didn't listen, and now it's starting to work. Everyone's afraid they're next in line to get fired. What's the government doing in this situation? The government in this situation makes it even easier to release. In this bill, you send this signal to companies: slow down as much as you can, it'll be cheaper. You're changing the law to make it cheaper to kick people out of work to make it worth your while. And unfortunately, this is the only idea you have at all to deal with the crisis: take the workers away. So you're taking it. You cut your salaries, you take your holidays under the pear tree, you take the leftovers of the social worker, you lower your checks. What's most scandalous, those who lose their jobs, and these people count in tens of thousands, you leave them on the ice. You haven't found time in three months, Minister Kowalczyk, to raise scandalously low unemployment benefits. I remind you that maybe you've forgotten that most of those people who don't have a job aren't entitled to benefits right now. And neither in the first shield, nor in the second shield, nor in the third shield, nor in the fourth shield, have you given them anything. This is the place where a real shield is needed, where real protection is needed for the weakest. We even wrote this bill for you, the Crisis Witness Act, we filed it, she's in the Sejm, she's got a print number, you just can't even vote her out. Poles are patient, so they patiently endured it, because you promised that it is only for a moment that we will return to normality, but now you say that it is a new normality that we are to get used to these poor wages, that we are to get used to high unemployment. I read this bill, and I was wondering if you remember why you got the power. Minister, don't read, just remember if you remember again, because I remember. I remember the previous government threw the cost of the crisis on ordinary people, and then he said there was a green island. That's when you criticized them, and that's right. You said they were shutting down schools, you said you were blowing up, you said they were making stupid savings for which we would pay for the quality of public services, and now you're really doing the same thing. On the basis of this law, it will be possible to release and cut salaries anywhere in the budget. It's not an anti-crisis program, it's a recipe for disaster. I am surprised at the Members who are drawn from the Solidarity that they are ready to raise their hand for something like this. On your government television - sometimes I watch it - it's always heard that Tusk did this or Tusk did that, so maybe it's time someone told you: now you're doing exactly what Donald Tusk was doing then, now you're asking me to pay the bill for the crisis to ordinary people. A lot of things had to change, as you can see, to keep things the same. I'm waiting for your finance minister, this phantom man who doesn't show up, to finally go on TV and say there's no money and there won't be - because I think that's the last difference that's left. Every government leaves something behind. Tusk left roads and stadiums and trash cans. After Beata Szydło - the destroyed Constitutional Court, but also, you have to admit, program 500+. And after you have a salary program?, after you are cut, there will be an increase in unemployment, there will be an increase in poverty. The only thing I'm curious about is what your constituents, the people you promised you'd be pro-social, and who are now looking at how you agree to be fired, how you agree to cut wages. This anti-working bill is only suitable for one place: a basket. The coalition club of the Left, of course, will not raise its hand either for mass layoffs (the Bell) or for cutting wages or for throwing people out of work. We're filing a motion to your marshal to reject this law at first reading. Take it easy, stop doing anti-work politics, or you'll pay a huge price for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u26	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by the President of Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is the 84th day since the first case of Coronavirus was diagnosed in Poland. In February, you said you were ready for anything. You lied to patients and doctors, you lied to employees and employers, you lied to farmers and local governments. Today, you're coming with another display of the shield. At this rate, if we present further versions of the anti-crisis shields, in six months it will be thirteen and in twenty-sixth year. There are countries where one solution has been adopted, it works, it works much better. You guys keep changing and adding more red tape. 35 laws - from the Law on Measurements to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Who's gonna confess? The owner of the steel mill? Hairdresser? Who did you prepare this for? For the next ten lawyers who will translate it from yours into human, into a normal language that every person will understand? What happened on March and April? Because it's such a delight, as it's wonderful, again these stories of strange content, vaseline at hours. 7:30 p.m., [[Applause]] And that's how it's gonna be all year long until the election. Maybe after the election you can finally tell the truth, though I don't think so. My dears! What happened? A decrease in industrial production by 25%. A decrease in retail sales by 22%. The decline in turnover in the first quarter, not only in April, but in the first quarter, in shopping malls, sales, by 21%. It's less than 153,000. persons employed in April. These are facts. That's the data. This is the scale of the drama that today affects the Polish economy, Polish workers and Polish entrepreneurs. It was supposed to be a bazooka against the virus, and you turned the bazooka against the workers and local government. You're not helping. Mr Zandberg spoke about the part of the workforce, and I will talk a lot about the local authorities. What needs to be done Are you still on the economics side? Firstly, the release of trade on Sundays by the end of the year if there is such sale if sales so decreased. Of course. In the clothing industry, sales dropped by 2/3 in April. We have to unfreeze the trade on Sunday. Second thing. VAT refund. We asked, Prime Minister, as I like you, how many times we asked for a quicker VAT refund at the first meetings with Prime Minister Morawiecki. Two months of entrepreneurs are waiting for this and nothing. You don't do anything about it, because I don't know, you don't want to do it. You have this vision of suspecting everyone. 99% Polish entrepreneurs are the most honest people. If there is 1% Black sheep, that's getting that 1%. Black sheep, not suspect 99% honest Polish entrepreneurs who give jobs. You can't do that. Here's another thing. We must also make changes in the case of local governments, but what you have proposed is hypocrisy, these statements today, as you are defenders of local governments and worshipers of the idea of self-determination. The hypocrites and the Pharisees. [[Applause]] Over the past years, you have taken the competences of local authorities: environmental protection, regional environmental funds, impact on agricultural advice, tourism, matters related to drainage and water management. You've even taken an opinion from health professionals at the county level. The mayor and the mayor have much less influence on the school. What's this? This is a clear violation of the principle of subsidiarity, i.e. the surrender of competences close to the citizen. This is a denial of direct democracy. And today, you're calling yourselves self-government singers, talking about these 30 years, and you're proud of it? You guys have humiliated this government in the last few years. You've led me to believe that as well as financial inheritances... Now some data for April, March: PIT income drops - 40% , decrease in CIT revenues - 30%. Plus, there's a load you put on. You didn't compensate for the loss of government revenue when you adopted the new laws. You didn't give me that compensation. And what happens to the subsidy? Education subsidy today is a drop in those educational expenditures that self-governments bear. There's a few tasks to be done. First of all, it's an investment voucher. Release local government investments from VAT. Finance education: salaries payable from the budget. Extend county hospitals. Is that in this bill? There's no investment bonus. Small municipalities won't hold up the investment, and if they don't hold up the investment, the companies that work there won't be able to hire because they won't have jobs. That's the thing you have to do in the 30s. Local government reform. Once again, the government has fallen. You're against self-government, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You're the enemies of self-government, you're the ones who take away his powers. We will restore these powers. Poland will be great when it is a local government. There is no freedom without self-government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u28	Thank you very much. I would now like the floor of Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, who will present the position of the Association of Members of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u29	You're very nice in that mask. You're very good in it. I think it's asking for a signature: this is a robbery, get out of the money, bourgeois entrepreneur. Mr President, you were to make a statement on behalf of the circle, not to address the Member on the matter of wearing a mask. And I would ask you not to review my speech. Thank you. I can see that it has burned down, that according to what I predicted earlier, as I expected, the formula of the shield was well received, and now such laws on the amendment of all laws will be adopted regularly. I hope that all citizens have already ordered two weeks: a shield home. Inventing this formula, I fear, will be the beginning of a new era in our legislation, and perhaps in world legislation, because I do not know if it will be our contribution to the world's legislative culture. So once again, our legislator used the so-called technique. legislative bigos, which means we put different ideas in one sack and mix them up in the hope that the guests won't return it. Thus, according to the tradition set out in previous shields, we have here, in addition to the ideas to rescue borrowers and banks, various regulations as far away from the fight against COVID-19 as possible, e.g. amendment to the Penal Code on rules for the pooling of penalties. What's that doing here? Impossible, you just threw herring in this bigos and it's hard to expect it to taste later. A frog. Or a frog, yeah. There are also humorous accents, like art. 25, where a qualified type of offence is foreseen to interfere with the transmission by word vulgar or non-prejudiced freak. Seriously, we need a recipe that if someone hacks into a remote conference and says, ha, ha, I got you, they get $1,000. And if he says, ha, ha, I've got you, a butterfly leg, that's $3,000. Evil? Don't you think we're going into casuistics that's already putting a little ridiculous about this whole legislative thing? Are we also going to determine when beating a taxi driver that the kick in the left leg is 500 zloty penalty, right - 750 zloty? Let's not go this way. I understand you gentlemen have some unpleasant experiences with your government colleagues during the teleconference, but let's not put all the unpleasant experiences into paper. Krzysztof Bosak will discuss other aspects of the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u30	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u31	Thank you very much, Marshal. Today we lean over hard to count which version of the crisis shield. There you go, the day the citizens' voice was heard. In the mornings, 'cause it's an hour. 5 a.m., discussing the first anti-crisis shield, I drew attention here from the speaker, saying to this day that we do not present in Prime Minister Morawicki's Chamber that we need regulations that would protect consumers, borrowers, lessees from fraud by financial institutions. Two months of talking, a petition signed by tens of thousands of citizens, raising the subject dozens of times in the media, picking up the topic by the Left, by other opposition clubs, and here we are, after weeks of announcements we succeeded, we have a project in the Sejm. What's in this project? Well, of course, in the PiS style, there are no rules guaranteeing consumers' rights automatically, only aid upon request. The banks will now set up committees. Citizens and entrepreneurs will have to prove their decline in income. Banks will now prove, analyse whether the decline in income has occurred and whether it is clear or vague. The government will control banks whether they have clearly and correctly analysed the incomes of citizens and entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs and citizens will address the government, the government to banks, banks to citizens. You're giving us a great ride here. I'm sure it'll work. I wonder if you believe it yourself. I don't think so. What did you forget? Of course, the leases I was talking about. I don't know if you think this is an insignificant problem for entrepreneurs, but this is actually the second half of the fixed costs. From the very beginning, the Confederate Members have said: to relieve the fixed costs automatically. It took you three months to think about what the Germans did. Congratulations. What else is worth saying? The Office of Competition and Consumer Protection, where Mateusz Morawiecki introduced a similar man, requested the suspension of loans for a year. I applied minimally for six months. What are you doing? For three months. Do you really think that the possibility of delaying upon request, after the bank considers this request, for 3 months of credit, which is to make these three-month loans holidays, will actually give some real relief? After all, three months of this crisis have passed. This is no real relief, that is at most compensation for the time you have closed down the economy. What else is worth saying here. I have focused on credit in my proposals, in my legislative proposal. It is worth recalling: I presented a legislative proposal more than a month ago. All you had to do was use it. She was well thought out. I know you're reading our projects. As a rule, you reject all our amendments, and then you make them as your own. I proposed to introduce this for the most serious loans, i.e. for entrepreneurs and mortgage loans, and you introduce it for a shorter time (the bell), on request, but also for consumer loans. Why? You probably don't know that exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u32	Thank you very much. That concludes the introduction of clubs and circles. Now we're gonna start asking questions. Ms Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, I am surprised at the well-being of the Prime Minister, who told the speaker that the shield had basically solved all the problems. Prime Minister! Go to the mall and talk to the employees who work there. You are pleased that unemployment is not rising, but these workers work on cut salaries, in a reduced working time, although they often have to work more. When are you going to defreeze the trade on Sundays? Interventionally, this must be done as soon as possible to try to stimulate consumption. Go to the owners of the guesthouses and hotels and ask them if the frostbite industry has changed anything. Until you open the borders, nothing will change in this business. Go to the restaurant owners and ask them if frostbite the industry has made them pay for their expenses. They don't make money, and you know it. Or those who lived in the entertainment industry before the crisis. There, until we let people gather, nothing will change. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Start solving the problems of Poles. The shield will help for a month, two, and we need to really solve problems in the long term. People need to be allowed to start making money. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u34	The question will now be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Prime Minister, The shields that we're taking at this rate, as some say, on the knee, have a lot of gaps. The first is to deprive the self-employed who started their business after 1 March of this year of parking. Ladies who have, among others, cosmetic establishments ask what to live from, why they are deprived of this parking space. Secondly, agricultural production cooperatives were eliminated from this financial shield because the members of the RSP have a different code in the ZUS and cannot receive this aid. Thirdly, the self amendment clarifies that today we are introducing the possibility of reducing salaries, among others. employees of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the workers there - 1/3 of them this year had an increased salary up to the minimum wage. They've been promised raises, these raises won't be made, at best they'll be fired. Therefore, the question arises as to whether these solutions (the Bell) concerning the reduction of salaries and checks also apply to local workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u36	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u37	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The government has prepared another crisis shield, which is in fact a whip for employees. It's not an anti-crisis bill, it's an anti-work bill. If the government had the intention of helping entrepreneurs, why not do it at its own expense, it will only charge these costs Just the employees? What right does the government want to lower retirement pensions for those people who often spend their whole lives waiting for this amount and already have plans for what to spend it on? Where is President Piotr Duda in this situation? Where's the "Solidarity"? Why doesn't he protest and defend workers who want to lower their salaries and pensions? Why isn't President Piotr Duda defending the Labour Code against degradation? When's he gonna get out of that boot of Law and Justice? So, what's for the local government? After all, what the government has proposed today is to simulate help, it's to slide on the subject. The local government wants concrete figures (the bell), they want it to be zero VAT on construction investments this year, they want them to be exempted from the need to cover their losses for the previous year, which their hospitals have generated, so much now burdened by the epidemic of Coronavirus, they want support from educational subsidies. The government is waiting for concrete, waiting for a symbolic gift for today's jubilee and the day of the local government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u38	Thank you very much, sir. The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u39	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! In the anti-crisis shield 4.0 we have another emanation of such a legislative diarrhea. It is very good that you are listening at all, here I am speaking to the government, accepting the ideas of the Confederation, e.g. about how to make such a credit holiday for Poles. On the other hand, I am also interested in one very specific thing, which is written in this crisis shield, and it must be admitted that you are creating a lot of legislation which does not concern helping with the crisis related to COVID-19 at all. Art. The 27th project introduces deductions to donations in the form of computer equipment transferred to educational establishments, also used, of this up to 3 years. And in the case of these donations, if the donation was made by 30 April 2020, you can deduct 200% the value of this donation. And let me remind you that it's May 27th, so the law here clearly works backwards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So I ask: Who is the inventor personally, and who will make the money? Thank you. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u40	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u41	Minister! Prime Minister! I'd like to tell you that the credit addition is badly constructed. You didn't think of one thing: credit rating. So what if you've made a bunch of rules when the credit rating will be evaluated at the banks that are responsible for the human money collected there? This can't just be implemented. What's not there? There are no promises by the president to increase unemployment benefits. There isn't. There is no aid in the addition to the electricity promised by Sasin. There isn't. There is no help for local governments that loses, as you say, 13.5 billion, we calculate that more. There isn't. There is no faster return of VAT for entrepreneurs and an eliminated split payment. There isn't. This help factor, this credit add-on, it's just showing this and moping people. There are 40 taxes introduced in that term. There is no elimination of any. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who can enjoy this project? Those who won't have to extend their liquor license. Self-government - for minor traffic. And hospitals are gonna cry because you don't think about them. As of today, the employees of the local government, whom you want to fire and reduce their checks, with these solutions, giving employers permission to do so, will not praise you for it. Scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u42	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are entering the next phase of the economic crisis. Unemployment grows overnight, more companies fall, employees are massively fired. And what does the government do at the time? It proposes a 4.0 shield that instead of solving problems, creates more. The government proposes to send leave on compulsory leave, to allow for the payment of lower checks, and - attention - introduces rules that allow media censorship. Because how are we supposed to interpret the text of the article? 25 and changes to the Code of Misdemeanors? What behaviors will be punished by this provision? What if, during a live policy speech on Facebook, someone repeatedly asks a question that is ignored? Can he also be regarded as a journalist and activist as an obstacle to transmission and punishment? Similarly, if, during the broadcast conference, a journalist asks a loud question by interfering in the statement of politics, can it also be punished? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to believe that this is just your legislative incompetence. Please explain in this respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u44	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u45	The current economic crisis has its main conditions related to the coronavirus, but there are also certain internal and external events that need to be eliminated in this situation. Above all, I am talking about the problem of liberalising economic freedom, freedom that would give new breath, a new look to entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs often return, surprisingly, to the period 30 years ago, to Wolf's reform. At that time, the openness and economic freedom were completely different in their understanding, and they had no strings attached. The second problem is the issue of the continuity of changes, the determination of the effects of changes made, what the current changes will bring, what they can bring, what Professor Rosati said. Of course, credit subsidies are a well-known financial instrument used in the 1990s, [[♪ The bell ♪]] But also entrepreneurs, and banks are mainly waiting for guarantees, for guarantees. Finally, the last issue is the problem of dialogue. This is the weakest side: no dialogue. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]] Go ahead and finish it, sir. No dialogue with employees, employers and local authorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u46	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u47	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Who do you really support: entrepreneurs or banks? Earlier, free money, now credit subsidies. There is concern about liquidity, but you forget that in fact today the main problem of Polish entrepreneurs is the decline in demand. 60% entrepreneurs indicate that this is the most important problem in terms of their functioning today. Meanwhile, state banks - you would like to say: your banks - instead of this demand stimulate, create, create, they soul. It's like sabotage. What the president of PKO BP does and says, which even scares Poles by the fact that it reduces credit action, that it will become more difficult about mortgage loans, it is in fact a knife in the back for the real estate market, it is a knife in the back for the Polish construction sector. I don't know what this man is. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He's still doing his job. Perhaps BGK should take over the entire market if the banks cannot and do not want to engage themselves. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u48	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u49	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! What the Ministry of Digitalization is doing in subsequent shields can be said in one sentence: my mast is bigger than yours. I am amazed to see 5G network investors gain almost divine status in Poland, because their will blows where they want. They can already build what they want and where they want. Today also: when they want, because the construction of the mast is to start 3 days from the application, although the opposition is 14 days. What if the opposition is right? Dismantling? With one hand, the project introduces beneficial solutions in spatial planning and, under other articles, increases the participation of residents in decisions on how their surroundings will look like. The second hand eliminates to legal zero the possibility of discussing whether 3 days after the notification someone will not start building us behind the 5G network mast window. Maybe the Ministry of Digitization will talk to the Ministry of Development, which has any idea about the participation and the conventions in force (The Bell) in this matter. You have already removed the need for environmental decisions. Thank you very much. Now you're picking up local governments, on the day of their holiday, the opportunity to take care of the spatial order in your own territory. Thank you very much. You don't care about anybody. You care about 5G investors. Please remove this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u50	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Maria Małgorzata Janyska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have a question for the applicants: Who exactly do you consult with your laws? Before today's meeting we received a lot of calls from entrepreneurs, from representatives of employers' organisations surprised by the design of this project, which they believe to be a mess - in quotes, of course - all kinds of legislation that had nothing to do with the promotion and support of entrepreneurs during the pandemic period. On the other hand, they pay attention to matters still not settled. They placed first - it was an appeal which they also addressed to you - the suspension of the trade ban on Sundays. So let me remind you, gentlemen, that not more than in May, the Civic Coalition submitted a proposal for changes to the so-called. the covid act, which states that, in view of the outbreak declared as a result of the occurrence of COVID-19, the ban on trade is being lifted on Sundays. I will also remind you that changes in public procurement are very important, but I do not hear today (the bell) a proposal for a fundamental change that would prevent family transfers... Thank you. ...money for your own. That's public procurement... Thank you very much, Member. I'm just gonna finish my sentence, Marshal, okay? This is really important. Public procurement procedures do not concern issues related to COVID-19, but transparency, competitiveness and immediate information obligations on which contracts, to whom and to what extent have been awarded should continue to apply. The point is to protect ourselves from the fact that you'll be giving your own, just like you got your family on your own, the Szumowski family. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u52	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u53	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Of course, it's not a new shield, it's another patch on that first, incredibly penetrating shield. And I'm sorry to say that this help is inefficient, complicated. In fact, every time you cheat the state of entrepreneurs, you cheat local governments, and today we have an unprecedented hit on employees. I don't know who you're trying to save, because one by one, these complicated, unclear rules are simply destroying other areas of social life. Minister! If you want to reduce employees' salaries for a year, then why? You only offer credit relief for 3 months? If you're making it easy to fire workers like that, I'd say a very simple way, then why aren't you preparing a soft landing for these workers? After all, the employees, the capital (the bell), which Poland has of its employees, is something that the whole world envys us. Why won't you protect it? Why are you hitting the workers so hard? Thank you very much. And one last question, Marshal. Why, if you want to help people, you just won't cut VAT to 22%, what did you promise in 2015? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] To get them up. We need a bill, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u54	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u55	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In Kraków still 2 weeks ago as much as 70% the companies did not receive any aid from the State. Currently, this ratio has changed slightly, only 35% of companies are still without any State aid. And companies show the main reasons for this lack of aid: ambiguities in the legislation, bureaucracy and time to grant these applications. People submitted their applications at the employment offices 2 months ago and still have no answer, although the employment office in Krakow works 24 hours a day, also on Saturdays, and posted absolutely all employees to these tasks. PFR shield - the system hangs up, the staff rounds up, the ZUS data are inconsistent with US data, entrepreneurs fill in the same applications 10 times and often still have no answer. You're entering a new 4.0 shield. I'm asking you, why do you put 100,000 in there? on issues and on 72 articles only 25 on the subject? How are these poor entrepreneurs supposed to find their way into this? How are they supposed to find these regulations and this help? Why are you imposing a ban on companies' own property under a penalty of up to PLN 50 million? Maybe for some companies just selling (the bell), selling some shares might be the only way to survive. And the last question is, couldn't you make those shields from start to finish right at the beginning? The point is not to make them all the time, and so that entrepreneurs don't have to make them every week, every two... Thank you very much. ...read the new rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u56	Thank you very much, Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Everyone... Many people, entrepreneurs, local government officials and people who were in a difficult situation were waiting for this shield. Unfortunately, great disappointment, Prime Minister, really. It's just how can you work so long on a fourth shield that can't actually stand much? The first thing is anti-work regulations. Why does the government every day, because it has to be said so, want to introduce rules that radically limit the amount of retirement payments for retired workers? It's already causing a lot of panic on the market. Some lose 10,000. zł and more. It's a huge problem, it's really shocking. The second thing - local governments were waiting for a new spending rule. Yes, but only in 2020. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it should be 2021 and 2022. How can we limit ourselves to 2020? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And a bunch of others. Where's the money to invest for local governments? What are they going to invest with? And public investment is the best, the most effective, when it comes to getting out of stagnation, from the crisis. Thank you very much. Everything's really... It's not enough. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u58	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Another shield, fourth in a row, another bureaucratic record and another empty promise, just as government benches are empty. We're lucky to count ministers on the fingers of one hand, and there's about 100 or more of them. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill provides for a budget expenditure limit of PLN 567 million in the context of 2 years, i.e. 296 million per year, or 1/8 of what the government has allocated to TVP. And this money is meant to be for entrepreneurs, for local governments, for everyone. The bill, which has nearly 100 pages, improves 40 laws, but also introduces provisions that have nothing to do with help, such as amending the Penal Code. Why? [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't know that. On the other hand, you do not unblock trade on Sundays, you do not unblock VAT, which is held by tax offices, you do not introduce... Thank you very much, Member. ...simplification of procedures or electricity subsidies, which has been promised. This is a propaganda project for help. It's cynicism and hypocrisy. It's a poorly prepared bill that has nothing to do with help, but propaganda for the success of the current government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u60	Thank you very much. I would very much ask you to be in time. Mrs Katarzyna Lubnauer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! I have to say, when I see these other shields, I feel like there's a lot of noise about nothing. If the scale of aid for credit subsidies is 600 million, it is only 10, even less than 10 times more than Sasin wasted on elections that did not take place, and 60% What you wasted on a failed power plant in Ostrołęka. But I want to ask you something else. What is to be the aid to such a local government as Warsaw, which will pay 1,200 million this year, and next year will pay 1300 million Janosik in terms of the fact that you will allow them payments for May and June to pay in the second half of the year, since revenues, PIT revenues for Warsaw in March fell by 16%, and in April by 41% year to year? That means that this help of yours is for nothing, because you don't want to help, really. You want to pretend you're helping. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This whole shield of yours is such an act that you're helping. The fact that in this law after the article is the best evidence of the legislative quality of this law. 15zzzi you add art. Fifteen-zero-fifteen-fifteen-fifteen-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty-fifty. The booze and a little help. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u62	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Please, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Development, Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened with great interest to the voices, discussions and statements of the representatives of the clubs. I must say with great disappointment that I would like you to study the provisions of this law with equal care, the justification for it and the detailed justification for the assessment of the effects of the regulation and, on this basis, prepare for speeches, not just on the basis of reading the daily colour press, because some of you have strongly referred to such source data. But maybe before I start answering specific questions, especially since some of the questions have been repeated, I will start by ordering them, from Professor Dariusz Rosati's statement. First of all, thank you for the statistics. I think Grant Thornton will be pleased, you did some work for them. A little respect for the work of the MP. Prime Minister, it's not appropriate. General note: yes, of course we would like to work with a large amount of time, with a large amount of consultation, with a certain conviction that we are creating a comprehensive solution that will give answers in the event of the whole development of the situation we are facing. But show me, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, any country in the world today that can answer questions with a high degree of predictability that goes beyond the horizon of 2 weeks. There is no such country today. Germany. We can, of course, compare ourselves with the scale of aid provided by the German State, but you know better than I do that the German economy has financial buffers will begin to go beyond our capabilities. Nevertheless, we are the second country in terms of the amount of public aid in relation to GDP that we are currently providing on the market. Let's see how this ends for our public debt. He spoke about the scale of the aid which is allocated to this law. From the beginning, let us say that we add individual solutions to our basic solutions. I wouldn't just read this law through the rules and the amount of aid we're providing here. The honourable Member was gracious to note, several other Members later asking questions, that today guarantees are more needed than interest payments. Let me remind you that in the first shield we increased the possibility of granting guaranteed loans, we increased the limit of aid, the limit of guarantees granted by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego in the de minimis instrument, which is well known to Polish entrepreneurs and the Polish banking system. Guarantees up to 80% They're already being handed over today. The amount of the guarantee, the charts I will be happy to make available, is already about PLN 6 billion. Jumping up from April 1st. It is therefore an instrument that works. When we are talking about an instrument of interest subsidies, it is supporting the one already in force on the market - for small and medium-sized companies and for large companies. For the first time we have also extended the scope of de minimis aid, de minimis guarantees and interest subsidies will clearly support those loans which are already covered by the guarantees and guarantees of BGK. So this instrument, if we are talking about the value of which Mrs Lubnauer was gracious to mention, is worth about PLN 600 million, it is the lever for loans of about PLN 30 billion and that is how these values should be read. And all the assistance given in this law, Mrs, because this one amount, which you were kind to mention, concerns only this one instrument... You have not summed up the aid that we provide directly to local authorities, which may not be entirely possible, because not only through the payment of the State Treasury property, but also through the freedom of access to cork, but also by making the budget more flexible... This is about PLN 10 billion for this year, if local governments are in debt, which is what they are counting on, that they will be able to borrow, and we are enabling them to do so. It'll be extended over the next few years. This is government money. Mr Rosati said that this is only a project... For entrepreneurs we have only 9 pages. I do not agree with this thesis, because solutions are assumed to be very beneficial, new. The restructuring provisions that are introduced here are provisions that facilitate difficult restructuring processes (The Bell) in a simpler, easier way. Anti-appropriation regulations are also new rules, completely. These are not corrections and corrections, these are the new rules that we are introducing here. The rules on local government units are also a new regulation. Therefore, the scope of the corrections of the previous provisions is much smaller than the scope of the new regulations. The right, which has been repeated many times here, the Prime Minister to reduce the employment of local governments, as I said, has been abolished by an auto-correction. I would like to refer to Mr Zandberg and a few other Members who have focused primarily on employment legislation. I would call these provisions pro-employment regulations precisely the rules that will keep jobs, Mr President. You mentioned relationships, organizations, you mentioned companies that are talking about firing spectrum today. Let me remind you that all the provisions that have been introduced and in this law, and in previous laws, make it possible to use the aid, to pay the salary, to park it, to keep jobs. And these are the most important laws that are actually addictive... Very close to the end, Prime Minister. If we are talking about these changes that you have introduced - and this is my basic point, which is that you should eat in Seym printing rather than in the daily press - yes, we enter the possibility of maintaining a reduced salary for a maximum period of 12 months, in situations very clearly described, in a situation where turnover is reduced by 15% in a given company. in terms of year to year or 25% within 2 months. Only then will it be possible to make use of this possibility after obtaining acceptance of the trade union organisations. So it doesn't happen from a vending machine. Therefore, we do not automatically reduce wages. We are talking about the situation in which we are facing a dilemma: whether the workplace is to keep jobs or whether it is to stay in a given place. Imagine a place like Ostrowiec Świętokrzyski, Celsa's steelworks. If it weren't for these regulations, the whole county is losing its basic employment base. The whole county is losing its basic employment base. There are dozens of such places in Poland. I could give further examples because I spoke not only to trade unions but also to entrepreneurs. These are regulations that address the real needs of the labour market today. If you're talking about briefings, I'd like to... Minister, I ask you to finish... One last word, Marshal. Because there were important words here that we were radically restricting checks. Then tell me, Madam, who asked you a question about briefings: Can you answer the question of what level will be reduced in exceptional circumstances? Ask Szumowski. 60 million. Do you know? Tell me what your grossly low paycheck is gonna be. This minimum briefing, this ten times, it's going to be, ladies and gentlemen, 26,000. zł. When the minister leaves, he gets 70. Tell me... We are talking about a reduction until the pandemic, we are talking about the possibility of reducing again only if there is a decrease in turnover and again with the agreement of the trade union organisations. So what is the workforce population we are talking about, who are likely to be affected by a reduction of up to 26,000. What's wrong with witnessing? Let us stand honestly and in the truth what laws we are talking about. These are pro-employment regulations, I'm really convinced of that. Social benefit fund - next. Let us not use populist arguments. Prime Minister, I'm very sorry, but you've already double-crossed your time. The time of this government has passed. Again, once again, it is possible to reduce to a legally regulated amount only in agreement with the trade union organisations. When you ask us what will be left of us, I will say one thing: certainly not the Flood. It's not a flood. Ash. 2 billion for TV. There will be jobs, production capacity will be maintained and strength will be maintained, this vital force which has made today the Polish economy judged not by pro-government experts... Unless we agree that Bloomberg, who gives our statistics and evaluates us as the best dealt with by the state crisis, does not write under the dictation of this government. So, after us, we will have stable development conditions for the years to come. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Like I'm listening to Donald Tusk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u64	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in a moment. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min. 26 hours 12 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed to the vote in a moment. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the Government's draft law on bank loan interest payments to provide liquidity to entrepreneurs affected by the effects of COVID-19 and on amending certain other laws. In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote in a moment. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. Because we're going to have a vote and there's been a break, we're going to re-check the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to check the quorum. You're welcome. 445 Members shall attend the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. We therefore proceed with the vote. I would like to remind you that in the discussion on the draft law, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. I would remind you that the rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Public Finance Committee for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill, contained in prints 382 and 382-A, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 181 was for, 233 against, 38 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. I'm declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 50 hrs 12 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities (prints No 281 and 365). I would very much like to ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I have the honour to present the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities, the government project is in print No 281 and the report is published in print No 365. The Commission carried out its first reading and examined the bill on 6 May. The justification for the project was presented by Minister Piotr Nowak, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. The project aims to implement European Union law. It concerns the introduction, in urgent cases, of the possibility of immediate and exceptional intervention by the Financial Supervision Commission in relation to foreign insurance and reinsurance undertakings operating in our country. The Commission accepted one amendment to change the date of entry into force of the Act, in fact the deletion of that provision, that Article. Point 2 (1) shall enter into force on 1 July. The Commission has only left the provision that the entire act shall enter into force on the 14th day following its publication. The Commission recommends that the draft law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u66	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u67	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I will speak exceptionally in exchange for the absent Mr Costowniak, who was to speak on behalf of the club, but he had to remain in connection with the outbreak of Coronavirus. Therefore, on behalf of the parliamentary club, I stress that this law gives the Commission for Financial Supervision the opportunity to carry out effective supervision and intervention in relation to foreign insurance companies. The Act also implements the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2019. The Act introduces changes in the scope of reporting for the Insurance Guarantee Fund, which give rise to the possibility of precise supervision and, of course, to the supervision of communication insurers who operate on the Polish market and are registered outside Poland. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club recommends that this law be adopted without amendment. The amendment concerning the deadline was adopted at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u68	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u69	Dear Marshal! Ministers, unfortunately, so few representatives of the government! Dear Members, I have a report in front of me on the performance of the Financial Ombudsman's task of conducting out-of-court proceedings on disputes between clients of financial market entities and those entities in 2019. As you know, it is to the financial Ombudsman that citizens have the right to complain if they feel deceived or injured by insurers, including insurance companies from European countries. In 2019 almost 2 000 were received. applications for insurance products, of which most cases concerned disputes related to communication insurance. This is best demonstrated by the importance and importance of the project being conducted today. The proposed amendment to both laws aims at broadening the possibilities for the Financial Supervision Commission to intervene in relation to foreign insurance companies, and in particular to provide additional, effective and rapid supervisory mechanisms. I would add that there are also obvious supervisory mechanisms, because it is clear that the Financial Supervision Commission should be able to act on other insurers from the European Union, who are now only covered by the authority of regulatory authorities from their home countries. Today, the Financial Supervision Commission cannot take action if the parent regulatory authority, equivalent to the Polish KNF, does not take them. Currently there is a legal gap where national entities have to comply with Polish regulations, some foreign entities must also comply with Polish regulations, but EU entities They don't have to. Why don't they have to? That's because you didn't have time to deal with it. Of course, I'm talking about the government of law and justice. If the project is to have a positive impact on citizens, the question arises as to why we had to wait so long to develop it, because unless the project raises more concerns, it can be assessed positively, because it increases consumer safety by implementing an important EU directive, and it complements the law adopted by the Sejm at the end of the term of office of 2011.2015, despite the PiS MEPs' vote, nothing can be said about the pace of preparation. Let me remind you that there was an agreement conference on this matter over a year ago. However, there was no agreement with the regulatory authorities of other European Union countries which did not act at the request of the NCF. Nevertheless, work on such a short project continued until now, and in the meantime many citizens had problems with EU insurers in Poland, e.g. as regards the timeliness of payments. Many Polish consumers were victimized by the tardiness of the government in this area, because the government preferred to deal with elections to Europarlament and subsequent elections, including, of course, those elections which did not take place, instead of sacrificing itself to protect Polish consumers. Instead of solving the real problems of citizens, the government pushed through the Sejm adopted on its knees and on political orders further laws destroying the legal order in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u70	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For the Left Club, the fundamental issue in all legal decisions concerning entities operating on our market is that they are fair and treat all entities equally, and in particular that Polish entities are not treated worse and that they do not have a weaker position vis-à-vis foreign competition. The proposed amendments to the Act, which we are looking at today, go in this direction - equal treatment of Polish and foreign entities, and the proposed possibility for the Financial Supervision Commission to impose penalties on insurance companies and reinsurance companies from other European Union countries, which under the Solvency II Directive were to comply with the general requirements, including applicable Polish companies, on the Polish market, but do not apply them, is therefore fair. The Left Club also stresses the need to protect consumers' interests, the interests of Poles and Poles who are recipients of services, in this case insurance services. The proposed amending provisions providing for fines in the event of non-payment by a foreign insurance undertaking of compensation within a statutory period or failure to comply with the information obligation are therefore in line with our expectations. Those penalties shall be provided in exceptional cases in order to prevent or remedy the breach of the interests of both insured and policyholders or entitled to insurance. This is therefore a pro-consumer action and does not exclude Solvency II. With regard to the provisions of the proposed amendment, the Left Club therefore supports them. On the other hand, it is worrying about what the Ministry of Finance informed during the project work, namely that the Polish Financial Supervision Commission encounters difficulties in cooperation with supervisory authorities from the parent countries of those insurance companies concerned by the project from the European Union's parent countries. We do not understand why it took so long to learn from this lack of cooperation, why Poles and Poles had to wait for this law for more than a year, so-called. Ecofin, meetings at European level on the implementation of this Solvency II directive, i.e. Solvency II, lasted over a year. However, expressing this concern, we assume that the fault lies on the side of foreign financial supervisory authorities, at this stage determining doubts in favour of the Polish Financial Supervision Commission. Finally, we would like to propose that the proceeds of these penalties be the revenue of the Financial Education Fund. It's a fund that was created over a year and a half ago. Somehow he hasn't been heard from. It was intended to increase financial knowledge in schools and society in general to prevent phenomena such as gullibility and vulnerability to various manipulations, to various financial pyramids, to the activities of GetBack societies, but somehow we do not hear about the activities of the education fund. The proceeds from these penalties to this fund are not foreseen. We propose that we make such an adjustment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u72	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u73	Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed changes result from the need to provide the Financial Supervision Commission as a Polish supervisory authority with effective, fast and effective supervisory activities of foreign insurance companies and foreign reinsurance undertakings which operate in the Republic of Poland and carry out certain activities in this area. This is also linked to the need for revision, which is due to the need for an EU directive and which harmonises certain systems across the Union. As a result of these actions, the Financial Supervision Commission will have the same powers vis-à-vis national establishments insurance as for those that operate in Poland, and have their sources, their parent structures, their parent companies in other countries. This will introduce an important element in ordering the market. In addition, the draft law clarifies that rules on certain sanctions or compensation payments by foreign establishments will be able to be closely monitored by KNF, as well as KNF may impose certain penalties on companies that fail to comply with their obligations. The Financial Supervision Commission will have, as I said, additional powers. This will allow to maintain certain standards that apply in our country to national entities, they will also apply to foreign entities. One problem is the delay mentioned by the rapporteur, because the arrangements were made on 24 May last year. We understand the epidemic situation, but these laws did not require, these solutions, certain arrangements and could be implemented, as required by legislation and our presence in the common European market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u74	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The reasons which led to the submission of the proposed bill should be indicated at the outset. This is a permanent weakness of EU law imposed on Poland, which adversely affects the functioning of supervision of the insurance market in the context of foreign entities. In accordance with the principles applicable on the financial market under Union law, insurance companies may operate throughout the Union, including naturally in Poland, if they obtain a licence in one EU country. However, this principle also results in another rule which assumes the primacy of the supervision of the home State authority. The assumption was that national supervisions that regulate the activities of insurance companies would operate in a harmonised manner, based on similar standards, will communicate with each other and cooperate. However, it turns out that this system works very poorly. The consequences of the lack of supervision of foreign insurance companies, especially in terms of risk and consequently insolvency, can be felt by all. In the event of the insolvency of a foreign entity who sold insurance policies in Poland and made large money on them, which he placed naturally in his home country, the insurance company will apply for payment to the Insurance Guarantee Fund, which consists of de facto all insurance companies, especially Polish insurance companies. Really, in relation to such insolvent foreign insurance company, the Polish supervisory authority, the Financial Supervision Commission, will not be able to do anything. High Izbo! The current legal situation is another example of Poland's resignation from the supervision of its own financial market, here in the context of the activities of foreign entities. This is an example of the slow erosion of the Polish state, which is the result of uncritical faith in the EU's freedom of movement. The provisions proposed by the law enabling immediate intervention by the Financial Supervision Commission in the event of the need to remedy the irregularities without prior notification to the competent supervisory authority of the home Member State and waiting for the appropriate response of that authority, however, may not be sufficient. The Confederation takes the view that the provisions of Polish law should safeguard the possibility of effective enforcement by foreign insurance companies of Polish law and, above all, should break with the principle of supervision by the parent state for supervision by the State in whose territory the services are provided. However, the additional powers of KNF for foreign insurance companies proposed in the draft law are a step in the right direction. We welcome every, even the smallest, sobering administration aimed at regaining sovereignty, here in relation to the possibility of enforcement of Polish law by foreign insurance companies operating in Poland. At the same time, recognising a number of problems relating to the functioning of EU law in Poland, the Polish Confederation Circle calls on the government to review all EU financial market regulations, including insurance, in the context of the lack of supervisory powers on the part of the Financial Supervision Commission in relation to the single European passport and the principle of liability to the parent supervisory authority by foreign entities operating in Poland, and then to take action to amend law at EU and national level to ensure appropriate competences. We cannot allow the lack of appropriate and effective legal means on the part of the KNF to lead to the fact that Poles' money will be carried out by foreign entities to their countries as a result of illegal activities, with the total inability of the Polish administration. The Confederation takes the view that all entities operating in the territory of the Republic of Poland should be supervised by the Commission for Financial Supervision in the same way, regardless of whether they are national or foreign entities, because supervision of our financial market is one of the fundamental elements of our sovereignty. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u76	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u77	God bless you! As you have heard, Your Honorable Marshal, the Confederation strives to ensure that everyone in Poland is equal to the law, whether it's private persons or entities such as financial institutions. Of course, this situation poses some problems in the light of the practice and omissions of institutions such as the Commission for Financial Supervision and the Bank Guarantee Fund. With us in Podkarpacie, the PBS, Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank in Sanok, was or was caused by these institutions, by the Financial Supervision Commission, the Bank Guarantee Fund, in the form of the bank robbery that took place - it is a pity - then without these masks (the bell), in which the state, the State of the Left is so picturesque. So the question is: When we act as chandeliers of this law, we happen to wake up some demon and, by chance, are we not yet strengthening those institutions which sometimes seem separate from the Polish statehood, de facto extraterritorial... Draw close to the end, sir. ...without being controlled by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland? Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I was written down. Is there a problem or... No. Well, go ahead, then. There is no Member. During the epidemic, insurance becomes an increasingly important tool for the protection of health, life and property of millions of Poles and Poles. The insurance market is expanding, and customers often do not know if the entity to which they apply is national or foreign. Hence my question: How many Poles today use foreign insurance companies and foreign reinsurance companies in Poland? Does the Ministry have estimates of how the market will develop after this bill has been introduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u80	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 14 in point b, the monetary penalty imposed on a member of the managing organisation of a salary of 3 months up to 100 000. zł proves that there is a lack of knowledge of the reality of the rates of earnings on the boards of these companies and insurance institutions. I therefore ask for at least a double increase in this amount, so that it actually scares away from making bad decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u82	Thank you. Please, Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u83	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Could you tell me how many foreign insurance companies will be affected by this law, I say in quotes, which operate in Poland? Do you have any knowledge of which company is today's most complaints and what actions have been taken with regard to it? And my last question is: during this period, in March, April, May, do we see an increase in the number of refusals to pay compensation or the execution of contracts that were concluded between the companies and those who were insured there?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u84	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Probably all of us have experienced contacts with insurance companies in our lives, and they were often not very good contacts. The truth is that it is good that this law is being introduced and that supervision is increasing, especially over these foreign companies. My first question is: Why is the implementation of this EU directive so late? After all, this first directive was 2009, later it was amended in 2019 and the second question. The Act is to enter into force 14 days after the date of the announcement. But the question is how it's going to work, how long it's going to work backwards, which is to say briefly, how long this potentially injured client, a resident of our country, will possibly be able to complain about these foreign companies, about the events that took place (the bell), I don't know, year, 2, 3 years ago. I didn't read that in the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u86	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Urszula Augustyn, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u87	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Club speeches emphasized very strongly the fact that this law was ready at least a year ago. So the question is why the government is always doing something else instead of introducing these regulations, which are good, especially for Polish entities. It is worth asking, because the government has been dealing with all other matters since the outbreak, and especially since the outbreak, rather than having someone to pay such insurance. You call your laws shields one, two, three, four, etc., and as a result you really do not meet people, especially entrepreneurs, who should be able to work freely. Now that we're hearing that you're releasing the economy, it's... For example, we get a lot of information from entrepreneurs who say, well, unfortunately, you forgot. Today we're talking about motor insurance. So why do you forget e.g. About the collective transport? It's a transport that's not as fast defrosted as [[♪ The bell ♪]] other transport. And today, when we say e.g. about all those who should have some facilities because they organize collective trips, various kinds of trips... They do not know whether or not they will be affected by any economic loosening. If they're gonna pay insurance, they want to know if they're gonna get what they need. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u88	Thank you very much, Member. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! I wanted to ask the Minister: Is your boss in the office because no one has seen him in this room? That's my first question. It's not related to this bill, but it's with a few others that the finance committee will be investigating. My second question: Minister, how did this happen - about what one of my previous speakers, a Member from Podkarpacie, said - that you supported local governments after the restructuring bankruptcy of the Podkarpackie Cooperative Bank? You gave it to the local governments, and you didn't help the entrepreneurs. That's the second question. Hospitals. And you didn't help the hospitals. Therefore, the same supervision, the same Banking Committee of the Guarantee Fund, the same government divides. You gave it to the government because you wanted it, and you gave it to yourself. And back to today's topic of motor insurance. We called a spokesperson in 2015 [[♪ The bell ♪]] Financially, and we're just surprised that there's been such a long delay in the process. We gave tools so that someone could help, and you've been with this -- as popular as it is, in Podkarpacie they say -- coconuts. And it's only today that there's a project that really affects one entity. So we expect that in matters of importance... Thank you very much. ...for your clients, you'll be faster. An example of shields shows you're slow as a turtle. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u90	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u91	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Again, we are faced with a situation in which the PiS government is coerced by the institutions of the European Union to ensure a higher level of protection for the clients of this sector in Poland. And this is another example of the fact that if it had not been for the European Union, institutions such as the European Parliament, the European Commission, customers, entrepreneurs would have been left to themselves by the PiS government. Question: "Why do you wait so long to introduce these rules?" This is another element that builds up just a lack of trust in this government. But I have a question. It's about another matter, too. The biggest hit on the clients of insurance companies came not from insurers, but from the government. You introduced a bank tax, calling it a bank, but actually also paid by insurance companies' customers. And the question is, will you withdraw from this banking tax, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Given the current situation and the economic crisis, what are the clients of insurance companies also looking forward to? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Szczerba, Civic Coalition. Michael. Michael, I'm sorry. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u93	It's okay. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This is expected because this novel aims to increase the possibility of the Commission's intervention of financial supervision vis-à-vis foreign insurance undertakings, foreign reinsurance undertakings. In particular, the aim is to provide it with additional, effective and rapid mechanisms for the supervision of establishments other than the Republic of Poland of a Member State of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen! When it was KNF, we all remember. We remember Mr. Chrzanowski, we remember 40 million. What don't we know? We do not know what is going on in this case: how the National Public Prosecutor's Office works, what decisions have been made, at what stage It's an investigation. You are now entering the powers of the controlling body of other entities, foreign entities, but what reputation have you built up for the Financial Supervision Commission after such failed decisions and personal solutions (The Bell), which unfortunately ended in a huge KNF scandal? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, Please answer the question: Why did a case like this have to wait until 1 year, although you have proved that many laws can be prepared within one day? Not only do you prepare them, but you also process them overnight. Often these are complex laws, changing the rules of many laws, often almost 100. The laws themselves, prepared by you so quickly, are also superstitious. However, today we are talking about a very simple, uncomplicated law, on the basis of a directive that is simple and clear, which gives us the right to do so... In this case, this law is intended to ensure that we act in accordance with EU law. We've been waiting a year for this. Please inform us how many people, because of this, because of the tardiness of the government, have suffered from this, how many cases and claims we have that have not been resolved for precisely this reason (the Bell), including those relating to too long deadlines for payment of communication compensation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u96	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u97	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This is a project aimed at implementing EU law. Complements the gap existing in the legislation. Thanks to these provisions, all insurance service providers now have the opportunity to be treated equally, regardless of where they are located, in which country. This law also gives additional tools to the Financial Supervision Commission. This also increases consumer safety. Does the government, the applicant, have data on the scale of the previous infringements, which were precisely due to the absence of previous possible implementation of this Directive? The Act also refers to the right of KNF to immediately impose a penalty. Therefore, my questions are: Have you estimated how much this revenue will be, and what exactly will the funds thus obtained be spent? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will some of them return to the affected consumers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u98	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monika Pawłowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u99	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Unifying, simplifying, improving the tax system in Poland and within the European Union is a priority, so every law of this kind is of gold. My question will also apply to the subject of taxes. So I'm asking when the government will lean on the problem of local governments and fill in the gaps in the influences of CIT and PIT. Coronavirus pandemic increased expenditure. The government has given greater responsibility to local governments, and it's already very heavy. So we expect Matthew Morawiecki's office to take responsibility for this difficult situation of local governments. The left says briefly: PiS, pay. I hear you've got a lot of money, and public finances are in perfect shape. If it's so great, then help the self-governments you're destroying. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u100	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u101	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me refer to questions related to the draft law, which were not so much in relation to everyone. As far as insurance companies are concerned, how many more or less of the persons covered, i.e. insured, benefit from insurance offered by such undertakings operating on such a basis, this is about 100,000 for us. persons. However, let me answer in writing questions about all kinds of statistics - because we do not have all these data at hand - so that they are precise. We will answer in writing all questions concerning various types of statistics. As far as the number of such plants is concerned, there are roughly three plants currently operating in Poland on this type of basis, one main one comes from Denmark. The question was how many people made such insurances in May, April and March. It turned out that finally Danish supervision understood the problem with this main insurance company and since January banned the conclusion of new contracts for this entity in Poland. So there's already zero of these contracts. The powers will enter into force 14 days after the President's signature and the announcement, and this will apply to all current agreements, i.e. those that were concluded earlier. As regards the deadline, the Solvency II Directive was adopted in 2015 and introduced. It was adopted by this House in the first half of 2015, as I recall. That problem wasn't a big, smoking problem. As was mentioned, the principle was that a single supervision was to be introduced in the Union, all countries are to introduce the same regulations as regards not only the financial sector but also the so-called ones. Directives, therefore, all operate uniformly on the same rights. Turns out working with surveillance isn't so great. But please also remember that this is not a huge problem, because at the first, let's call it, shortcomings noticed by Polish supervision, by KNF were contacts with particular supervisions, so it is not that because these regulations come in now, there are great difficulties or great damage. No, it's just also a more preventive tool. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u102	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on Goods and Services Tax, the Act on the Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries and some other laws (Prints No 208 and 364). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Pole to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u103	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present, on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, a report by the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Corporate Income Tax, the Act on Goods and Services Tax, the Act on the Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries and some other laws, prints No 208 and 364. The Sejm at its meeting, High Izbo, on 12 February this year. addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission considered the above project at two meetings, i.e. on 13 February and 6 May this year, and asks the High Sejm to announce the attached bill. A few words, High Izbo, your marshal, about the purpose and need to pass this bill. Because the bill introduces changes in several laws. I'm going to exchange those laws that he's referring to. There's six of them. And so it refers to the so-called. The CIT Act, i.e. on corporation tax, concerns the Act - Tax Order, concerns the Act - Tax Code, concerns the VAT Act, i.e. the Tax on Goods and Services, concerns the Act on National Tax Administration and the Act on the Exchange of Tax Information with other States. The solutions proposed in this draft law are divided into three groups and are primarily due to the implementation of EU directives and regulations. Thus, in the first group of provisions which seal the corporate income tax system, the Council of the European Union Directive of 29 May 2017 on hybrid mismatches concerning third countries, hereinafter referred to as the ATAD Directive, is implemented. In the second group of provisions, which are introduced in this draft law, amendments are made to the VAT Act, the main purpose of which is to implement EU rules in the Polish legal order, in particular the Council Directive of 4 December 2018 as regards the harmonisation and simplification of certain provisions in the value added tax system concerning taxation of trade between Member States, hereinafter referred to as Directive 2018/1910. The third group of provisions are provisions aimed at completing the transposition of the Council of the European Union Directive of 25 May 2018 as regards mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation in respect of reporting cross-border arrangements, hereinafter referred to as the MDR Directive, and provisions to clarify the existing rules on information on tax schemes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The discussion at these meetings that I referred to, both February and May, was extensive, exhausting and long. There have been a lot of issues raised, there have been many issues explained by the Minister and the team who were present with the Minister at all these meetings of the finance committee. In conclusion, as I said at the outset, the committee asks that the High Sejm adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u104	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government's draft law amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Law on the Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries and some other laws in print No 208 and 364. The proposed law amends six laws. In addition to those already mentioned in the title of the Act, this concerns the Tax Order, the Tax Code and the National Tax Administration Act. The changes consist in implementing EU directives aimed at sealing the tax system into the Polish legal system. In the case of corporate tax, it is a continuation of the introduction of rules to counter tax avoidance practices by extending the scope to hybrid mismatches involving third countries. Hybrid mismatches may relate to a different qualification of the entity or payment. This may lead to a double deduction of the same payments and costs or losses or a deduction of the payment without the corresponding inclusion of that payment in income. The amendments to the provisions on the taxation of goods and services concern the harmonisation and simplification of certain provisions on taxation of trade between Member States. As my previous speaker said, this is about Directive 2018/1910, which aims to improve, harmonise and seal the current VAT system in areas - I will mention here three such areas - the movement of goods in the procedure of call-off stock warehouse. In the current legislation, this was called a cross-border shipping warehouse. This applies to chain transactions and intra-Community supplies as regards the grounds for granting the exemption, the zero rate, with the right to deduct. At the same time, the bill implements the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 28 February 2018 in Case C-307/16 concerning Stanisław Pieńkowski. In view of the changes regarding the call-off stock warehouse procedure in the Goods and Services Tax Act, the project includes changes in the Tax Code and the National Tax Administration Act. With regard to tax reporting rules, the amendment is to require the Head of National Tax Administration to provide information on cross-border tax schemes to the Member States of the European Union and to a limited extent to the European Commission and to clarify the rules of the Tax Order. The Committee on Public Finances has tabled amendments during its work, including on the entry into force of the contested law on 1 July 2020. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice also tabled amendments to this law today. These are two substantive amendments and one legislative amendment. In order to ensure the smooth functioning of the tax system, having regard to the EU directives, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this government bill and will vote in favour of its adoption at the third reading together with the amendments tabled today. I also encourage Members of the opposition to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u106	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Janusz Silchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u107	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club for this presentation, the essence of which is to seal the tax system. This is never ending story, another edition, in which case in a moment, by the way, the coronavirus, COVID-19 I'll tell you: I'm checking. Here we are dealing with the implementation of the directives of the European Council. These are Directives of 2017 and 2018. A little late, but perhaps well, given the experience of recent implementation, transposition of directives, because the third part of this submission is actually, as you have said nicely, the completion of transposition. This complement is in fact the correction of the errors that occurred at the implementation stage of this Directive in 2018 in the law that entered into force. The provisions of the Tax Code on cross-border schemes for this implementation are still not in line with the European Union Directive. As a consequence, by an apparent error in the art, the error of the Ministry of Finance in terms of lack of records, incorrect records in the ordination, cross-border schemes reported in 2019 are today annulled. I don't know how much it is, but I'm guessing about $2,000. That kind of information. Tax payers, tax advisors will in fact be forced to re-submit them. And let me remind you once again that during the legislative work on the Act in October 2018, we indicated that the MDR rules are poorly prepared, imprecise. I would also remind you that the National Chamber of Tax Advisers indicated that reporting of cross-border schemes differs with regard to the provisions of the Directive and the provisions of the Tax Order. That's not enough. Those tax advisors referred the matter to the Constitutional Court, and you were deaf to the remarks. The question is whether someone has been responsible and who will compensate entrepreneurs for the additional costs associated with the re-production of reports. For the last four years, I've kept saying that you're writing law on your knees, that you're not consulting the environment, that you don't listen to the comments you're making. I can tell you there's a swallow, because as far as this bill is concerned, it's been a long time to get a closer look at it. The subcommittee had some time to work, including the commission. The number of legislative comments was surprisingly large. This, too, should give the ministry some thought when it comes to the legislative process, the preparation of the law. However, this does not change the fact that, in fact, in all these activities undertaken by the Ministry in recent years, there is no comprehensive, systemic approach to Polish taxes. The thing that really hurts me is that you threw out the work of the General Tax Law Code Commission. I would like to remind you that in 2015 the assumptions were adopted and then the law was adopted by the Ministry, there was consultation. She entered the Sejm of the previous term of office this law, very, by the way, cut and changed, but to this day we are looking forward to it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, I think it would be very important for me, given the protection of the rights of the taxpayer, because the rights of the taxpayer are being violated at the moment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u108	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u109	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This draft law is an adaptation of Polish law to EU law, including one of the directives of the Council of the European Union of 2017, called ATAD 2. It is not known from now on that some international entrepreneurs avoid paying taxes, such as tax evasion. specific ownership structures and benefit from the same costs deducted from the tax base in different countries. That's how they avoid paying taxes. I am pleased that the European Union is taking real action to prevent such practices, and it is good that Poland finally adapts its right to EU law. The Ministry of Finance calculated that this bill would produce a positive result, an effect on the budget of nearly PLN 900 million. That's a lot. Therefore, the question arises as to why it is so late, since the ATAD 2 Directive should be implemented by 31 December 2019 at the latest. That means it can't be explained by a pandemic, a crisis that's been going on lately. It is six months of delay, and six months of delay means a loss to the budget of about PLN 450 million. It's not the only tardiness of this government when it comes to corporate taxes. In July Ub. The Ministry of Finance announced the drafting of the Digital Tax Act for global Internet giants, so-called. GAFA, which is Google, Amazon, Facebook and Apple. The European Union and the OECD are considering introducing such a tax, but this does not change the fact that some countries have already introduced such a tax, for example France - 3% , or recently Czech Republic - 7% from the turnover, from the sale in the Czech Republic. Interestingly, despite the earlier noisy announcements, the government quickly withdrew. In September 2019 President Andrzej Duda met with US Vice President Mike Pence and, interestingly enough, Mike Pence expressed his gratitude for Poland's rejection of the digital service tax proposal. For Poles and Poles it was a surprise why we learned this from Mr Mike Pence, and we did not learn this from the representative of the Polish government. Meanwhile, President Duda's law firm got water in her mouth and the case went quiet until April. This year it turned out that we lack money to fight the crisis, and Prime Minister Morawiecki changed the front and announced a return, and here I will quote, previous ideas that Poland has underlined for more than 2 years, such as digital tax, financial transaction tax, carbon footprint tax or the unique idea of the Visegrad Group, such as tax on large international corporations. These ideas are intended to bring tens of billions of euros of new resources into the European Union budget for the fight against the coronavirus. Great, Prime Minister, that's a very good idea. However, the problem is that there is no action behind this, either at international or at national level. Prime Minister Morawiecki said he was waiting for solutions from the European Union and the OECD. There's nothing to wait for, Prime Minister, because we have a crisis. It is now time for real action when it comes to taxing companies that avoid this tax. But you won't. You and President Duda are kneeling to Donald Trump, you can't tax the corporations that make a fortune in our country, and you're still spending an additional 35 billion PLN on buying F-35, in a time of crisis, when we need this money for nurses and people being fired. In times of crisis, when we have a budget gap, you help American corporations. It's time to get out of those knees or your knees will crumble. Time for a wise fiscal policy that will serve Polish society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u110	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u111	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The revision of this law and the introduction of new rules in line with the EU Directive are intended to prevent tax avoidance practices and to make EU Member States more resistant to the so-called "non-tax" practices. international aggressive tax optimization, in other words, will protect the European Union's common market from the activities of international corporations that raise significant capital by exploiting differences in Member States' legal, tax systems. These systems are not uniform, which is understandable, which is why they need to be brought closer to each other in order to eliminate practices in which Member States are deprived of the possibility of collecting tax appropriate to the scale of the economic activities that are in the country concerned. In addition, the draft law aims to improve and harmonise and seal the current VAT system. This will be implemented mainly by harmonising the so-called regulations. chain transactions, simplifications and harmonisation of the rules on the use of shipping warehouses, which exist in cross-border trade, as well as the obligations to provide Member States' tax authorities with information about tax schemes implemented by registered companies in Poland. The reservation raises the delay referred to in the implementation of the EU Directive. The deadline for its implementation in Poland was 31 December 2019, so we have some delay which results in financial consequences in terms of the amount of tax revenue to the state budget, as the previous speakers said. Of course, every country is seeking to increase its influence, especially if it concerns foreign companies. It is therefore good that this directive will be implemented, as I said, with some delay, but it is needed to improve the collection of taxes, as well as for the clarity of the entire financial systems within the Single European Market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u112	Thank you very much, sir. And please, Mr Artur Dziambor, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u113	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Every time in this Seym we begin to think about any tax changes, I am terrified because I know that now a strong team is preparing to enter our pockets. I wanted to start with what I heard from one video yesterday. President Andrzej Duda, your president - you don't really know who, because here one person is sitting, I see six extra people here, seven people representing camp Andrzej Duda - he met with one of his constituents, maybe sympathizers, I don't know, or maybe not, during a meeting that was absolutely not an election meeting, because it is known that as Andrzej Duda goes somewhere, this is not an election campaign. And there this man, he was a retired man, accused him that you gave him 900 zł of the 13th pension, and 1200 zł costs him garbage disposal after the changes that were made. What President Andrzej Duda said in full seriousness, using the authority of his office, he said: Dear Sir, 900 zł you received it from me and from the government, and the trash charge was introduced by the local government. [[Applause]] The fee, this 900 PLN for pensioners, is about 12 billion PLN, so with 120 ministers and vice ministers - together with the president it is 121, round it to 120 - it comes out 100 million PLN per head. Ladies and gentlemen! If you'd be so kind as to give me a phone call to a man who does this kind of work where you can have so much... Because since you funded your 13th pension, I understand you had it in your bank account and you wired it to the pensioners because that's what President Andrzej Duda said. I'm a little scared. Unfortunately, that's what it looks like. That's what it looks like when you talk to PiS about taxes. You're proud of great success every time, i.e. Every time we're cocked by the fact that the thirteenth pension you introduced and gave, the 500+ you introduced and gave, the 300+ expedition you entered and gave. And I have here a list of 35 taxes, fees, danin, contributions, funds, everything you've come up with. And we have things like bank taxes, insurance taxes, commercial taxes, gallery taxes, etc., etc. The list goes on. Capacity fee, issue fee, water levy, quality fee, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen! All you do is tighten your belt, tighten it around your neck, here's the muzzle on the Poles, and then you say, "Well, it's 500+, we gave you 500+, enjoy it, listen, you got it from us." The biggest problem we have is inflation. The inflation, which roared during the time when there was no epidemic, and inflation, which at this point will roar even more, when we leave this epidemic, because you can already see that you are unable to with your propaganda to break through how gigantic is the dissatisfaction of Poles with the economic situation we have at this moment. And as usual, you are quite restrained in the implementation of EU laws, so you are particularly comfortable here. Here the lady from the Left said that this will introduce an additional PLN 900 million to the budget. Well, of course you'll be looking for these ways. Now, all of a sudden, what the European Union is saying must be listened to. Pretty selective, but when it comes to tax evasion, it suits you beautifully. It's just that your party's shortcut shouldn't be from Law and Justice, it's from taxes and contributions. Unfortunately, the situation is that at this point, you are hostages of your own propaganda, because you must somehow please your constituents before the presidential election. We are already hearing about some crazy ideas for unemployment subsidies in excess of the lowest national level, which is already some bizarre departure in the case of handouts, because in the case of 500+ or thirteen you could still say that you care about society, you want people to have a little more at their disposal. Okay, but for God's sakes, putting unemployment pay in excess of the lowest national paycheck is the kind of trip I don't know who came up with, but somebody's gone crazy. As I said, you are hostages of your own propaganda and at this point also hostages of the European Union from what we see, because we are introducing it today, we are talking about it suddenly, today, precisely because the European Union has requested it, and it suits you. Because this tax trouble is what's always gonna suit you. Instead of dealing with serious things, serious solutions, taxing Poles, you deal with making these taxes as much as possible, but also to make it as effective as possible, because if there is effective cheatability, then we choke, but the government will always be okay. The conspiracy of this dictator will never surrender and we will be here. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Every time they're against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u114	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Monika Pawłowska, Lewis. One minute. There is no Member. There is no Member. Mrs Monica Falej, also the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the face of the economic crisis, many entrepreneurs live in constant uncertainty. They don't know if they're gonna get away with it, but they don't know what kind of legal environment they're gonna be operating in, and they're gonna be doing their business. Does the government have a clear and long-term tax strategy? Does the government have a tax strategy developed during and after the pandemic? If so, please give it and betray it when it will eventually be made public, because Poles and Poles simply need to know it. To be able to focus on the struggle for survival, they cannot constantly adapt to the changing regulations, recommendations and guidelines presented overnight. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u116	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, also the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, Poles and Poles must survive and face three crises: the epidemic crisis, the economic crisis and conservative governments. This economic crisis is already being changed by all cases. The bill submitted is to seal the tax system, which is to increase the revenue to the budget, the famous budget, which was to be a balanced budget. Fortunately, thanks to the epidemic crisis, the government no longer has to pretend that it has ever been sustainable, but this budget still has to maintain the expenditure rule. This directive also introduces certain limits and limitations. How does the government intend to fit into the expenditure rule and the tightenings imposed by this directive in the face of the crisis [[♪ The bell ♪]] Epidemic and economical? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u118	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u119	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have pandemic time, it is important for everyone to stabilise, and we, although we have had a lot of time for this, are just talking today about a bill that we should adopt on December 31st. This law is only a transposition of EU law on an important issue such as tax avoidance or VAT issues in the field of foreign trade. That's why I'd like to ask you why the government has waited so long, while other laws can be converted at night. Back when you had your Senate, these laws ran between the building and the building, and at night, decisions were made. Today you remembered the duty you were supposed to fulfil by December 31st. On 5 February you started to process, today it is 27 May, a pandemic period, a period in which everyone (the Bell) wants to feel safe, and we are proceeding over a law that we should actually close on 31 December 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u120	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u121	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Creating a quality law requires a serious approach to the legislative process. Your lack of serious treatment of the implementation of the EU directive ATAD 2 has caused that the provisions contained in this Act have not been subject to public consultation. Given the number of obligations imposed on the taxpayer, I would like to ask if you have the impression that the Member State, which is Poland, places the obligations resulting from the directive on a private entity which has not been implemented in a timely manner in Polish legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u122	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u123	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! He's already mentioned to my friend that it's de. In fact, the second approach to the implementation of this Directive. I remember the first failed implementation. The state stood behind him and it seemed that you ate, colloquially speaking, all your senses. It turned out to be a failure. The question is whether an audit was carried out concerning the preparation of this law. How did it happen that these specific financial expenditures on both the state and business side were lost? Who's responsible for this? Please respond in writing. The second question concerns, I would say, international relations, namely the digital tax on world giants. In fact, there was a moment when the government went through this, and then after the reprimand at the embassy of one of our friends, it turned out that the government was withdrawing from the digital tax, but this is obviously, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd say it's a policy on your knees. The question is whether the government intends to rise from these knees and introduce a tax on giants who earn billions of zlotys on Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u124	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u125	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are practically at the end of May 2020. You had until the end of 2019 to implement the EU Directive in your national legislation. The Act introducing changes in taxes cleared in the annual cycle during the tax year is standard for your governments. No wonder, then, that once again Poland's position in the ranking of the most business friendly economies falls dramatically. Tax issues are one of the most important barriers to the development of entrepreneurship in Poland. Why has the proposal for a directive of the European Union not been subject to public consultation? Now you're in a hurry when the Union's reprimanded us. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Aren't you just ashamed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u126	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u127	Dear Marshal! Mr Cichoń pointed out the errors of this solution. We have pointed out that the previous cross-border schemes that entrepreneurs were supposed to prepare are going to the basket. Critical applications, which were prepared by the government before 2015, have also been amended several times. You had a big problem with that. In view of the current tax schemes, the directive and the entry into force of this solution, which we are looking at today, I would like to ask what new date you will indicate for the entry into force of the law. Previously, the proposed deadline for July, August, does not agree to the current conditions and will not be met. (BELL RINGING) We are in the middle of a procession, ahead of us the Senate and a return to the Sejm, so this deadline will not be met. What's the deadline, and who's responsible for the job they paid for, having to go to the basket and getting new patterns prepared by entrepreneurs? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Michael Szczerba. There isn't. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The tax system in Poland is inefficient and unfair. It is primarily unfair to our native actors, especially the small ones. It's about companies with revenues below 50,000. per year. They pay from 30% to 60% of their revenue in the form of taxes. My friend from the left club Anita Sowińska asked about American digital giants who do not pay taxes in Poland. I'd like to ask you about foreign trading networks that have multi-billion-dollar revenues, and these taxes don't pay. Are the current regulations to address this problem in any way? Companies such as Auchan, Tesco, Macro Cash and Carry, Intermarche, Nature Drrogeries did not pay last year and previous years, nor did they pay tax dollars. Commercial networks generated PLN 231 billion in income last year and only paid PLN 1.6 billion in income tax. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What is the government going to do with this problem? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u130	Thank you very much. Your Marshal, we didn't use the time, and I wanted to ask Mr Lewis a question. But you can't ask Mr Lewis a question. I am very sorry, sir, but you can only ask the applicant a question. You'll have to ask that question in the roundabouts. Good. I would, but the rules don't provide for that. Please take the floor of the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Mr Jan Sarnowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u131	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As regards the questions raised by your Members, I would first of all like to stress that the provisions implemented, implemented and implemented in the legal order of the Directive aimed at implementing them were the subject of a public consultation last year. In August 2019 the same rules, only under other prints, left the Ministry of Finance, then passed through external consultations and the entire government path. In October, November, due to the principle of discounting Parliament's work, was not presented to the High House. I answer questions about errors in the art of reporting cross-border schematics and whether Poland, without waiting for a pattern of reporting international optimization schematics, did not hurry. I would like to remind you that Poland introduced an obligation to report optimization schemes in January 2019. The European Commission identified its reporting model in March 2019, i.e. 3 months later. After 3 months, when Polish taxpayers started reporting these schematics. What were the consequences of this reporting? Based only on the impact assessment and the planned increase in revenue, an additional PLN 762 million per year appeared in the budget last year. This only applies to reporting national schemes. This is a matter of what has been reported and any checks that have been carried out on the basis of this. In addition, a significant preventive effect was achieved, which translated into an increase in tax revenue last year. I would like to remind you that in 2019, with regard to January data, because we still do not have full data from annual accounts - annual accounts have been shifted by a few months - the increase in the income tax impact on individuals was around 10% , a total of 11.2 billion PLN more, and with CIT - about 15% year to year, i.e. from 2018 to 2019, PLN 6.6 billion. An additional PLN 735 million is to be achieved through international cooperation and the exchange of information on cross-border optimisation schemes. The question arises as to the situation of Poland compared to the situation of other countries when it comes to the exchange of such schemes. Poland is not the only country that has not yet implemented this regulation. There are 10 other countries of the European Union that have not done so either, and they are also large countries, such as: Spain or Italy. Given the rhythm of the work in the European Commission, we already know that there will be talks going on in order to move the start, report and communicate information between countries at all, also due to difficulties in the work of the tax administrations of other European Union countries, especially those most affected by the epidemic, forward, by six months or even a year. So that it may turn out to be a post factum that Poland did not violate these terms. As to the question concerning Poland's strategy, especially the tax strategy in the face of a pandemic, this strategy was developed in the Ministry of Finance. It was communicated by the Ministry of Finance. This applies to four spheres, above all to the liquidity support of companies. Here we are dealing mainly with the withdrawal during the payment of advances on taxes. Only contributions so called. PIT-4 is an additional PLN 8/9 billion more in the pockets of entrepreneurs, and it is those who employ employees. The deferral of the annual tax settlement obligation is another 20 billion PLN de facto free credit, increasing the liquidity of companies. In addition to liquidity support, the Ministry of Finance focused on deferring its obligations so that companies would not focus on administrative obligations and could focus on saving their business potential. Another element of the ministry's action is tax support to combat epidemics, in particular tax changes aimed at facilitating the transfer of gifts, supplies of goods necessary to combat epidemics, such as. measures... and at the end of the tax reboot of the economy. Already, provisions have been put in place on the possibility to settle losses backwards, losses (the 2020 bell with revenue for 2019, record. The remaining questions will be addressed in writing by the Ministry of Finance. Further explanations will also be provided in writing on the broad tax strategy for combating the epidemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u132	Thank you very much. The committee rapporteur, Mr Piotr Polak, wanted to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u133	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, as rapporteur, as President of the Permanent Sub-Committee on Taxation, I would like to thank all of you for the broad discussion on this subject today, a subject that is not easy and needs a detailed analysis. The subject of taxation is always emotional, but I am personally pleased that we have approached the subject in a substantive and responsible manner at the meeting of the subcommittee. I wanted to thank those ladies and gentlemen who attended the subcommittee meeting for their presence, but unfortunately not all members of the subcommittee attended. It has happened in the past that many amendments have been tabled, here we have avoided this. And even those representatives of the clubs or members who tabled these amendments did not always attend the meeting of the Public Finance Committee later. Hence, my call for those of you who have tabled amendments to defend these amendments or at least present them at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances. As for the detailed references to the questions asked, there are only two comments. There were voices that... In particular, one representative said that new taxes were not known what they were referring to, on what scale. Absolutely this draft law does not contain any new provisions which would introduce any tax, so I would ask for a substantive statement for the future, not to refer to the generally understood, broadly understood subject of taxes in Poland. Here's another topic. One question concerned the date of entry into force of the Act. Well, the Member who asked the question probably didn't know, but we have already tabled amendments, and I have these amendments, and one of those amendments that we will consider. probably still today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances, it concerns the date of entry into force of certain provisions of the Act. We are addressing the concerns of the Member, the President of the Committee on Public Finance, and the issue of the entry into force of the law to a certain extent, of course not in all, but in certain provisions, we will be discussing today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Once again, I wanted to thank everyone for their activity in the debate on this very important topic for our country, i.e. the tax system, and especially the subject of the implementation of EU legislation into Polish law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u134	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on the granting of public aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs (prints Nos 300 and 363). I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u135	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Sejm Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, I present a report to the committee on the Government's draft law on the granting of public aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs, print No 363. At its 11th meeting on 29 April, the Sejm sent a draft of this law as a print no. 300 to the Sejm Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for its consideration. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development at its meeting on 5 May considered this proposal, including 11 amendments tabled during the examination of the law, which also received the support of the Minister for Development, as they clearly improved and strengthened the economic effects of the law, reducing the formal and bureaucratic burdens of companies. 12. the amendment was rejected by the committee, but the applicant submitted it as a minority request which was attached to the committee's report. The Committee on Economic Affairs and Development requests the High Sejm to approve the draft law presented in print no 363. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u136	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u137	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law presented by the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development in print No 363. This law is not ad hoc, it is not due to the current pandemic, but it is a system act and was long awaited by business environments, from small to large companies. The Commission, adopting the amendments supported by the government, has further strengthened the possible economic effects of this law. The Act offers great opportunities for rescuing, supporting restructuring and restructuring companies in the form of state aid. According to the information provided by the UOKiK, it does not require additional notification to the European Commission. The expenditure limit is significant as it amounts to PLN 1200 million for a period of 10 years, starting from the last quarter of 2020, to 2029, to PLN 120 million per year. 69% This appropriation is intended to cover loans, 2% - for costs, other resources - for non-refundable support. Let us remember that economic activity is always a big risk. Entrepreneur's condition is once better, once worse. A number of different types of measures have been taken to encourage entrepreneurship, including through support for the vocations of companies and their initial development. This law goes against companies already in operation, which are often in trouble without their own fault. Entrepreneurial policy should therefore also give an opportunity to get out of a difficult situation. Therefore, this law introduced by the government is happy and I think it is very necessary and prospectively shows that this aid will last for a certain, longer period of time, because it is spread over 10 years. The Law and Justice Club therefore supports this law and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u138	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Waldemar Slugocki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u139	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the pleasure on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club to present the position of the club in relation to the Act on the granting of public aid for rescuing or restructuring Polish entrepreneurs. This is an extremely important law, which is, of course, expected by Polish entrepreneurs. However, we must bear in mind that this is a law, which is a consequence. so-called. the policy of a new opportunity which was adopted by a resolution of the Council of Ministers on 22 July 2014. This is aid consisting in providing support to Polish economic operators from the state budget, but, of course, in accordance with the decision of the European Commission, because we must be aware that Poland has been operating in the European single market since 1 May 2004. This decision took place on 29 August 2016. This is Decision C 369 of 7 October 2016 published in the Official Journal of the European Union. While we have had the pleasure of discussing many important points in this regulation during the committee's work and, together, we have managed to improve a lot of issues - for this I would like to thank both the Minister and the current representatives of the development department - I would like to say this consistently, because I mentioned this in our first debate in the plenary room, but I mentioned these comments, suggestions also during the committee work, once again to draw your attention to very important facts. First of all, we can't fix this anymore. Today is the 27th day of May 2020. In my opinion, this bill appears too late and we discuss it too late, but it's certainly a good thing that it is. Secondly, please note that this is, of course, a multiannual regulation. It contains a certain financial assistance of PLN 120 million per year over the next 10 years, starting in 2020, i.e. this year. Please also note that, yes, this law is not directly correlated with the epidemiological situation we have in Poland today, but in the policy of the new opportunity that the government refers to in the explanatory memorandum, it is clearly stated that the programme includes a number of instruments of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, depending on the degree of risk of the crisis. We have a situation in which there is a crisis. Therefore, my next request, attention, suggestion - I hope that this will be possible, Minister, at the stage of work in the Polish Senate - concerns, however, to consider two important aspects: on the one hand, the issue of increasing the annual allocation of funds to help Polish economic operators, and on the other hand, taking into account this situation, the particular situation, the specific situation that these annual allocations do not necessarily equal, that in 2020 and 2021, 2022 these financial expenditures would be relatively higher, because the scale of the players at risk of falling in Poland will be much higher today than in future years. One more thing, ladies and gentlemen. Please note that globally this amount amounts to PLN 1200 million. We can say that from the point of view of absolute figures it is impressive. But this is much, much less, because I would remind you that only this year the government has allocated PLN 2 billion to support propaganda in the public media, and we are talking about 10 years and the amount of only PLN 1200 million. Minister! I urge you to look for more money for Polish entrepreneurs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u140	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u141	Thank you. High Izbo! This bill, as the chairman of the committee rightly pointed out, is not an ad hoc act. This is a law which, on the one hand, is the development of old government projects of the previous government, on the other hand, is intended to serve us for many years in the future. It's a good thing we're working on that bill. But I also think that since it is a law for years and for the future, it is good that we do not forget this lesson that we have been able to observe in recent months, looking at the Polish economy, looking at Polish companies. For years in Poland, the story was popular, that the entrepreneur takes all the risks and therefore neither the state nor anyone else should interfere in how he administers the profit gained in the way he manages it. We see very well today that we are taking this risk as a whole society. If we are talking today about instruments such as aid to businesses, if we are talking today about instruments such as the temporary participation in this Act, in order to help with restructuring, then we are really talking about the principle of solidarity. This solidarity must be mutual. This solidarity must work both ways. It can't be that when there are problems, business is reaching out for public money, and when the sun lights up again, business lobbyists are going to say that they have the right to make profits to tax havens, that taxes should be abolished and that they should not talk to everyone about how to organize work in their business, that they should be able to inspect work from deciding how much workers are supposed to work there. Yes, sir. It can't happen again. I hope that such fossils of archaic paleoliberalism as the rapporteur here, [[Applause]] we just say goodbye to the Polish public debate and stop taking it seriously. But since we decide to help in public, since we decide that the money from the state budget, that is, the money collected in most of the taxes paid by Polish workers, should be supported by companies, it must involve conditions. That is why the Left proposed an amendment during the committee's work. If a private company is applying for public aid, if it is applying for money from the state budget, we want to introduce a reduction in salaries, bonuses and bonuses for the management of this company. Because it can't be that public money will be eaten away by people who have often made some sort of mismanagement and which you now have to pull out of their problems. I hope that there will be a majority in this Chamber around this amendment, that, just as the neoliberal majority has been placed in the neoliberal committee over the divisions which have overturned this amendment in the defence of the presidents and in the defence of the boards, so will be here, in the plenary room, a pro-social majority who, in the sense of responsibility for public money, will vote this amendment to the bill and guarantee that the public money that goes to help businesses is not, as has happened in many countries, simply eaten over by the boards of these companies. We can't let that happen. We have many such examples, also in recent days. If you even look at the Wall Street Journal from the last few days, it is something that electrifies public opinion in several countries of Western Europe. Let's not repeat those mistakes, ladies and gentlemen. We have succeeded in drawing up this amendment at the committee meeting, which will be voted as a minority motion. I encourage all countries above the party divisions to support this amendment, to introduce this fuse into this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u142	Thank you. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u143	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! This is an important bill, a law that is a continuation of certain actions and a strategy, some thoughts that were started here a few years ago to help companies, help in difficult situations to prevent companies from being wound up, because it is easy to eliminate, it is easy to fire people, but later to rebuild something on this basis, on this basis it is very difficult. Today we are also dealing with a difficult situation, the one in which we live today, because over the years, for 10 and 20 years built companies, small businesses, family companies today disappear from the market, disappear from our economy. It is important to look for solutions that will help these companies survive. We're talking about money. This is a law that was previously prepared, the intention of this law, we are today only modifying these solutions. But it would have to be adapted to the situation we're dealing with today. At the time when the first draft of this law was based on the policy of a new opportunity, such dramatic situations as today rarely occurred. That's why I think the proposal that came out here to increase the amount of money, because it's not big money - 1,200 million per 10 years... We hear billions of billions every day. From this, ladies and gentlemen, 69% it will go into loans, as the rapporteur said. So it's going to support the entrepreneur, but it's not the money that's being given, let's face it, for the company, it's going to be the loan. And that's important, too. I think we need to look for solutions today, because when this law was notified, there was a different economic situation in our country and in Europe. Today, there are conditions to increase the amount of funds, the more that we hear all the time how huge financial potential can be addressed, is aimed at helping entrepreneurs. So the point is whether or not to re-evaluate it and focus these measures, these actions, these concrete three solutions that have been proposed more on this ad hoc aid. Therefore, it is good that there is consensus, it is good that during the committee's work this project did not arouse any emotions. He didn't arouse any emotions, because it's, like I said before, necessary. If there is a chance, if the entrepreneur sees an opportunity, he will present a rational restructuring project, he must be helped in every way to keep this business going, because we are in a difficult situation and every company, every workplace should be protected. Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland will support these actions and we will vote in favour of these solutions, although we will continue to look for good proposals that come to us from entrepreneurs, from companies, there are some proposals every day. It should not be rejected, but it should lean on every proposal, sometimes it may be strange, maybe not completely understandable, but there is always some logic, some thread. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u144	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Well, I have the opportunity to present the position of the Confederation's circle on the draft law on the granting of public aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs. Dear Government Party! I'll talk to you first. You are proposing in this project a number of instruments for companies that in fact already have indications that they will be bankrupt. You are proposing solutions that are based on a number of assumptions that are almost impossible to meet. You also had three years to implement the decisions of the European Commission. It was only the coronavirus and the whole crisis that made you do your job. This project is essentially for micro and small enterprises. Of course not only because medium-sized entrepreneurs can benefit from this. But given the demand of such a medium-sized entrepreneur for finance that is needed for restructuring, will 120 million a year from the budget that is planned, be enough for restructuring at least one medium-sized entrepreneur in the voivodship? I doubt it. The project also includes interest-bearing loans for a period of 6 to 18 months, and in my opinion it is a little too short a period for companies, for example. The average ones, they were able to enter the market safely and return the money. With loans, it is also worth noting that companies have to prepare about 50% security in material form, and in the case of micro- or small enterprises this may be almost impossible to obtain. This will certainly be a huge problem. You also wrote in the project that applications for funding will be dealt with for up to 45 days. In the case of entrepreneurs who, as I mentioned earlier, are in fact almost in bankruptcy, 45 days is too long. Here 14 days would be an acceptable period, because it is a time in which the company is able to survive, in which the fixed costs, e.g. The workers or, I don't know, the electricity, they're somehow acceptable, they're bearable. So let's keep that in mind. It is also the issue of simplified proposals for restructuring. These are also extensive conclusions. So I believe that the direction in which you are going may be the right direction, while the implementation of this project which you have set up here, in my opinion, is not adapted to Polish realities at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u146	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u147	God bless, again. I took note of this new official: long-term ability to compete. What measurements do you have on this long-term ability? Further: ability to overcome social difficulties and - attention - market failures. Officials will determine market excellence or market imperfection based on their identification. Another flower for this new lexicon of the Republic of the third and half: general economic interest. What is that? Of course, the Confederation will be very pleased if Polish entrepreneurs are able to recover anything from this terrible system, which is based only on the fact that they are looting them. ZUS, IRS, various control tools. The old workers' and boys' inspections no longer play, but they have some new Euro-colchozo forms and this is the bane of the Polish entrepreneur. You guys are doing propaganda here. You brought a socio-economic disaster to the country under the pretext of a supposed pandemic, in the fight against a virus you know as much about as you read on your belt on the newscasts of alien television misinformation programs. Under this pretext, you bring disaster to the country and now you want to spread money from the helicopter. Minister Emilevich has already moved on to other activities, perhaps this helicopter is launching. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again: we will support the opening of every gateway which will allow Polish entrepreneurs to ease something, but we cannot support this Eurokolozowo new speech, whose fruit (The Bell) the rapporteur presents. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u148	Thank you. The questions were addressed by 19 people - ladies and gentlemen of Members. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Wiesław Buj, the parliamentary club of the Left, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have another draft law on the granting of aid to save entrepreneurs. The government wants to allocate 1,200 million PLN per year to this in the years 2020 to 2029, 120 million PLN per year. Analysts indicate that the possible aid needs for the next 2 years alone amount to PLN 2 billion. Does the government have a diagnosis of the number of entities and companies and the value of the aid? Will the planned amount provide such assistance and for what number of companies? The bill assumes that entrepreneurs will submit applications to the competent minister of the economy and the Industrial Development Agency. Will such dualism be helpful in the implementation and recognition of proposals? Will the two-track examination of applications mean that you will split half of the funds or types of companies? Are you on the team? [[♪ The bell ♪]] is the social representative to be involved to ensure transparency in the processing of applications?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u150	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! In April this year. There's been a 66% decrease in registration of new cars, and I don't know if you know that. In the European Union - about 76%. The national car industry, which brings together large, small, medium-sized enterprises, micro-enterprises, is on the verge of collapse. The supply chains have been broken, there are no orders. This requires an immediate and long-term line of support, otherwise we are facing a tsunami of redundancies and a reduction in wages. Please say: Do you see, as part of this planned public aid, an opportunity to increase this amount to PLN 1200 million per year in order to introduce a stimulus package in Poland for the domestic automotive industry? Without this support, without the promised by you, e.g. surcharges for electric cars thousands of people will lose their jobs from day to day, from month to month. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u152	Thank you. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u153	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You can see today that people according to the PiS are from different cops. Some are better, others are worse. The billings we're working on today show this very well. On one side we have a 4.0 shield in which, for example. For those who retire after 40 years, we limit checks and, on the other hand, we have this law, which we support as a Left, in which we do not limit salaries, bonuses and bonuses for members of the boards of companies who benefit from public aid. As a Left, we believe that the State should treat these entities in a clear, equal way, that the actors should be treated in accordance with the principle of social justice. Therefore, I have a question: Shouldn't the government say that a provision should be included in the Act which limits these salaries to members of the boards of companies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u154	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask the left-wing government and also the left-wing opposition: Do you know who the man of work is? You keep talking about a working man, that he's an entrepreneur, that's a worker - he's a working man, but I'm only 8 hours a day a working man, 16 hours I'm a consumer. Until I'm 18 and retired, I'm not a working man. I'm not a working man on vacation. The working man of me is a quarter. If a working man makes a cashier's fee, he's gonna lose four zlotys after work. That's why we have crises that govern left-wing ideas, take care of people who work. There's words coming from the PSL site. Entrepreneurs don't need money, they lack demand. We need to give money to consumers so that they can buy, not support entrepreneurs, but strive for people to have money, to reduce taxes so that people can buy money and buy. These people will buy from those entrepreneurs who do good and cheap things. This is the best control, not state control. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u156	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u157	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to know how many entities are able to benefit from this assistance in 2020, whether they can only benefit from Polish entities or entities that have their headquarters in Poland, but foreign entities are the owners. I will give an example of Leszna, where Leithäuser Polska SA is located - 200 people work there today - belonging to the German group Benvenuto. At the beginning of May, the plant was closed because three plants from this group in Germany had failed. 200 people, including whole families, sewing, say, clothes today found themselves on the pavement, were not paid for April at all. Even with their own money, they have to pay PZU right now. They just don't know if they're gonna get anything. The German side says that it will simply not help the plant in Poland. Is it possible to help such companies that operate here since 1996, and among others. Coronavirus in Germany is simply bankrupt today?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u158	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In many cases, rescuing companies will have a significant impact on the income and functioning of local authorities. I talked to entrepreneurs and local government officials at a video conference recently and asked them how they assessed the aid so far. I'll tell you, neither of them were thrilled. Local governments have indicated that they already have a 40% drop in PIT income. Entrepreneurs said it was not enough, it was too slow, it was not enough, this aid is generally late and introduced without any consultation every day. My question is: Do you see these consequences and will you compensate the local governments for these losses? And second question: Is the Industrial Development Agency, which is to carry out the tasks resulting from this law, operationally prepared to conduct capital entrances? Will this not result in neglecting others' responsibilities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u160	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When we read the bill, of course, it upsets the new official. To be honest, if there may be an instrument of support, then, of course, it will be, but there are instruments such as rebureaucratisation, such as the release of VAT, the release of trade on Sundays, deregulation, tax waiver. This would involve a much wider group of people, a much wider group of entrepreneurs and they would not need to be rescued later. I don't know what you're doing, that you're imposing these burdens, and then you want to save this group. But, okay, if that's possible, let the entrepreneurs use it. My excellent colleague, Mr Slugocki, rightly pointed out that this is only 1,200 million in 10 years, and for public media, you are giving 20 billion to propaganda. Art. 46 talks about it. Art. 18 talks about 30 days to process the application. It's gonna be a bell for every company. And finally, aid in the form of action. How will the State Treasury's ownership supervision be carried out here? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u162	Thank you, sir. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You are proposing another law on rescuing businesses, but it must be acknowledged that you have no equal in rescuing and supporting companies associated with you. Hundreds of millions of PLN grants to companies associated with Minister Szumowski's family, millions of zlotys for felertic masks for which you paid the ski instructor. Minister Emilewicz was right when she said that the coronavirus could be an opportunity for Polish entrepreneurs. She didn't just say it was for the piss-related ones. Instead of making more holes in the shields, talk to those entrepreneurs who are standing over the abyss. Minister, talk to the buyers from the border regions. Talk to people from Lubieszyna near Szczecin, with merchants from Świnoujście, from Osinów, from other places near borders. Today these people can't run their business because you've closed the line. Stop pretending you don't see the problem. Start talking to them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And answer the question when you're gonna pick up the grounders. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u164	Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The idea of this project, as in the case of shield laws, is right, aid to companies is needed and long awaited, but the execution of this project, as in the case of shield laws, can leave much to be desired. Therefore, caused by even the latest information from the Ministry of Health... Every morning we receive new views, as in the criminal series, only free media, Members of the opposition, Members of the Civic Coalition on the basis of parliamentary control provide them to us today. On this basis, I ask: Does this law provide for any control mechanisms to prevent abuse of these funds? How can we be sure that a minister's brother, a minister's friend, or a golf instructor will not benefit from this helping business? It's always gonna be like this. What are the mechanisms in this bill? Can we build them in there? Thank you. [[Applause]] That's impossible. Understand that this is impossible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u166	Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Government aid to entrepreneurs can be defined with two words: too late and too little. It's too late, because those most in need have already fallen or very seriously in debt to prevent the spectrum of bankruptcy. Entrepreneurs say your holes in the shields are a failure. Some have not yet received your promised 5,000. zł. Now another aid is being offered. It's just a pity that so few entrepreneurs will be able to use it. The annual limit of expenditure from the State budget for carrying out its tasks, as set out in the Act, is to be no more than 120 million. This is a ridiculously low amount, given the current and potential scale of needs. Why does the law not include a minimum amount of aid from the State budget? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why is there an apparent and not real help for companies again? Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u168	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u169	Mr. Private Mr. Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If you care so much about entrepreneurs, why have they been protesting on the street for weeks? Instead of listening to what they have to say, you're bringing a bunch of cops up against them, it would be better to say blue people if they don't have namesakes or degrees on their uniform. You're keeping businessmen without providing a legal basis. When Senator Bury and I stood up for them, the officers didn't care about our IDs, they pushed us, and they struggled, and they violated parliamentary and senator immunity. Why are you so afraid of entrepreneurs, people who support us all, so that the state can function? Is it because they are competition for you, and the right to be an entrepreneur is limited only to PiS party officers, as is the case in Szumowski's, Morawiecki's, Banasi's or your family, Private Mr Kaczyński? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u170	Pathetic. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u171	I hope I can finish my sentence, Marshal. If you can fit in time, of course. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another shield, a lot of bureaucratic records and a lot of promises, which are not followed by any record or amount expected by entrepreneurs. The bill provides for PLN 120 million per year. It's a drop in the sea of needs for small and micro-entrepreneurs. That's only 6% of what you put on TVP. Why so little, Prime Minister? Don't entrepreneurs deserve more? If this help were effective, they wouldn't have gone out on the street, they wouldn't have protested. They left because they were forced to. They've been treated like thugs. It is about time, Prime Minister, for real, effective and reliable help to entrepreneurs. Otherwise, you can't avoid protests. These people keep this country, they hold the government. They deserve real help at times like the crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u172	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u173	The rapporteur said that this law is a law that is not linked to this whole pandemic of fear that the government has started with all television and government and non-government. But it is this pandemic of fear on the basis of Coronavirus that will test this bill, because the first companies will die in connection with this situation. I have a question because I have not read or it is not written directly there, whether this law is also intended to protect the smallest, these tiny micro-entrepreneurs, who usually do not carry out their activities under the Code of Commercial Law, but for entry into the register of business. I'd like a written reply. Will this law also protect these entrepreneurs? We've got a lot of these entrepreneurs. We should be worried about them most because they're our citizens, our little family businesses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you once again to reply in writing whether this law protects entrepreneurs operating on the basis of an entry in the economic register. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u174	Mr Waldemar Sługocki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u175	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to make one more important question. I hope that it will be on vulnerable ground and will be analysed by you. I also hope that the deadlines will be shortened, because I want to talk about them. Formal assessment of the proposal - no longer than 30 days. Resolving formal deficiencies by the applicant beneficiary - 7 days. As regards the formal assessment from the point of view of a difficult, complex case, the assessment by the public body takes 45 days. However, please note that the minister responsible after considering the negative decision, the cancellation of the economic operator de facto, has 60 days to make the next decision. My request is to analyze once again, I ask you to do so, these terms and shorten them to the maximum, so that the time for verification and signing the contract is relatively short. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u176	Thank you. Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Art. Article 36 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (2) refers to possible restructuring aid in the form of participation in an increased share capital or participation in an increase in share capital by increasing the nominal value of existing shares or shares. Doesn't such action approach the company's artificially improving value in order to be able to sell it more expensive later? Isn't that just speculation? Every crisis, as we know, makes the rich even more wealthy, and the poor fall into even greater poverty and poverty. Does the government want to consolidate and strengthen the negative effects of the crisis? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u178	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The first question is the following, because we have an epidemic state at the moment, and so companies are already benefiting from the aid which is recorded in disc laws, better or worse, but it is. However, I have a question and I ask for a specific answer. Will the fact that companies will benefit from this assistance block the possibility of using the funds that will be included in this Act? There's a record that says you haven't been able to use any other help in the last 10 years. That's the first question. Second question. The amount of 120 million - here it was already raining - is about 7.5 million PLN per region. I say: region, I say: voivodship because my question is this: Did you talk to the regional marshals, with local governments, so that perhaps you could help this assistance by using funds from regional operational programmes and decentralisation? The Marshals know better which company to help (the bell) than the Industrial Development Agency. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u180	Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u181	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Since the draft law submitted has been so long-awaited, systemic and does not arise from the current situation, why was it submitted just now and why so late, especially in the context of a situation from which we cannot deviate, namely the epidemic situation and the situation of the entrepreneurs who found themselves in this situation? I'm not only asking why now, but I'm asking about the amount. Why 120 million? Where'd you get that kind of money? What does that tell you? What's the date, 10 years? Why are we even setting a deadline? As an entrepreneur, I would like to ask about the effects of this law on entrepreneurs and employees. Does the Ministry have estimates of how many companies, how many employees will be able to make real use of this aid? Please, despite the fact that this law is supposedly not related to the epidemic, with revised estimates taking into account the epidemic situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u182	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u183	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I was gonna ask that question, too. Where did the amount of PLN 120 million come from? Are there any restrictions? I know this has been negotiated with the European Union before, but I would ask for an explanation, because this amount is very funny compared to what we hear here practically every week. New shield, new, huge... We operate billions, they're flying left and right. Ministers may be more reserved. The Prime Minister has these billions, the President of the Bank offers us even more, and suddenly 120 million zlotys a year. Where such a low amount and whether there is no possibility, there is no chance to increase this amount, because these restructuring needs will appear overnight, because we have a specific situation, and as I said earlier in my speech, [[♪ The bell ♪]] This project was not related to the pandemic situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u184	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Krzysztof Mazur, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, will now speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u185	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I thank you for this discussion, although I have the impression that such an infallible sense of déjà vu that the issues that you spoke about in this debate were thoroughly discussed at first reading. I've already answered that. They were raining at the committee meeting, and I was answering them. But I understand that these are the requirements of democracy, that a slightly different composition of Members makes the same allegations, so I will answer again in the same way. This bill and this mechanism aren't something that's supposed to help companies at once. What we're doing today, how we're helping companies on an ad hoc basis, is an anti-crisis shield and a financial shield. If you want to get information about the speed of this assistance again, then from the financial shield that was launched on May 1st, already on May 4th, despite the fact that it was a long weekend, the May weekend, amounted to PLN 2.7 billion, between May 1 and 4th, to PLN 9,000. companies. This is the speed you are demanding, and this speed is guaranteed by the mechanism offered to companies today by the Polish Development Fund. To this day, the financial shield has helped 190,000. companies - from 1 May for the amount of PLN 37 billion. If anybody here today says the government isn't doing enough, too slow, then they're missing out on the facts. As far as the crisis shield is concerned, 4.6 million applications have been submitted so far and the amount allocated to the crisis shield is PLN 13 billion, to the PLN 37 billion I mentioned earlier in the case of the financial shield. These are the amounts that the Polish government is offering companies today to maintain jobs and to maintain liquidity. The mechanism we are talking about is a multi-annual mechanism for restructuring, hence time is not as important as this aid, and the amount is much smaller than that of PLN 100 billion from the financial shield and PLN 213 billion from the crisis shield. This is the first context. Second context. Unfortunately, gentlemen who have written theirs here, I understand, such a credo concerning the European Union... Interestingly, these skeptical voices about the new speech were not just from the mouth of Grzegorz Braun, Janusz Korwin-Mikke, which was not surprising, but also from Members of the Civic Platform. Once again, I'm going to show you what I showed you at the committee meeting. This is the red flag of this part of the law, which follows from the directive of the European Commission. If someone says that there is too much new speech in this law, and there is not enough legislation that you wish for, please direct these comments to the European Commission, make these comments to the European Union. As I said, the Confederation is, as I understand it, consistent in criticism, and in the case of the Civic Platform that talks about it, it is surprising to me at least. As for Mr Evening's voice, for which I thank you very much, it is precisely at the heart of the matter, i.e. This is rescue aid for companies that can use the financial shield and the crisis shield beforehand and if it doesn't help, and will continue to be in a situation that requires restructuring, then they can reach for this mechanism. It's an extra mechanism, not one that doesn't. If it is said that this can only apply to companies that have not received rescue aid in the last 10 years, it is precisely the aid from this additional source of restructuring aid, not financial and crisis shields. So if a company today, to keep liquidity, needs to reach for the money I talked about earlier, then maybe eventually reach for those funds from the shield, for the 120 million from the restructuring fund. With regard to the comments made by Mr Kulesz, it is 6 and 18 months to be reimbursed. This is clear from the guidelines of the European Commission, which cannot be changed. As far as safeguards are concerned, I understand that the Member has not pointed out that during the work of the committee we have changed them from mandatory to optional, and therefore this allegation is not justified either. As regards the question of dualism, there is no dualism here between the Ministry of Development or the Ministry responsible for economic affairs and the Agency for Industrial Development. It is the Industrial Development Agency that manages this restructuring process, not the Ministry of Development. With regard to Mr Zandberg's request to reduce remuneration for board members and key people in companies, we do not give our position here, as at the committee meeting. We think that's an interesting proposition. We leave the decision to the High House. As for the voice of Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke that we should rather give not companies but citizens, I understand that this is a great praise of the 500+ programme. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I didn't expect such praise from Janusz Korwin-Mikke. As far as the number of players is concerned, such questions have been raised, and according to our calculations the average is 1 million, so 120 million means 120 entities. As regards the question whether companies registered in the territory of the Republic of Poland but with foreign capital can apply for this, I answer: yes, it is possible, if the Industrial Development Agency gives such consent. As regards the issues of cooperation with the local government, we are very keen on this cooperation. Today is a special day, if that's the case. We have a number of meetings with the presidents, also in the context of helping local governments. We hope that this shield, which today Prime Minister Emilewicz proposed to local governments, is only the first step towards helping local governments during this difficult period. On the other hand, when it comes to cooperation with marshal offices and using these funds to help companies, it is not possible because marshal offices can only give funds to companies that are not in restructuring, and this is another mechanism. So for that purpose, the money that is... Thank you very much, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development Krzysztof Mazur: Excuse me, I have a list of questions here and I'd like to answer all of them, Mr. Marshal. Then I'll be very brief. With regard to whether the Industrial Development Agency has the appropriate competence to introduce this mechanism, I answer: yes, it has, it has done so in recent years. As for the protests of entrepreneurs, let me not comment on this. Mr Tańajno is not known at all as a representative of employers or employees in Poland. This is, as I understand it, some political action. The Ministry of Development, on the other hand, meets with protesters, and the Prime Minister also met with Mr Tanaño, and I think that such a dialogue is necessary. With regard to this reduction from 60 to 30 days - here the Member's request - we fully support this. As far as the ARP is concerned, as I said, the ARP has a lot of experience here. Finally, the final point. I've already told you about regional threads. Why this deadline, why 120 million, I've already told you. These are simply the guidelines of the European Commission and agreements with the Ministry of Finance, hence such a deadline and such a amount. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u186	Thank you very much. Would the committee rapporteur like to take the floor? Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, rapporteur for the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In view of the current political tensions, I would like to thank all Members of the debate on this law very warmly for the substantive discussion. Despite the various critical voices, I believe that this law is very much needed, also today. I think it will play its role in supporting our economic development. Those who criticize and say it's a big, extra entrance into the administration, into bureaucracy... Indeed, such public spending requires justification in the form of appropriate documents, but also an appropriate approach. The point is that there should be no reservations at this point in time when public funds are being spent About their fair sharing, their honest getting to know each other. For this reason, certain documents and actions are needed. And let us remember that even in 2004, when we decided to enter the European Union, we knew that this involved a little more bureaucracy than elsewhere, but nevertheless there are positive consequences for Poland, so we should not complain so much that certain documents need to be filled out. They are and must be for very many reasons: for typical reasons of state, tax, but also because there is a sense that these cases are actually very carefully investigated. The Act fulfils all these conditions. In my opinion, it is a good bill if the budget can afford it. I think there will be more resources to save entrepreneurs so that they can function safer. They have the means to launch. Now comes the moment that we also give budget resources to save them so that, when they fail, they still have a chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u188	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Chemical Substances Act and its mixtures and some other laws (prints no. 334 and 386). I ask Mrs Barbara Dziuk to submit a report to the committee. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to submit a report on the meeting of the Health Committee held yesterday on chemical substances and mixtures thereof and on certain other laws, print No 334. The law has been amended in connection with the provisions of the article. Article 61 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Regulation No 1272/2008 terminates the applicability of Directives 67/548/EEC and 1999/45/EC in the Act. Changes have been made to the provisions of the Chemical Substances Act and its mixtures. The provisions in which no longer functioning names are used have been repealed and new definitions have been introduced. References to the provisions which have not been in force since 1 June 2017 have been deleted from other laws and the wording of those provisions has been amended. Changes have been made to the information obligations relating to dangerous mixtures. Information relating to the adaptation of Polish law to Annex 8 to Regulation No 1272/2008 imposing an obligation to provide data on mixtures placed on the market and classified as hazardous on the basis of physical or health effects shall be collected by the President of the Office for Chemical Substances set up in accordance with Article. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 1 (3) of the law of the competent authority. The Act introduces regulations on how the President of the Office for Chemical Substances communicates officially with authorities of third countries, as well as with international organisations, institutions of the European Union, as well as with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. It should also be stressed that the bill describes the inspection and verification of certified test bodies which may be carried out at the request of the bodies competent for the control and verification of compliance with the principles of good laboratory practice. Institutions may directly request the Office to check and verify compliance with the principles of good laboratory practice by research units in Poland. The law amends the name of the administrative body from the chemical inspector to the President of the Office for Chemical Substances, which is due to the nature of the tasks performed. It should be stressed that the law is in line with European Union rules and is very much needed for Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u190	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will take the floor of Catherine Czochar. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u191	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the government draft law amending the Chemical Substances Act and its mixtures and some other laws, print No 334. The bill under investigation is an EU project. The need to amend the Law of 25 February 2011 on chemical substances and their mixtures (Journal of Laws No. U. z 2019 poz. 1225 and 2020 item 284 and 322) relate primarily to the conclusion on 1 June 2017 of a transitional period during which classification and labelling of mixtures may have been applied pursuant to the provisions of the European Parliament Directive of 31 May 1999 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations. The essence of the bill is to adapt national rules to EU regulations. Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the above-mentioned opinion. The bill and recommends its adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Rajmund Miller, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform club to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Law on Chemical Substances and their mixtures and some other laws, prints no. 334 and 386. In view of the expiry of the current Directive, the law adapts national provisions to the provisions in force in the European Union in this respect. It introduces an obligation to provide information to the European Chemicals Agency system, data on chemical mixtures placed on the market and classified as presenting a health risk. The Act also introduces a change in the appointment of an inspector to the President of the Office for Chemical Substances, leaving the scope of duties to date. The control institutions of these substances, such as the GIS and the Trade Inspection, also retain the existing role and competence. The Act adapts Polish law to European Union law and aims to increase control of harmful chemicals and increase the health safety of citizens. The Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform will vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act deals with a very important issue of human safety in connection with the necessary marketing of measures threatening the health and life of people. It is a matter of regulation in principle of the marketing and recording of these measures, marking and handling of the correct packaging. The Act is intended to establish procedures for dealing with different situations for this purpose. In view of the amendments made to this Act, amendments to other laws are necessary, and this mainly concerns changes resulting from the change of health inspection concerning the name of the supervisory authority. So far, chemical-related cases have been supervised by the chemical inspector, and according to the project he is to be overseen by the President of the Chemicals Bureau. Here is the question: Why do we appoint this president of the Office for Chemical Substances? At the time of the entry into force of the Act, the President of the Office will be appointed by a chemical inspector. It's what I said. It's interesting why the inspector can't supervise and the president has to. Is this about positions, functions? Therefore, I kindly ask the Minister to explain this publicly. After all, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you know that the absence of this change is savings and formally less changes both in the laws and in many regulations that will accompany it. The vast majority of the proposed legislation concerns the adaptation of national legislation to the solutions adopted in EU legislation. These are changes in naming, marking, classification and others. I wish that, in the future, when we receive this type of bill, we should be able to highlight what we are changing from the point of view of national legislation and what we need to change from the point of view of EU legislation. Member States will bear the costs of preparing national systems cooperating with the solutions developed by the Agency, in particular in viewing, analysing and making available the toxicological data collected under the scheme. The draft law does not specify the possible amounts of costs to be incurred for this purpose. In this respect, I also have a question about the costs of adopting the proposed solutions. The aim is not to generate additional costs that will apply to this law. The Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry requested the possibility to change the provision regarding the withdrawal from the fine of 50,000. PLN and 200,000. zł where the importer or downstream user has been intentionally misled. The House also proposes that a fine be imposed on registrants when they deliberately fail to comply with these standards. I therefore kindly ask the Minister to refer to why this has not been included in the Act. It should be recognised that this law contains a number of implementing acts in the form of regulations of the Minister of Health. We have a regulation of the Minister of Health, e.g. on good laboratory practice and testing in accordance with the principles of good laboratory practice. Therefore, taking advantage of this opportunity - today, apart from the Day of the Territorial Government, we are celebrating the Day of the Laboratory Diagnostics - I would like to make very cordial wishes to all laboratory diagnostics on behalf of my club. This year, due to the pandemic of Coronavirus, we look at laboratory diagnostics in a special way. Each test involves the work of a team of medical staff of a laboratory in which a laboratory diagnostic interprets, authorizes the results obtained and plays a key role. I wish these wishes to all laboratory diagnostics, but in a special way to those working in health care units. I also send my wishes to medical analysts, assistants, laboratory aids and recorders, because they in hospitals form together with diagnostics teams of medical diagnostic laboratories and work actively for the health of Poles. I can end my speech by saying that without their hard work, the health care system could not function properly in Poland. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u196	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, club of the Polish People's Party and Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 I present a statement on the report of the Health Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on Chemical Substances and their mixtures and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! During the work of the Health Committee, there were not many issues that were disputed or unclear. The only job done is basically the work of the Sejm's Legislative Office. There were, of course, expectations in the bill, among others. clarify to a greater extent the scope of the chemical inspector's competence, once the name has been changed, it will be the President of the Chemicals Bureau, which requires the designation of the competent authority or authorities responsible for the proposals for harmonised classification and harmonised labelling. However, the regulation remained at a minimum level resulting from the provision of the Directive. The change of name, nomenclature: from the inspector to the president, in my opinion, does not bring anything, on the contrary, I think that the previous nomenclature has given more character to the function performed. The revision was of course necessary to bring the existing provisions into line with the EU Directive. But whether it was necessary to introduce sanctions for the placing on the market of non-registered substances, especially as the penalty will be between 50 and 200 000. Evil? In view of the definition of a certain financial framework for penalties, I believe that a framework for registration fees should also be marked. Today it's 6,000. PLN for everyone, which - I think - is not fair, given the variety of entities which make such registration. Nevertheless, the club The Polish-Polish People's Party Coalition - Kukiz15 will give a positive opinion on this amendment. In the footsteps of the Left, I also join the wishes of all laboratory diagnostics who are celebrating their holiday today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u198	Thank you very much. Three ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. The first question is asked by Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Left Club, I ask for the amount of fines imposed on the registrants. Where did the money come from 50 and 200,000? Evil? For small and medium-sized enterprises, it is a homicide, and it is said that quotas have been modelled on other EU countries and their solutions. So I'm asking which countries, and I'm asking for a specific answer. And the issue of withdrawal from the fine if the user has been misled by his supplier. After all, it is a fraud if it has been misled by its supplier about the registration of the substance. If we want to serve law enforcement and justice in the pursuit of fraudsters, this is actually an invitation to criminalize this type of activity. I ask for an answer on how we are going to settle the issue of a withdrawal from the fine. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for you. During the work on this law, proposals were submitted by the Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry and the Institute of Industrial Chemistry. It was legislatively simple, technical. I would like to know whether you will take into account the comments made by these institutes at a later stage of your work. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u202	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club. There is no Member. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask you a short question, and I can see that... Just a quick question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the issue of the name is very important, but I have the impression that more important are the issues, I would say, of substance concerning specific actions. My question is the following: in many places in Poland dangerous substances are stored, threatening the health and life of inhabitants. Sometimes, I'd say, the ignition of these substances. Of course, the question of investigating the truth about how these substances burned down is the authority of the services, but the local authorities are struggling with these substances. There are decisions to remove them, but there is no way that someone can co-finance local governments, in a situation where they themselves have to decide to dispose of them, because someone who stores them does not want to do so. Therefore, the question to the Ministry: Are there work to equip local governments with a financial mechanism that provides funding (the Bell) when these hazardous waste needs to be disposed of? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u204	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Now I will ask for your reply from the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u205	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As you have pointed out, most of this amendment is the implementation of EU legislation that applies in all European Union countries and concerns the supervision of chemicals that may have a negative impact on human health and the environment. Such substances must be subject to specific supervisory rigors, a specific registration process so as to eliminate the introduction into the public space of substances which may be dangerous to the environment and to human health and life. Several questions have been raised about this amendment. And so Mr Szopiński asked if he had signalled a change of name: from the chemical inspector to the President of the Office for Chemicals. Ladies and gentlemen, this is only a change of name. The office was functioning, functioning and functioning, while the managing person was called the inspector. The inspector reminds us of the control attributes. The head of this office has never supervised or had the authority to carry out control or supervisory activities in relation to the area he is engaged in. Therefore, so that it is not mistaken to specify the name of the institution, we introduce a pure change of nomenclature, the inspector we call the President. This does not result in any financial impact or the need to employ any additional staff. There's 28 employees working in the office, and that's how many of them will be working after that shift. So that there is no need to be interested in whether it will bear specific costs. With regard to the list of all the provisions that we are introducing from EU directives or regulations to this act, I would like to say to you that the explanatory memorandum makes it clear which provisions of European law are being introduced into the draft of this amendment. This justification is very comprehensive and contains comprehensive information that is of interest to you. As far as the costs of adapting Polish systems to European systems are concerned, which will give the opportunity to use one coherent IT system, which will contain data on individual chemicals, I would like to inform you that work has been underway for several years on the integration of these systems and aimed at making use of this European system. In recent years, 800,000 have been spent for this purpose. PLN and today we are already at such a stage that the final possibility of using this common system will not generate any costs. The problem of penalties is a problem that you are very interested in, and we also discussed it yesterday at the committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, these penalties are comparable to those applied in other European countries which have implemented these provisions. The judgment of the European Court of Justice makes it clear that the use of substances which may be toxic to humans, to the environment, must be strictly punishable. So far, there has been only the possibility of ordering the withdrawal from the use of the substance, which is not the penalty appropriate for non-compliance with the law and putting the public at risk of adverse effects on those substances. Therefore, in carrying out this sentence, we introduce these penalties ranging from 50 to 200 thousand. zł. We say to, so it's not like anyone who doesn't keep the procedures gets a 200,000 penalty. Besides, these penalties will be measured by the court in court proceedings. For example, I would like to say that, for example. In Germany, this penalty is 100,000. Euro, in Slovenia - 60 000. Euro, in Hungary - 70 000. The euro, so our maximum penalty, which can be applied here, 200 thousand. zł, is a punishment [[♪ The bell ♪]] comparable. The costs of obtaining registration are also much lower than those incurred in other European Union countries. As far as the comments of the Polish Chamber of Chemical Industry are concerned, they were explained in the course of the public consultation and the Polish Chamber accepted these explanations. On the other hand, Mr Suchon's question refers to a completely different subject, which is not the subject of this regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u206	Thank you very much, Minister. Would the rapporteur like to speak? [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u207	Yeah, I'd love to. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for the great effort put into proceding the law, on the changes that adapt our legislation to the European Union's rules. I would also like to wish all the labs the best wishes, because this is a very responsible job. And I think that together, acting for the good and health of all Poles, we are able to endure all difficult situations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u208	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 6 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws (Prints No 172, 172-A and 387). I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health a report on the government draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. This law was examined in the structures of the government many months ago and, in principle, the continuation of this work was at the start of the new term of office. It is a law that citizens expect, above all, even more so, the part of citizens that is a potential patient, but also doctors, especially resident doctors, who have had some comments about how to train and acquire the title of specialist doctor. We must remember that a specialist doctor today is the basis of the system, because he is the entity with which the National Health Fund can conclude a contract, through various kinds of institutions, hospitals, clinics or specialised medical facilities. The Commission received a letter from the Marshal addressed to this project on 21 January. The first reading of the committee was held on 11 February. As the scope of the draft law was very broad, because it contained almost 150 pages of clean legislation, a subcommittee and subcommittee 11, 19 and 25 were established, so at three meetings, she considered the government project. Then yesterday, May 26th, there was a reading on the committee. At the committee meeting, during the examination of this draft, 30 amendments were tabled to the subcommittee. These amendments were different in nature. 16 of them were of a legislative, editorial or order nature, while 16 amendments were of a substantive nature. The Commission has proposed 12 substantive amendments. I do not want to follow this closely and talk about these amendments, but mainly these amendments concerned one important issue. Once, it was the flexibility of the specialization process, from post-graduate internship through residency and specializations in resident and non-resident mode, and - and this is a novel in our legal order - an opening to the possibility of treatment in Polish health services of doctors who do not come from countries of the European Union. These solutions in the European Union are known, countries have developed a timetable so-called. Nostrification of diploma or nostrilization of specialisation and this law, this amendment is also a response to this type of action. I must stress that we have considered above all the safety of patients, the quality of those doctors who want to treat patients and gain the right to pursue a profession, but also the systematicization of the confirmation process, i.e. nostrils. It's a lot of things. In the United States, the process is very complicated. With us, despite all the conveniences, it's gonna be complicated, too. However, since the generation gap between doctors of specialists and those who aspire is powerful, most doctors of specialists are over 50, 55 years old, we simply need doctors of specialists. Today, medicine is based, it can be regrettable, on a specialist, but the progress of medical technology is basically so complicated that you need to acquire additional skills, specializations, sub-specializations to be able to use this diagnostic equipment, this medical equipment to serve to save the health and life of Polish patients. First of all, this law says that a doctor who comes from outside the European Union must first have a diploma, a diploma from a medical university. Medical universities all over the world are located in different locations. We've had a university type for some time, but I was graduating from a professional school, a typical vocational school. The same school ends in the United States. You're gonna end up at a professional school where you can be a doctor. Other skills are kind of out of the medical sector. So the doctor who intends to have the right to pursue a profession in Poland must have five years of studies, which are equivalent to that system that we are conducting. The next amendments try to sort out everything that's worth tidying up. As you know, in Poland the right to pursue a profession, the right to the title of a specialist is conferred by the law by the medical self-government, i.e. the General Chamber of Medicine. This is a government task that has been assigned to this professional institution. And it's a very important thing. These provisions must therefore be very precise. The General Medical Council, although there are district medical councils, must supervise and keep a register in appropriate secure IT systems. Of course there are free trainings etc. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I did, Mr. Marshal... Thank you very much, sir. You're out of time. ...back to two controversial things. One controversial point is the amendment that spoke about consumption of the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling on the so-called 'city'. a clause of conscience. This amendment consumes in our opinion the ruling of the Constitutional Court of July 2015. Rzepliński, for example, was the chairman of the composition. Thank you very much, sir. I think that this amendment proposed by the committee is consuming this judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Please accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u210	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Czesław Hoc.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! It has been my honor to present my position on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and certain other laws, print No 172, 172-A and 378. In the process of this very important government law we were faithful to the principle of medicine: Salus aegroti suprema lex esto - The good of the patient is the highest law. The purpose and purpose of this law is to further strengthen citizens' health security and to show particular respect for the professions of doctors and dentists. At present, the difficult time of the global pandemic of Coronavirus has clearly shown that health and health safety are paramount to society. Thus, we have put in place many solutions and mechanisms for improvement and many facilities for doctors and dentists in deep compliance with this law. In Poland there are no doctors, it is also called. A generational gap. It's been neglected for many years. We're catching up at a fast pace right now. We increase recruitment for medical studies, make the salary of both resident doctors and specialist doctors more attractive. We've introduced the so-called. patriotic voucher for resident doctors, i.e. monthly salary allowance of PLN 600.700 depending on the choice of specialization to stop, among others. emigration of young doctors. But it's still not enough. Thus, in agreement with the General Medical Council, representatives of the OZZL Residents' Agreement, we have created a statutory opportunity for persons who have obtained a diploma from a doctor or dentist in a country other than a Member State of the European Union. With due care, we have ensured that the conditions for admission to the profession of these doctors provide a full guarantee of professional preparation. To this end, among others, it was introduced. a new type of exam - LEW, i.e. medical examination, organised by the Centre for Medical Examinations, the obligation to have five years of studies or to complete a training that meets the requirements of the European Union. And then the final decision of the district medical board, which will grant or refuse to grant the right to pursue the profession. Important practical rules have been introduced for conducting the medical final exam, i.e. possibility of prior admission to the exam, and introduced an open database of questions, 70% It's gonna happen again on the exam. New questions will be 30%. We have created new solutions for the procedure for recruitment of doctors for specializations, a system for increasing access to all specialized places in the country and a fair and transparent separation of them. There was also a new construction of regulations on post-graduate internship, among others. nationwide rules for qualifications, so-called Personalised traineeship, monitoring in SMK, i.e. a system for monitoring education. For the first time in the legal order, we introduce an optional PEM, i.e. a state modular examination, to which the doctor will be able to proceed after passing the basic module or after the end of the second year of the unit module, in order to provide real benefits for the doctor and the medical institution employing him. The principle of freeness of all specialization training in residential and non-residence mode has been established, as well as the possibility of carrying out certain trainings in the form of e-learning. An obligation of at least six months of specialization training has been established in the primary module of general surgery, internal diseases and pediatrics in county hospitals. Certain changes related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 disease are included in the system. A change has been made concerning the so-called. the conscience clause for the implementation of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 7 October 2015, which pointed out that the so-called "constitution judgment'. the information obligation should not be imposed Not on a doctor, not on medical subjects. Such an information obligation concerns public authorities and in particular the National Health Fund. Records have been clarified and some changes have been made to medical experiments, in particular the prohibition on certain persons, e.g. disenfranchised, deprived of liberty, prohibit the collection of any fees for participation from participants. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! Once again, I would like to stress that, in the interests of patients' well-being, we have, in the interests of strengthening citizens' health security by seeking a law on the professions of doctors and dentists, following an exceptional substantive discussion and debate of all the participants, thanked and showed great respect for the service and mission to date in health care, in particular for the excellent attitude of doctors and dentists in the current day of Coronavirus. We strongly trust that this government bill will definitely improve the status of a Polish doctor and dentist and strengthen the condition of Polish health services. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice strongly recommends that the High Sejm adopt a government draft law on the competitions of doctors and dentists.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u212	Thank you, sir. Mr Jerzy Hardie-Douglas, Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For years, the Civic Coalition has expressed great concern about the deterioration of the quality of health services, the availability of specialists and, above all, the deteriorating financial situation of hospitals. The weakness of Polish health care revealed itself in all its splendor during the inefficient fight against the pandemic. The current worsening health crisis has two main reasons: insufficient funding for health care, which has been wrong in itself. pseudo-reform health care, and huge shortages of medical staff, and above all doctors. The cost of treatment increases disproportionately to the increase in hospital revenues, mainly due to a significant increase in personal costs, and these are linked to too few doctors. The NFZ pretends that there is no problem, does not significantly overestimated the so-called valuation. procedures. This caused the treatment to stop paying off, and almost all hospitals are in debt. We spend on health the smallest part of GDP from all European Union countries. Germany spends EUR 257 billion a year on health and Poland spends EUR 28 billion, nine times less. Spain, which has only 8 million more citizens than Poland, redirects four times more resources to health. What are the consequences? According to various estimates, between 60 and 70 thousand are missing in Poland. Doctors. About 140 thousand of them. Every fourth worker has pension rights. This is a real drama. Less doctors out of 1,000. The inhabitants of our continent have only Turkey and Montenegro. The draft law expected by the medical community seems to go in the right direction. You have to try to stop doctors in Poland, create conditions for their return to Poland, increase the number of new doctors educated, let trained specialists in the healthcare system in advance and finally create opportunities to start work in Poland for doctors from outside the European Union. It is also important to make the training system more flexible. Most of these needs are being addressed by the law. Changes in the provisions on traineeships, flexibility in the approach to the medical final exam and the medical and dental final exam, the possibility of passing these exams early and the notice of the exam six months before it is carried out are beneficial. The introduction of a state modular exam will allow residents to enter the system early. It is also appropriate to publish a database of examination questions. A central chapter of free specialization places should be beneficial for those applying for a residency. On the other hand, the regulations related to the work in Poland of doctors from outside the European Union are controversial. The proposed simplified procedure for granting the right to pursue the profession to foreigners from outside the Union without the nostrils of a diploma is rightly contested by the General Medical Council. The Council warns against the possibility of reducing the quality of medical services and difficulties in verifying the actual knowledge and skills of this group of doctors. Of course, this shortcut should not take place at all, but the situation resulting from the doctor deficit is dramatically difficult and we are willing to support some of the new solutions. However, we do not agree to work in Poland de facto as specialists of doctors, who sometimes e.g. After only one year of training, they obtained a diploma from specialists in countries outside the European Union. If such solutions to the recognition of two speed specialisations are accepted, multiple medical errors will only be a matter of time. The Civic Coalition will propose an amendment proposed by the General Medical Council to tighten the criteria for the recognition of specialized diplomas. It's the first condition of the bill's support. The second is to return to the record of the obligation of the medical entity having an agreement with the NFZ where the procedure was performed to a person whose doctor refused to perform the procedure, referring to a clause of conscience. The doctor's profession law cannot be filled with worldview content at the expense of patients' well-being. That's what you're doing. If amendments are adopted, the Civic Coalition will support the bill by seeing its positive side, but it is only a small step in the right direction. Without a change in the financing of the medical sector and a significant increase in healthcare expenditure, the progressive health crisis cannot be overcome. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I'm making three amendments. We would like them to be processed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a very good government law and we want to support it very much, but you are trying to introduce a complete ban on abortion in Poland, so maybe I will remind you of the facts. Abortion is a medical procedure, a medical procedure like any other procedure, but above all an abortion as a termination of pregnancy is a benefit guaranteed by the NFZ. Every woman in Poland in three cases, due to the three conditions of the 1993 Act, should be entitled to remove pregnancy in every Polish hospital. You know as well as I do that now 10% Polish hospitals do not offer such treatment to women. In addition, you want to limit their ability to obtain information about where and how they will be able to legally terminate their pregnancy. We're talking about a case, for example. abortion for embryopathological reasons. You were talking about the Constitutional Court's judgment. This may remind me that the Constitutional Tribunal in its judgment of 2015 stated that a doctor referring to a clause of conscience is not obliged to indicate another provider, but that the hospital is to indicate another doctor or another institution to the patient. The Council of Europe Committee of Ministers also commented on the same issue. The left makes an amendment to restore this provision.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław... Excuse me, Mr Zdzisław Wolski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u217	I, as a representative of the Left until yesterday, was in favour of this bill, but unfortunately our colleagues from the PiS, just doing this drop-off, already calling things by name, abortion, have ruined everything. There was a compromise in the original project. On the one hand, we did not question, and as a Left, we could even exist in the law on the profession of a doctor's conscience clause. We've made our peace with it, but if the PiS has made it worse, the situation is unacceptable to us. The fragile compromise of the state, probably consciously, destabilized. The bill, like I said, is simply correct. First of all, it is strongly expected by the medical community, and it has been for many years. This government was repealing the bill, only organized protests of residents caused acceleration. The government, out of fear of residents, who - and other doctors too - sense the reluctance of the current government to one another, agreed to set up an expert team. This team began to work - doctors, experts, representatives of the Ministry of Health - and it seemed, in line with the promises made at the time, that this bill would be at least a year ago. There was waiting until the end of the previous term that perhaps at the last session of the previous term of office there would be a law. Nothing like that ever happened. Only this year, 10 days before the next talks with residents, the government decided to give us a bill. The finale will be tomorrow. I would like to add an important point to the reservations concerning the law. Two years ago, the government also committed itself to presenting us with a law on research and biobanking. He didn't do anything like that. Here is a warm appeal to the Minister that you should draft a very difficult bill that is important for the future of these matters, because, for example, the Transplantology Act only provides for a small amount of this. The issue is extremely important when it comes to genetic engineering, biomarkers, the functioning of our main biobank in Wrocław. This is the future of medicine. These are cardiovascular diseases, from self-aggression, rare diseases, that's even the basis for creating new drugs. We have capable doctors and researchers. They must be armed with a stand-alone bill, for which I strongly appeal in the name of the club of the Left, and not so pity some, and it is doubtful, to put the contents into the law - where? - about the doctor's profession. Yet, ending the last thread, because our predecessors also touched on this, our policy as regards doctors of foreigners from outside the European Union. We agreed - this is a kind of experiment, because, of course, on the one hand, we cannot shut down on these doctors, but on the other hand we cannot compromise the safety of our patients. The point is, there's no better doctors or worse doctors, so they're all the same. Perhaps these records after checking how they work in practice, we will change. I'm talking about doctors outside the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u218	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was honoured to make a statement on behalf of the club PSL - Coalition Polska on the government draft law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. Health care needs our support. Health care does not distinguish between us, does not distinguish between the right and left political sides, which often divide, lead to various disputes, but sees us equally, without regard for divisions. That's why it's so important to keep a cross-party agreement on such a sensitive subject. We should not make money in health care, in health care we should not raise capital and in health care we should not put the welfare of people privileged above the welfare of Poles and Poles, because it is the health of Poles and Poles that should be an absolute priority for us, because human life has no price and no other material or intangible thing can be put above it. The situation related to the coronavirus opened many eyes to the needs related to the lack of funding of medical institutions in Poland. It turned out that hospitals are underinvested, there is a noticeable lack of staff, and the equipment is no longer the latest generation. It is time to start changing, it is time to start a broad discussion on health needs and to really increase GDP for health protection to 6,8% GDP, as Kosiniak-Kamish has been saying for years. The future generations will not forget and will not forgive us for our lack of action, and it is time to act immediately. We can't afford another moment of corpse. As a member's club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 we consider the project to be worthy of attention and discussion. We look at and listen to arguments falling from the ruling benches, but we are also not deaf to the calls of medical organizations and social organizations. We also have our own proposals which, we believe, should be adopted under this bill. In the situation where we are, it is worth to show Poles that, especially in the field of health care, we can afford cross-party cooperation, which will result in an increase in the standard of work of doctors, nurses, paramedics, physiotherapists and all white staff, as well as all other workers saving our lives every day. Poles deserve modern, well-equipped and well-paid health care. Doctors, nurses, paramedics, workers who risk their lives every day should not worry about surviving for their salary until the end of the month or whether because of lack of equipment they will not expose their loved ones to illness. We must pay more attention to this and there is no doubt that this should be our priority in the near future. The time of the epidemic should serve us as an example that even the most advanced economies of the world, which had not previously paid attention to the health needs, were unable to fully cope with the pandemic. This should be a lesson to all of us for the coming days. Mr. Marshal! The Members' Club also makes four amendments. I will only quickly review what these amendments relate to. The first amendment, of course, concerns an additional salary for doctors who are chiefs of specialization, because it is a great sacrifice, it is their time for young doctors, for whom they are as teachers. And indeed for those doctors who are bosses, this money should be bigger, because they're doing it for our own good so young doctors can raise their skills. This is one of the amendments. The second amendment is quite clear: why does a man who already has one specialty and wants to continue his studies say he can't do that specialization on a residency? I know people, even from my year, who have completed one specialization in anesthesiology and want to do another, completely separate specialization. Why can't they be allowed to do this second specialty on a residency? Mr. Marshal! We make four amendments and make voting on this law subject to the adoption of these amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u220	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The doctor's profession is quite a particular profession. Once doctors had to take an oath of Hippocrates, and it should be regrettable that it is not there at the moment. That would simplify a lot of things. If the subject of abortion is discussed here, I wanted to draw attention - this is too extensive a subject to deal with within 5 minutes - for one aspect of the case. What a woman's right to decide about the life of a child who is a child Not hers, but a man as well? Scandal, scandal. Of course I do. And a woman should represent a man who will say, "I regard this child as my own, and I agree to kill him." The child has the right to inherit, the child in the fetus has the right to inherit. It's conceived. And of course, a man has the right to recognize a child in his mother's womb and has the right to... - in Roman law - but you have to give consent, because if a woman thinks she's the only one who decides, then why does she want alimony - why, if only a woman decides to have a baby? There's talk of money... Aliments from the day of conception. ...there is talk of money, but here it is noted that in Spain it seems to be a few times more health care than in Poland. And what are the consequences? What does Spanish health care look like at the moment, and how does Polish health care look like? It's not up to money, it's up to organization. As long as there's a state health service, it's a bottomless bag. We can hit billions there and it's only gonna get worse because they're gonna go to doctors, not people who want to cure people who want to make billions. Unfortunately, big money corrupts. And that's why you have to give the money as much as you need, in short, as much as you decide to give the market. We have to shut down the health care system, and people will have more money because they're paying for the doctor and the health minister and the NFZ, and that's how they'd pay for the doctor. [[Game in the O.R.]] You have the money and you can afford it, but a poor man can't afford to pay for his health care and then go to a private doctor. Of course. But if there was competition, the doctor would be cheap. Do you realize that for example.. In the BRICS countries, you pay six times less for medicines than we do for patient care? That's the situation. About the doctors. Doctors study in Poland for free and then go abroad and we have problems. Colleges, like any college, should, of course, be paid. The free market solves all the problems. And then let them leave. Tell that to the young ones. There are terrible problems right now. We educate doctors for the English, for the French, for the Germans, for the Spanish. Very many of my doctor friends are working abroad right now and are very proud of it. About the issue, the nostrils of diplomas. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible for competitors to issue certificates to competitors? Of course they'll be cut off. Of course they'll be cut off. There must be a situation where the doctor comes to Poland. In general, it is necessary to issue a bill that requires a diploma to be posted in the office, and even better on the outside door. Then a man would know where he's going. After all, someone has the right to go to a quack in Poland, right? If he can go to a quack, why can't he go to a doctor educated in India or Pakistan? It's just that a man needs to know who he's going to. It should be an obligation for such a diploma and a possible opinion of the medical board about this doctor to be posted in this office. But you can't take away a man's right to treat whomever he wants. A man can come to me and I can also give him medical advice for free or for money, even though I'm not a doctor of course. We're signing up. Maybe we shouldn't. Maybe we shouldn't. That's why no one came to me for medical advice... Well, that's not true. They come to me for medical advice, but, of course, not as a doctor. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, we've created our own problems. We created a monster, which is health care. That monster eats money. One-third of doctors work not in their profession, not for the sick, but in the NFZ, the Ministry of Health and other institutions. If they were eliminated, the doctor's queues would be immediately gone. The doctor's line would disappear immediately, because these people would have to starve to go and treat people. We created the problem of health care. And now: Socialism is a system in which you heroically overcome problems unknown in any other system. And that's where I'm gonna end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u222	Thank you. 25 people, ladies and gentlemen of the Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. As the first Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Piech! You're a gynecologist and you've done a lot of abortions in your life, and yet you're allowing me to manipulate facts, lies and pseudo-scientific information at the committee hearing you're conducting on this bill. In 2018 1076 legal abortions were conducted in Poland. 25 cases The risk of the mother's life, one abortion due to a forbidden act, 98% abortion due to embryopathological reasons. You're lying, you're lying, that most of these abortions are abortions because of Down's syndrome, and you know it's not because abortions because Down's syndrome is a minority, it's just the smaller part, and the larger part is abortions because of embryopathological reasons -- severe, irreversible fetal defects. And you say at the committee meeting that you can treat trisomy 18 or 13. Why do you allow such lies? You're here. It's a doctor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u224	Mrs Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u225	For Catholic fundamentalists, the day without trying to dirty Polish women is a lost day. Worst of all, there are such neoophists as Mr Piech. The words of the sick person are the highest right in your mouth are embarrassing words and it is difficult to listen to them. If the doctor does not want to perform surgery, blood transfusions, transplants or abortions, he should not learn this profession for the money of Polish taxpayers, nor should he take a salary and work in public health centres. My question. You did an hour yesterday. 18 inserts of known content. Have you already notified the Committee of European Ministers? I ask because they demand that Polish women have the right to protection in Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u226	Thank you. Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The bill has been awaited for a long time, not only by doctors, resident doctors, but also by young students of medical art. Please state the reason why the Ministry of Health did not agree to the reduction of the fees for the medical final exam and the medical and dental final exam proposed by the left club. In particular, we are referring to the exams that future doctors take once again. In a situation where more than 65 thousand are missing on the Polish market. Doctors, creating entry barriers due to the amount of examination fees is an action that is not justified. Thank you. You gotta be kidding me. Exam fee? This is ridiculous.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u228	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I address Poles and Poles, your consciences and your right to decide about yourself. As for this House, I do not address the parliamentary majority and the projector, because you seem to have no conscience and no respect for fundamental human rights. You guys are still gonna vote out what's convenient for you and your business. Polish people and Poles! This government is carrying out an assassination attempt on your rights today, and at this point, it doesn't even have the guts to admit it. Therefore, in the Act on Competitions, doctors and pharmacists are not aware of the fact that doctors and institutions who refuse to perform a legal procedure will not be required by law to indicate an institution where a woman who has been raped or a woman whose life is at risk will be able to perform it. In the age of the Internet, you want... Imagine that the victim of violence, rape, physically and mentally insane, would have to walk from hospital to hospital, knock from door to door and tell his... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Just look in the phone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u230	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club. You don't have an MP? I'm here, I'm here. Good morning. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u231	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Yesterday, at the Health Committee meeting, PiS politicians were working again on a complete blockage of legal abortion, which is already very difficult to access today. What are you talking about? The removal of records that the doctor and the institution whose employee refused the procedure is required to indicate to the patient another institution which will perform the procedure is another attempt to restrict the rights of the Polish people. Already now, it is impossible for many women to make a legal termination of their pregnancy to rely on a conscience clause, and now you want to take the opportunity that public attention is focused elsewhere, and the back door, away from the camera lights, to push further restrictions. Come on up to the podium. Have the courage to look women in the face when you tell them that your worldview is more important than their health and their lives. Not telling you if my nose hurts, can I go to the laryngologist?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u232	Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The patient's well-being is the most important thing. Then I'm asking you, ladies and gentlemen, where the patient's well-being will have to call herself from hospital to hospital, from the NFZ unit to the NFZ unit, find out where the information about this... On the phone. Please don't disturb me. ...where he can perform a legal procedure, perform a legal medical service. Where's the patient's well-being if you're willing to put a doctor above her right to health care and medical care? You just think women are idiots. Does he pay contributions? He's paying contributions. She's insured, she's guaranteed a constitutional right to health care. So where's the patient's welfare, ladies and gentlemen? With this hopeless, senseless, and wrong recipe, you want to remove it. Isn't the baby a patient? Total crazy, really. Ladies and gentlemen! The patient's well-being should be most important to you, not the doctor's well-being. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u234	Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no need to kid yourself. The PiS strives that even mothers with severe foetal damage give birth to children, but it does not protect these families in any way, because it is known that 4,000. It's not enough for anything. And it is enough to mention today that even during the pandemic in Poland people with disabilities were robbed. In 2019 there was 110 million PLN for respite care, this year there is 80 million PLN. For care services - PLN 60 million, this year there is PLN 40 million. I'm asking why you're stealing from people with disabilities. Answer me. I don't know, let Mr Kaczyński answer, answer the Prime Minister, because you're just stealing all the time. [[Applause]] You stole from the Solidarity Fund. Mr. Duda just walks the markets and says people got their 13th pension. You have to say hard: they got their 13th pension, but they got it from the Solidarity Fund. People with disabilities were robbed again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u236	Mr Andrzej Szewiński, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project has far-reaching implications for the health system, for patients, doctors, dentists. There is no doubt that it is necessary to facilitate the start of young doctors, including from outside the European Union. I think that's a good direction for change. I won't comment on the so-called. The drop-offs that were introduced yesterday at the committee meeting. But will the above changes stop the doctor's economic emigration, or will they neutralise the problems of the inefficient health system that all citizens face? More than 70,000 are missing in Poland. doctors and we are at the gray end of the European Union when it comes to the number of doctors per inhabitant. But in my opinion, designers and the government should also lean on fundamental problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the hospitals whose organs... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u238	Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, once again, PiS is trying to completely block the possibility of legal abortion for Poles. Once again, he's assassinating our rights, the rights of Poles. You're trying to do it through the back door, changing it quietly at the committee meeting. You are trying to do this by tampering with the clause of conscience, by depriving Poles of the knowledge in which institutions they can perform abortion in accordance with the applicable law - draconian law, inhuman law, already today condemning women to harm and suffering, a law which you nevertheless want to do at all costs, by any means possible, to further limit. We're not authorized to do that. I call on the government, which is the applicant of this project, to answer the question clearly: do you support the change made by the Members and Members of the PiS, who in the Act on the Profession of Doctors deletes the record that the doctor and the institution whose employee refused the abortion procedure is obliged to indicate to the patient the place, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In which procedure will be performed? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u240	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u241	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I asked a question yesterday. You are trying to open a competition, you are trying to accept new doctors, you are trying to customize their diplomas, you are trying to allow medical practice in Poland. Doctors are missing. I asked yesterday and asked today a question - and this was the amendment made by my club - concerning additional employment in individual medical practices of doctors, dentists for replacement, permanent or ad I'm sorry, Why is this important to us? During the pandemic period, we feel in a special way the need for good security, first of all. Secondly, if anyone has a contract in private practice, they should also have a chance to implement it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] One last question. When will you take care of the hospitals and their debts? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u242	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u243	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The doctor's profession bill was long awaited. I thought we were gonna talk about how to make it easier for young people to work, how to make it easier for them to pass exams, how to make it easier for them to specialize. Unfortunately, PiS at the last moment of the bill, which should deal with such matters, has made an ideological bill. The PiS patch introduces religious law. What religious? First, the in vitro right paid from the state budget was removed, then women were removed from the right to emergency contraception without a prescription. But what does that have to do with confession? And right now, the next step is to take away the right to information. In Poland, the law on abortion is a very restrictive act for women in tragic situations. They should therefore be subject to special protection and should therefore be entitled to information in the event of refusal to provide information on where this procedure may be carried out. We refuse to treat women as objects. We do not accept this (the bell) to take away our fundamental rights. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u244	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Club of the Civic Coalition. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On the one hand, you are creating a law which is intended to encourage the employment in a simplified manner in the Polish health care system of doctors of foreign specialists from outside the European Union, and on the other hand, e.g. The State Medical Rescue Act removes some of the successful dispatchers from next year, including in my region, in Bielsko-Biała, which secures up to 670 thousand. residents. Minister! You're finishing up county hospitals. When will the District Hospital in Żywiec receive money for overdoing? We've talked about this a lot. There's no response. Why, at yesterday's Health Committee meeting, did you suddenly remove from the bill the provision that, in the event of medical refusal because of a conscience clause, the hospital is required to identify another doctor or another hospital for further treatment of the patient? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for a reason. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u246	Mrs Claudia Jachira, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u247	Mr. Private Mr. Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Now that you've decided on this bill, it's an article. Strike out what does not apply. 2 and thus deprive the citizen of the information where they can perform the given witness, if the doctor invokes a conscience clause, I suggest that you go a step further. Stop using secular legislation at all. Bring the religious state to an end. Ban the use of contraception, eliminate divorces, live together without marriage. You'll finally be happy that everyone has to live according to your religion. But once you have put up with the secular state, perhaps it would also be appropriate to stop stealing, not to trade in offices, not to practice politics in temples, not to speak false testimony, but rather to use hate speech, to love neighbor. That's gonna be a challenge for you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u248	Ms Urszula Zielińska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let the patients look online - that's what they said yesterday in the Seym Health Committee... That's what I'm saying now, of course. ...after the withdrawal by Mr PiS of the provision on the obligation of the hospital to indicate to patients where they can receive health care when the doctor refuses to do so because of the conscience clause. The Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe talks about the need to provide such information to patients. Since yesterday, the fertility association, women's organisations, citizens and citizens have been calling for this to be restored. The right to such information in a normal, civilized country simply belongs to citizens. In fact, I think that this amendment is another harassment that is aimed at harassing patients and patients. And my question is, how much do you have to hate people to offer such solutions? Second question: What further regulations are lobbied in the Polish Parliament... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u250	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, this bill that is about to de facto eliminate the right to information, in my opinion, is about to ignite the electoral emotions. And frankly, I think disgustingly of those who use this situation to do so, because it has nothing to do with ordinary human decency, not to mention the Code of Medical Ethics, which is simply crushed by such conduct. Minister! I have a question about how the Ministry is to ensure whether it intends to ensure liquidity, adequacy and transparency of the process of recognition of qualifications and admission to the profession of doctor of persons outside the European Union. I am also talking about this in such a context that once doctors trained in Poland were also doctors from outside, they had problems. Will these experiences guide Poland's actions in any way? And second of all, we need it especially. [[♪ The bell ♪]] neurologists. I'm talking about an example of a hospital in the voivodship... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u252	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! All questions concerning the revision of the doctor's profession law have been dropped. I will use the presence of the Deputy Minister of Health for the task of two fundamental questions. First of all, Minister, at what stage are preparations for the Medical Fund? On 8 March, there was a conference of President Duda and Minister Szumowski, at which they said: We are already doing the Medical Fund, PLN 2.75 billion. It's been two months since the fund was gone, it's not. And public television uses that 2 billion every day. And second thing: Medical Research Agency. How is it, Minister, that there is a conflict of interest again, again Łukasz Szumowski and the companies associated with him again receive grants from the Medical Research Agency? It was supposed to be on COVID, [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's for the family. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u254	Mr Czesław Hoc, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u255	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! First, a brief reflection on my esteemed speakers. The poet Johann Wolfgang von Goethe used to say: You should listen to a short song every day, read a good poem, watch a wonderful picture and, if possible, say a few reasonable words. Minister! Question to the Minister: Is there a clause of conscience, simply the execution of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal of 7 October 2015, which clearly indicated that neither the doctor nor the medical entity has the so-called. an information obligation, but such an obligation rests on the public authorities and above all on the National Health Fund? There's a proper recipe for that. Could the Minister quote that rule later? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u256	Thank you. Mrs Anna Siarkowska, Club Law and Justice. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u257	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Constitution, constitution! - screaming the Members of the Left, but only when they're okay with it. The Polish Constitution gives every citizen freedom of conscience. This freedom of conscience is guaranteed. Moreover, in its judgment of 7 October 2015, the Constitutional Tribunal pointed out that the obligation to inform about the place where the benefits were received, which were refused because of opposition to conscience, was an unconstitutional restriction of freedom of conscience. This is a compulsion to participate in an unethical act. Moreover, this obligation is not only unconstitutional, but also inadequate because it is not known where doctors or medical agents would draw knowledge of who is performing such unethical treatments. This knowledge should be available to the National Health Fund as a public authority and hence the request to separate these non-ethical benefits from the general (Bell) basket of health services. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u258	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u259	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I actually have two questions. What is prevention and treatment, and what is the share of dentobuses in the whole process when it comes to rural areas? It's very important because the announcement was a lot. And the second question is, what is the idea of dentists going back to work? They should return, only in a moment will they know that there is no work for them and Minister Szumowski may send them to collect strawberries, as Mr Krzysztof Ardanowski, Minister of Agriculture did yesterday. Of course, I support this proposal to help with the strawberry collection, but I suggest we start with teachers who sit on parliamentary and government benches, starting with Minister Dariusz Piontkowski. They would set a good example. Many here in this room have urged Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish to treat him as a doctor. Let the teachers who are sitting here take care of teaching, helping with the strawberry collection. It will be very good (Bingle) help for Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u260	Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u261	We meet again. Two quick questions for the Minister. What you were following, introducing the so-called "specialization training" at the time of your recruitment. A letter of intent? I would like to inform you that this is an important criterion for recruitment. It's a letter from the head of the medical unit or the head of specialization. This has been the case so far, because so far there is no good system. But perhaps the best, most honest is one criterion: the number of points from the so-called. the drug exam, which is the medical final exam. I filed a proper interpellation on behalf of the Left Club. And the second question, and my ensuing interpellation. The point is that doctors who specialize in the first and second degree hospitalizations, which is logical and beneficial for both parties, provide financial compensation (the bell) because you did not think of it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u262	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u263	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Bydgoszcz Medical Chamber, acting on behalf of the Dentistry Commission of this Chamber, addressed to me a resolution of the General Medical Council on support for the amendment of the article. 53. This provision specifies who can be employed in medical practice. The aim of this amendment, requested by the General Medical Council, is to take into account in this provision the possibility of permanent employment in medical practice of at least one assistant. Recent experience from the Coronavirus epidemic has clearly shown how difficult it is to organise extraordinary reception conditions for a single physician and how much easier it would be to face this challenge for larger human teams. That's what I'm talking about, my club put it in its amendments. I will be kindly obliged to the Marshal if this amendment is taken into account during the proceedings of this law in (The Bell) The High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u264	Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation. There isn't. There's no envoy. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, also near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u265	I just wanted to ask you what the difference is... It's about a situation where my tire is slightly damaged, and I drive up to the garage, and the guy tells me that for some reason, he's not gonna change that tire. Does he have a duty to show me another workshop? There's no legal obligation, is there? What's the difference? You just treat women like idiots. You think they can't find their own information on the Internet, they can't question a neighbor. You just think women are idiots, of course. By the way, if I were to introduce a rule that a woman had to point out the father of a child and he had to consent to the murder of that child, then if she had withdrawn her desire to have an abortion, he would have had to pay alimony. It's not like she'd find someone there for money, it'd be a catch. So that such a legal arrangement would significantly reduce the number of abortions, without any statutory restrictions, police and such things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u266	Thank you. Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Fellowship of the Confederation! I assure you, the mechanic will show you another bet. It doesn't involve a conscience clause, just like doctors in this country. Easiest... No law, right? Back to the bill, facilitating the procedure of nostrilization of diplomas, free specializations, introduction of e-learning - these are all changes expected by students of residents. So why is this government trying to fight women again undercover to improve the health situation? Why are we introducing magical concepts instead of medical language? What magic? Why do we allow ourselves in this country to be obscured by a clause of conscience that is already outrageous in itself? Because every mechanic has the right... Everyone has the right not to serve a woman or a black man. I'm not a mechanic. We take away women's right to information, and only politicians without conscience can allow a conscience clause in this country. Thank you. And I ask you, why? Why are you fighting women again? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u268	Oh, yeah. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Minister, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u269	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As many of your fellow Members have already pointed out, the amendment to the Act on Competitions for Doctors and Dentists is a project that has been expected for many, many years. The Law and Justice Government has been working on this amendment for several years. He invited the social side to this work, among others. representatives of the Residents' Agreement, as well as the General Medical Council. Together a team was set up, which prepared a preliminary draft of this law, and then this project was analyzed and consulted at the Ministry of Health. Later, the whole project followed the full legislative path, i.e. there was an internal consultation, where all the public parties had the opportunity to speak and submit proposals. Many of these proposals were taken into account at different stages of the procedure. Unfortunately, parts of the proposals could not be taken into account, given the nature of the changes being made or the circumstances in which we are currently in. Not all these expected changes could have been made. I would therefore like to begin by thanking you very warmly for the hard work done by both doctors, representatives of professional authorities and employees of the Ministry of Health, preparing this project. I would like to thank you very warmly, Mr President of the subcommittee, because we have worked very long and we have examined all the provisions in very detail so that this project is optimal at this time, in the situation in which we are currently in. Ladies and gentlemen! You've asked a number of questions. Some of the questions were about system issues. The state, especially the Civic Platform state, has raised the issue of underfunding the system, staff shortages. I would like to remind you that not anyone else, only you have not taken intensive action in the previous 8 years, such as we are now taking to improve the human situation. In order to prove this to you, I will say that in 2015 we had 15 universities in the country where doctors were trained. We're currently 22. In a few years, we have increased the number of doctors' education institutions. In 2015 there were 18 thousand. students in the medical studies of the daily master's degree, at the moment we have 26,000 of them. As regards the number of doctors in the system, in 2015 there were 184 thousand, at the moment more than 194 thousand. So you can see that these changes that we've made have concrete effects. The process of medical training, especially the specialist, takes a long time and the effects of the changes we have made will be visible in a few years. When we talk about underfunding, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 you spent PLN 73 billion on health protection. We spent over PLN 100 billion last year. These are concrete facts that are worth remembering by criticizing what the current government is doing. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, by way of an answer. In a large part of the discussion concerned the clause of conscience and the availability of health services. I would like to say briefly, therefore, that the Public Benefits Act gives the possibility whether or not it requires the National Health Fund to provide information on health benefits provided by individual entities. Art. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 clearly states that the National Health Fund has a duty to inform where a given type of benefit can be made. I would like to remind you that there is also an infoline of 800.190-590 - if we want to remain anonymous, we can get full information on where the health benefit is performed by phone. I would like to emphasise one more thing: the doctors suggested that this rule be abolished. Yesterday, even on the Health Committee, there was the voice of one of the doctors who gave this information. And I absolutely want to make a statement here that the current government is guided by an aversion to doctors. We are a government that is really making a lot of efforts to improve the conditions of the doctor's profession. As far as the individual questions are concerned, you have been paying attention... to specific issues. Maybe I'll start with the first question about biobanking. One of your fellow Members drew attention, asked why we are not regulating this issue. I will, of course, pass on this expectation, sir. This issue is dealt with by the Minister of Science and Higher Education, the draft Law on Biobanking. I'm gonna pass this on and we're gonna be on it... Professor Maksimowicz is preparing these issues. And that's the way it's supposed to be, what's it for in the doctor's profession bill? On the other hand, as regards the questions raised during this discussion, one of the questions concerned the fees for the exams: the medicine, the medical and dental final exam, and the PES. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in this law that we make such a change that the second exam will be free of charge if the first exam is not passed. By the way, I would like to remind you and inform you that the fee for LEK is 100 PLN, while for PES it is 700 PLN. These are values. As far as individual practice is concerned, the issue of individual medical practice has repeatedly arisen here. Ladies and gentlemen, the profession of doctor is a free profession. The provisions of the Commercial Companies Code provide for the form in which it may be implemented. And we point out that it can be performed, among others. in the form of companies governed by commercial law. A doctor who wishes to employ a second doctor has the option of either setting up a partnership or setting up a private health care establishment and in such a form can carry on this activity. Individual practice is dedicated to personal profession with certain exceptions, which are described in the case of profession. And there's no reason why you can't hire a doctor. The legal form can be changed and the profession can be pursued in this way. Since this problem has already appeared many times, and it concerns not only the profession of dentists, but also doctors, nurses and physiotherapists, I yesterday at the Health Committee's meeting pointed out that we will lean on it, we will examine the situation... Minister, I've already counted two minutes. Thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: ...and possibly this decision in this regard will be taken. As regards recognition, because Mr Suchoń asked about the conditions for the recognition of the right to pursue a profession, they are laid down in the law. With regard to professional rights issued in the countries of the European Union, standardized training processes are and are recognised. If there are persons outside the European Union, it is in this law that we indicate how to obtain the right to pursue a profession, limited in this case, and in this procedure we describe the possibility of obtaining a limited right to pursue a profession. On the other hand, if a foreigner wants to obtain a full right to pursue his profession, including the possibility of recognition of specialization, then there are nostrilization processes which are described in other legal provisions. There was a question about the letter of intent and compensation for sending a doctor to the county hospital. As far as this compensation is concerned, we have foreseen this. I know that this bill has 150 pages and maybe not everyone has read it, but art. 16j paragraph. 6 and 7 are talking about compensation, it's going to be 16%. a minimum remuneration for a resident who will be seconded to a practice in another medicinal entity remote from his place of residence. As far as the letter of intent is concerned, yes, this law introduces the possibility of receiving a letter of intent from the head of the medicinal product. For this letter of intent, the candidate for residency may get 5 points. This is justified by the fact that the doctor, during post-graduate or, say, in the course of practical activities, shows some specific skills, specific qualifications and the director of the medical entity will consider that he would like this doctor to carry out specialization in the field. That's why we give him a chance to support him through, among other things. the publication of this letter of intent. And Mrs Hartwich also spoke about the lack of support for those who are facing problems... Minister, thank you very much. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Józef Szczurek-Żelazko: ...tough pregnancy. Such support is derived from the Life Act and many million zlotys have been transferred to health benefits for this purpose. Thank you, everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u270	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you. You're still the rapporteur? One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wouldn't want to prolong... Yeah, it is. ...or I'll answer in writing. I just wanted to answer one question. First of all, I would like to thank those who worked in committee, because the committee, although the bill was extensive and difficult, has produced a specific document, and if this concerns an ideological dispute in this document, it is a completely different matter. Mrs. Member! I'm not ashamed of my resume, but thank you for reminding me of him, but you're a debutante... She's a debutante. I'm a debutante. I've got this document right here. Left... She's a debutante. He's a debutante. I have a document here. The Left signed it. It's not a dump. It's called an amendment in parliamentary language, unless you're interested in an outcast. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-27-sejm-12-1.u272	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 27 May this year. The meeting shall be adjourned until 28 May 2020 at the latest. 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 16 min 53]]
