ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the importance of European education. I have the great honour to welcome the guests present at the meeting, our great actor, Mr Olgierd Łukawicz, founder of the foundation The Foundation shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Wojciech B. Jastrzębowski, and Mr Witold Moszyński, President of the Board of Directors, our citizens of the European Union The Foundation shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Wojciech B. Jastrzębowski. I would like to remind you that this project was introduced by Deputy Marshal Michal Kaminski and is included in print No 84 and the report is published in print No 84 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Mr Senator, Mr Michael Kaminski, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Commission! I have the honour to present a positive position... High Izbo! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the positive position of the joint committees on the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the importance of European education. This resolution, which was the subject of a lively discussion at the meeting of the Joint Committees and, I believe, will be the subject of a lively discussion now, stems from the conviction of many senators that Poland's presence in the European Union, our contribution to the field of European integration, goes far beyond the current policy dimension, goes far beyond the party political dispute taking place here and now. This resolution allows us to see the role of Poles and Poland in the field of European integration, because it recalls Wojciech Jastrzębowski, the author of the first such coherent vision of European integration, which, when we consider the circumstances in which it was formulated, can now be considered a bit archaic, but only because it was created in 1831. However, the idea behind this project, which Mr Wojciech Jastrzębowski reported at the time, is far from archaic. This idea is not only not archaic, but it is forward-looking. It is the idea of par excellence modern and directed towards a better future of nations, because it speaks of eternal among the nations of the covenant. It is worth considering if we are talking about European integration, why Wojciech Jastrzębowski wrote these words and directed to Poles and Europeans this appeal. And he did it at a very specific historical moment. This text, which we are talking about, was published almost on the eve of the Battle of Olszynka Grochowska. Why am I talking about this? For this November Uprising of 1830, whose participant and bitter witness was Mr Wojciech Jastrzębowski, was an attempt, military attempt to gain independence by Poland. We deposed our ruler and went to war with Russia. We lost this war. Looking at the defeat of the November Uprising, Jastrzębowski realized that the world in which power is determined by international relations is a world in which Poles will lose. They experienced this very painfully in 1831. Later, we had a very painful experience in all the uprisings in which we participated, with very few exceptions, e.g. except for the Greater Poland Uprising, which was a victorious uprising. And we fought in all the great wars in which we participated in World War I and World War II. For we have learned how no other nation in the world, that where power decides, and not values, Poland loses. If we look at very important choices, choices in a literal sense, i.e. the election card made by Poles over the last 100 years, it turns out that we can identify 3 such election moments in which Poles could say much more than what they think about the current situation. It was primarily a referendum, which was a referendum at the beginning of communist power in Poland. Today we know that nearly 70% Poles voted in this false referendum against the demands of communist power. The next big elections that brought about change were the 1989 elections. Today it is said that at that time 60 percent of Poles supported solidarity candidates. The third great moment in the history of the Republic of Poland, when Poles could speak of something by means of a ballot. Far more important than the current political dispute, it was a European referendum. And there's 80% of it. Poles voted in favour of Polish participation in the European Union. It is precisely that we are part of the European community that is such a clear and practical proof that the curse of our history, which was marked... We have to face the truth. This story was marked by the disasters and suffering of our nation. It's worth remembering... The history of the Republic of Poland is arranged in such a way that it is worth to formulate a bitter thesis. Well, for the mistakes of politicians, the citizens of the Lightest Republic paid with blood, and our nation paid with blood. Liberty. There was a moment in the history of our nation where the decision of politicians and the decision of the nation did not result in blood, misery and tragedy, but resulted in the opening of a new perspective for future generations of Poles. It was the decision to enter the European Union, it was the decision to support this idea by Poland. Today this idea and in Poland, and abroad has its powerful opponents. And today, just as in 1831, when we dethroned the Tsar and went to war with Russia, which was against those values which we as a Polish nation believed, we are also in conflict with Russia, which does not share those values that we and the European Union share. Today you can say the enemy is the same and friends are the same. A friend of the Polish people is freedom, and the enemies of the Polish people are despots of various ointments. And that is why we are in Europe that we are free Poles and we do not like despots, regardless of which side of our border they are from. Thus, as rarely as any decision taken by the Polish people, this decision to enter Poland into the European Union was a decision which history I am convinced of only positive. But what we will do with this decision, what we do with Poland's participation in the European Union, what we do with the opportunity it brings for us, for Poles and for the whole continent, the European Union, is only up to us. This resolution, our commitment to defending European values here, in Poland and more, in the European Union, is not only due to our sincere conviction that the European Union, this model of cooperation between nations, is a necessary model, but it also follows I rarely use pathetic words, but today I'm not afraid to say it. From our deepest patriotism. The requirement of the Polish state of affairs, the requirement of the national interest of Poles living here and now, is the basis of international policy on values and not on strength, is the basis of international policy on cooperation and not on conflict, because then Poland will win, the European Union will win. I am therefore very humble, but also feeling the importance of what we are discussing, and I am asking the High House to approve the draft resolution tabled on the importance of European integration.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the applicant. Let me remind you that the applicant was also Marshal Michael Kaminski. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I understand that the discussion was over at the committee meeting and in the inquiries to the applicant. I'm opening a discussion. There are now four speakers, the fifth, Senator Bladder, who has submitted his speech to the minutes. There you go, Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer to the contested resolution as a multi-annual teacher who was involved in European education in the pre-accession period. Then the thought of Robert Schuman, contained in his declaration The anniversary of its announcement was not so long ago, the 70th anniversary. I think that European education, which really began, even then in the EEC, at the beginning of the 1970s, and in Poland when... After 1989, all subsequent governments sought to make Poland a member of the European Union and introduced this kind of European education. She actually had three components: it was education about Europe, that is, it was such a typical knowledge of the history of the European Union, about the treaties, about the Member States; education for Europe, i.e. shaping pro-European attitudes, key competences, teaching foreign languages and everything that is related to the practical dimension of functioning in a common Europe; education in Europe, that is, it was all that only a few could experience until 1989. Then the sense of teaching foreign languages, learning customs, customs, culture took on another dimension, such a experimental one. Indeed, it was something that was very successful, especially after-school activities. European clubs were established, similar or in line with the idea of Margarida Belard, a Portuguese teacher who founded the first European clubs in Portugal. They were then created in many Member States, and there were also a lot of them in Poland. These clubs really did a lot of projects. Today, a dozen years have passed since Poland is a member of the European Union... Since we became a member of the European Union in 2004, this education has gone to a margin, we have just stopped doing it, European clubs have ceased to function. Today, European education modules operate in a school, in a programme base only in a residual form. These are mainly content on dry facts: when the Union was formed or how it changed, when there were further enlargements, which are the bodies of the European Union. It seems to me that this resolution is an opportunity to return to precisely these forms of European education, about Europe, for Europe and in Europe, because European education is not in any way contrary to our education, Polish, it is complementary, it is enlargement, development. I believe that we should return to the work of many such activities as they were in the pre-accession period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Right now, I'd like you to take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u6	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I highly appreciate the draft resolution of the Senate on the importance of European education presented. I am firmly convinced that, in the current socio-political situation, it is the Senate's duty to support the aspirations and values on which The Poles care so much. And it happens that those who manifest their attachment to European axioms collide with misunderstanding and even hostility from different backgrounds. This is because due to ad hoc political goals, false dichotomy, Pole vs European, is being built in our country. This is why European education is so important in a wide range, in different forms, not only in schools. The Minister presented us at the previous meeting with projects, actions, government activation in order to promote the European Union and our membership, but I regret to say that the government has forgotten about grassroots initiatives, the most important ones, regional ones, local ones, which are really building real action, real promotion and our true membership of the European Union. As Halina Poor mentioned, there was a time when European school clubs were established in Poland like mushrooms under the rain. We saw it, we watched the incredible energy of young people, their teachers. When they left for a partnership exchange, they got to know a new culture, they got to know new friends. "These friendships are still going on today." In view of the need to communicate, these young people learned and practiced foreign languages. Entrepreneurs went to the Member States of the European Union, looked at new technologies, new solutions, even building new or developing new markets. Local governments exchanged their experiences, these young Polish local governments learned from French or Germans, Spanish, Portuguese, how to prepare for membership in the European Union, how to function, how to conduct regional and local policies. It was very rich and expanded, developing cross-border cooperation. Today, this cross-border cooperation is actually supported primarily by EU programmes. This is a great pity, because our membership is not just about reaching out to the European Union's aid measures, which are actually very dynamically developing our country. Every step, in the streets, in parks, in various public activities, we see how much the European Union supports the dynamic development of our country with its funding. But this support from the government is lacking so that these bottom-up initiatives can continue to be implemented. With regard to the Erasmus programme, the flagship programme of the European Union, it can be seen how little Poles benefit from this programme, and this is a programme that allows students, teachers, future entrepreneurs to gain knowledge, experience on how to operate in the European Union. The situation in our scientific community is very bad. Institutions, universities make little use of aid, the resources of research and research programmes that allow the introduction of new technologies, the initiation of new projects, new initiatives and new solutions. In Western Europe 95% Member States benefit from this assistance and this support, only 5% Eastern Europe, including to a lesser extent our country. I am pleased that Wojciech Jastrzębowski was chosen as the patron of the European education project, who was a great teacher. At the Agronomic Institute in Marymont he taught botanism, mineralogy, physics and gardening. He taught his listeners the consequences and patience in gathering the facts and gave him the passion to explore the mysteries of their origin. These are the qualities that should guide European teaching, which seeks to transfer knowledge, but also to shape the attitudes open to the spiritual dimension of the European space. To conclude, I believe that the appeal contained in the resolution is absolutely correct. I thank Marshal Michal Kaminski for this initiative and I hope that we will take it very seriously and change our face in terms of membership of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Right now, I'd like the floor of Senator Bogdan Klich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Each of us has a home and each of us cares about this house because in this house we live and this house is a center of gravity, one that attracts us, to which we return from shorter or longer journeys. This house we value and respect, this house we strive for. But every one of us isn't our only home. We still have smaller houses, such as local communities, districts, communities in which we live and with which we identify. I think that most of us, who are parliamentarians, make sure that these local communities move forward so that people's affairs in these local communities are taken seriously so that their problems are resolved as quickly as possible, as efficiently as possible. And there is this big house, which is our homeland, which houses us all and which is the traditional Polish most noticeable reference point. The previous generations shed blood for it, and our independence did not fall from heaven either, because for many of us, so that Poland could regain independence after 1989, it was a period of sacrifices, sometimes great sacrifices, when we had to give up our individual aspirations in order to give up our time, their efforts, often their more important matters for this country. But we are also in such a happy situation that we still have the largest house, Europe, and we have this reference point, since 2003, since the referendum, which was a kind of celebration of Europe in Poland, when the European Union finally actually, really existed in the life of each of us. And we care about this house, better or worse, depending on the years. This house also looks more evident or weaker, a little weaker after crises, but it has this amazing ability to regenerate after each one of them. And this has been the case in the history of the European Communities always and I believe that it will be the same now. Indeed, this largest house of ours, the European Union, is in shock at the moment. These aren't seismic shocks. These are various political, social or epidemic shocks that go through all the countries of Europe and each of us is experiencing. But this house holds on. This house is standing tight. And you have to ask why it's still going on. I think it's going on because it's built on solid foundations. They were quite late written in the article. 2 of the Treaty of Lisbon, but they have accompanied European integration from the very beginning. These foundations are values. These foundations are not national interests. These foundations are values. Because the European Union is a community of values and I have no doubt about it. And as long as these values are in our hearts, so long will the European Union exist and develop. I'm not replacing them just to remind us of them right now, but to make us realize what we need to educate ourselves to do. That education about the European Union is education about these values. That the dignity of the human person is this basic value, somewhere resulting from the Gospel message. That freedom is the work of a great liberal European thought, from Locke, Montescius, to contemporary thinkers who think Like many of us, probably not all of us, but many of us. That without freedom there is really no development of people and societies. Finally, democracy is the value around which it is worth screaming about, and it is worth caring about. And that it is not just that the ruling majority now has the right to do what it thinks is going to happen, but that it is institutions and procedures. That these are the institutions and procedures and without the institutions and procedures that describe democracy, this democracy simply does not exist. And that democracy is not just the rule of the majority, democracy is the rule of the majority limited by law. First of all, a basic law, first of all a constitution. And in countries like Britain, until recently a member of the European Union, not a constitution, but awareness and attachment, respect for the law. The European Union is a state of law. That's the rule of law. It can't be that somebody's gonna think of spending public money without procedures to buy some masks or some ventilators. It's all regulated. Rules that the rulers have a duty to stick to. Because if a citizen is to comply with the law, he must first comply with the law of the government. Thus, legal awareness and respect for the rule of law is also the pillar on which the European Union is built. Also, but not only because there is also all the work in the field of human rights and the citizen, not only the one enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or the European Declaration of Human Rights, but also respect for freedom of assembly, for freedom of speech, for all the rights of every individual. This is also the foundation on which the European Union is built. And you can't. I'll tell you more. It is not allowed to speak like one of our guests who presented the electoral bill here recently on the TV show that human rights are in fact not of special importance. No, human rights and citizens are the foundation of the European Union and are the foundation of our awareness. Pluralism, non-discrimination and tolerance are three values, which constitute another pillar. They make us remember that each of us is equal and that we should respect the views of others, not divide people into better sort and worse sort, on those who have more powers, and on those who have fewer, on those who are better, and on those who are worse. Non-discrimination, tolerance and pluralism are anchors for equality. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Mr. Senator... Finally, Mrs. Marshal, the word about solidarity, because we understand it in Poland... anyway, we understood it best until recently, because it has been the export product of our homeland for the last years. Solidarity is extremely important in this pantheon. And there is no freedom without solidarity, but there is also no solidarity without freedom, which we know well. I'm talking about all this. Ms. Marshal, the last two sentences To remind you of what European education is all about. European education is primarily about values. The stronger this European house will be, the more we talk about it in schools and universities. As a lecturer at the Institute of European Studies at the Jagiellonian University, I must say that all my students No matter which country they come from They know very well that Europe is a community of values. And it would be good for all citizens in Poland, especially politicians, to remember that too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u9	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u10	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! I would like to thank the initiators of this resolution very warmly and Mr Kaminski for having notified this project. The moment is critical, this is the moment when Poles will actually choose between two visions of Poland's participation in Europe. What vision will prevail naturally depends largely on education, on how Poles will understand the common European project and the Polish interest in its survival, in its strength and in Poland's strong position in this project. I specially use the word "interest." Senator Klich, my previous speaker, spoke very much, and rightly, about values. In my speech, I want to focus on the national interests of Poland in order for the European Union to be strong and the Polish place to be significant. And I will very much ask the High House to share the opinion of all of us who have worked on this resolution that we need a new momentum and a new dimension of European education. I'll briefly tell you why. A few quotes first. The European Union is an imaginary community and a fairy tale for suckers. Unfortunately, those are the words of the President-in-Office of the Republic of Poland. The European Parliament condemns Polish patriotism, the European Union's partners say that we should give up sovereignty, try to impose anti-values on us. These are the words of another very prominent policy of the governing party, Mr Antoni Macierewicz, a long-standing minister and vice-president of this party. I will not mention, because it is a shame of the seriousness of the High Chamber, the words repeatedly repeated by the prominent politician of the governing party, unfortunately, currently having a high judicial position in the Republic of Poland, that the flag of the European Union is a rag. But it is worth considering a few very significant and, in my opinion, suitable for analysing this real dispute in Polish politics about the Polish place in Europe with the words of the President of the governing party. In a recent interview where he wrongly pointed out the weakness of the Union during the crisis caused by the coravirus and said that the Union had done nothing about the fight against it and the fight against the economic crisis caused by the pandemic, which President Duda, mentioned earlier three weeks later, had just said that the European Union's new plan to save the European economy would give the opportunity to receive tens of billions of euros for investment in Poland... President Kaczyński, in what I am saying, a generally false interview, recent, less than two months ago, raised the charge that loyalty to the European Union means disloyalty towards Poland. He also recalled the words about the teacher of shame, which supposedly the European Union or its elite impose on Poland and Poles. These words are at the heart of the dispute between us, who see the meaning of the European Union and the governing camp. Not only is it not that the European Union imposes something on us without our consent expressed in the referendum 16 years ago, but neither do we look at the European Union as a bank for excavation, nor do we see it as a threat to the fundamental interests and values of the Republic, our national community, which has been built since 1050 years. On the contrary, we believe that in an unstable world the existence of the European Union and the Polish strong place in it is at the heart of our national interest. You remember the joy expressed, unfortunately also in this House, over the past few years, of the politicians of the Brexite ruling party. That is what European education is for, so that such meaningless and harmful acts as in the case of the UK, i.e. brexitu, will not occur in Poland during our lifetime. That's what the resolution's for. This is the importance of European education. The basic fact is that in the Polish national interest is strong The European Union. What happens if it is missing or weakened to such an extent that it ceases to be functional? This is what allies of the ruling party, PiS allies, for example, dream about. Mr. Salvini, Italy. What happens then? Poland is not Great Britain, it is not an island behind a canal that no one has conquered in a thousand years. Poland lies at the intersection of geographical and historical routes, at the intersection of strategic interests of the great powers of Eurasia, Russia and Germany. What happens if there is no European Union? How will Germany pursue their national interests if there is no European Union? These are questions that every responsible Polish politician must answer. In absolute belief that European integration and real teaching about this integration, real education not only young people but also the general public, e.g. through the media, we propose that for the sake of Poland and its citizens, for the sake of present and future generations, we give new momentum to European education. We have a strong faith... This is my amendment, which has been accepted by the committees, and thank you very much. The majority of Poles understand that Poland's security and prosperity will be easier to build within the European Union in an increasingly troubled world. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u11	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Raphael the locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u12	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Guy! Gentlemen! It is not easy to follow such strong speakers. Mr Kaminski's speech fully gave what I think, and that is why I am sad that it does not justify support for this resolution. Senator Klich's speech... You spoke beautifully of values, but I think it was unnecessary to use these considerations for some kind of political attack, because there is certainly something important here. I'd like to talk about values, too. I think what you mentioned in the first place, I would actually repeat: the dignity of a person. I think this is something that probably best reflects the spirit of Europe. But there are others, and I am close to values that we do not deny: caring for children, chivalry towards women, respect for the elders, love for freedom, democracy with respect for the rights of minorities, or a unique Polish contribution to European values, that is, fighting for your freedom and ours. These are all things worth reminding you of, and it's worth keeping in mind all the time. At this point, one might ask: is this resolution a useful tool to support these values, to support these values? First of all, time. The element of time appeared in Senator Bosacki's speech, but I remind you that we are in the midst of an epidemic which also raised questions about whether the European institutions are competent. Everyone in this room knew him before, but now everyone in Poland knows who Łukasz Szumowski is. And, ladies and gentlemen, please answer the question as to whether you know the name of the Minister of Health or the Commissioner for Health of the European Union. How many times did he occur during the crisis? How many times... Commissioner. ...the health manager. Stella Kyriakides from Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly a moment when confidence in the European institutions has been a little shaken. And perhaps I agree with the authors here, this is the moment to try to rebuild this value of the European Union in the eyes of Poles. But if there is a statement in the text that there have been voices that undermine the credibility and integrity of the institutions of the European Union... Ladies and gentlemen, I am attending meetings with voters and we are talking about this area, which the European Union guarantees to Member States, i.e. that through the yellow card mechanism we can examine issues of infringement of the principle of subsidiarity through legislation, through directives. And I think it is interesting for Poles that the European Union, which has produced legislation at an average rate of 3 per day by 2010, and since 2010 over 1 per day, received a yellow card from the Member States only three times: in 2012, 2013 and 2016. After such a first intervention of national Parliaments in sufficient numbers, the European Union overruled this reservation in terms of collective disputes and, in the other two cases concerning the European Public Prosecutor's Office and posted workers, ignored them. If I talk about it in a meeting with voters, do I undermine the credibility of the institutions of the European Union? That is the question. But the European Union also came to the conclusion a year ago that this yellow card mechanism is too damned well placed and that, therefore, something might have to be improved. So there's some wisdom in the stage. Ladies and gentlemen, a minor reservation, but one that would probably be enough to challenge the content of this resolution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is where the phrase comes from: The example of the United Kingdom shows how far-reaching the consequences can be manipulated by public opinion. I never voted for the Civic Platform, but if someone in the years 2007 to 2015 said that the Poles supported the Civic Platform because they were manipulated, I would really jump out of an outrage. I don't think we should make that kind of statement in a legal act. Ladies and gentlemen, the hero of this resolution... I've read all 77 points of his political agenda. He's not just archaic, Mr. Marshal, he's anachronistic. These are beautiful sentences. There is a sentence that says that the basis of national laws will be the laws of nature, that is, the laws of God. I would gladly enter into it, but the fact that the office of the patriarch, or ruler of a given nation, is hereditary, is already anachronism. And historical memories capable of awakening the unfriendly feelings of mutual love of nations will be depicted as monuments of barbarism? Well, it's Orwell now, isn't it? None of you would like to live in the state organization our hero described. I understand that there is a battle at Olszynka Grochowska and the thought of the victims, but I do not know if it is appropriate to call such a symbol. I know that the present Mr Olgierd Łukaszewicz devoted a theatrical spectacle to this hero and it certainly aroused patriotic feelings, but this issue certainly stands here if we wanted to follow the path he outlined. And that is, I would say, the least problem with this draft resolution. But did the authors of this draft resolution not come out of such a assumption that Poles may not love enough The European Union and that, therefore, it is necessary to jerk them a little bit, to motivate them through education, so that they love this Union more? Isn't there going to be an association of Polish-Brussels friendship? Aren't we going to include friendship with the European Union in the Constitution? Ladies and gentlemen, let's pay attention to Poles' prejudice. Let them themselves evaluate the European Union and European values, let them not be pressured in this regard, otherwise we will cause counter-reactions. As a hot believer of European values, as a supporter of staying in the European Union, I believe that this resolution is counterproductive, and therefore I am requesting that it be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Michael Sewerinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I am a strong supporter of the European Union, of European integration, of the European Community, and in support of this I will say that I am the founder of the first cathedral of European law in Poland. I founded it over 20 years ago, and some senators here can testify. Moreover, I am Poland's first chair holder of Jean Monnet Cathedral in Poland. For example, these 2 facts make my beliefs about the value of the idea of the European community and about the need for a Polish state right To keep Poland in this community. I am also in favour of popularising European education. I've been running this education for over 20 years. But I cannot agree with some of the wording of the proposed resolution, which, in my opinion, disqualifies it in its entirety and makes it impossible for me to vote for it. I'll tell you what I mean. I cannot agree with this statement that the Polish sovereignty is not threatened by certain institutions and statements of European Union officials. Well, they do threaten us, they're difficult to reconcile with our sovereignty. Besides, it's not only about officials, but also about politicians or scholars, for example. those that promote the model of the Federal European State. It is not in the interests of Poland. In the interests of Poland and, I believe, in the interests of all European countries forming the Union, there is a community of sovereign nations, a community formed with the sovereignty of nations. This should be said here, this should be the aim of this education about the European Union. The European Union is on the corner today. Everyone who is close and dear must admit with bitterness that this is the case, that the Union is experiencing a moment of weakness, which is best demonstrated by the fact that the great country of Great Britain has emerged from this Union. Here it is important to stand in the truth, as is said patheticly, and to say that certain opinions on the European Union, on the role of its right in the European Community, on the general direction of European policy, need critical revision. Only then will it be possible to discuss why this European education is to be subject to what it is to be devoted to. The question must be re-answered as to which direction the European Union should go in order to become a real community of sovereign nations. Well, you can't talk about it uncritically. Some of the public opinion in Poland, but not only in Poland, critically refers to the idea of establishing a European federal state in place of a community of sovereign nations. Nor can we be critical of a certain blurring of human rights. No reasonable person will deny the fundamental importance of the whole concept of human rights, but the question of what is meant by individual human rights is sometimes answered by very different, profoundly different authors of these statements. Let us take the definition of one, certainly fundamental, human rights, right to life. For some, a man conceived is not a man and can be aborted, and for others it is a living being. And to those of you who at the moment think that the Black-Secret Catholic view speaks through Sewerinski, I will answer in advance: please discover the definition of human life that comes from the World Health Organization. If we have disputes against the judgments of the European Court of Justice, it is because such fundamental values are difficult not to share, for example. the rule of law, the interpretations are different depending on who conducts the interpretation. If we have doubts as to whether the decision of the Luxembourg Court is to prevail over the decision of the Polish Constitutional Court and the tribunal of any other Member State, and there are doubts, because there are different opinions on this, it means that this section of the European Union's political foundation needs to be reviewed, it requires a clear definition. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is something that has happened to us happily and well. When students ask me: "What do you think are the arguments behind our participation in the European Union?" I answer that historically the most important argument is that thanks to our accession to the European Union we have overcome the curse of the Yalta division of Europe. For many of them this is a difficult term to understand, it needs to be explained in more detail. There are many other arguments for this idea, but I know, for example, from the speeches that have taken place here, that there are experienced experts in this Chamber of European law and the idea of European integration, so I will not repeat myself. I just want to say this: if we have, and I am signing under this, to speak in favour of strengthening European education, then let us speak the whole truth about the European Union, let us not just be so intrusive that the credibility and integrity of the EU institutions are supposedly false and are allegedly undermined. There is a great debate today about the European Union. Not only the EU countries are involved. And for example, it's true, the whole world. Those of you who reach a little wider than the Polish press will agree with this, said that the European Union was silent when it had to take a stand on the pandemic at first. Now a major recovery project has been created for the economies after the pandemic, which will certainly be useful. But see what happened earlier, how the individual countries of the European Union behaved, especially in view of the crisis most striking in Italy during the pandemic. I'm not gonna elaborate on that. I am in favour of writing the full truth about the complexity of the issues arising from our membership of the European Union, especially the priority of European Union law. I've heard many times here. I'm sorry to hear you say that. Even as serious legal authorities spoke of the absolute primacy of European law over national law. I wouldn't give a student of three for that term, because there's no such thing as such a ruthless primacy. So let's tell the whole truth. If it weren't, Mr. Marshall Kaminski, in this resolution of this passage, which begins with the words "For some time now," etc., and then speaks of Britain, I would have voted in favour of this resolution. Because I recognise this need and I am in favour of the need to educate our society about the reasons for the creation of the European Union, the role it is to play. But we also need to talk about the crisis we are experiencing right now, where it comes from, and what response we should give to this crisis. It should be in education, and it's not in this resolution. That's why I won't support her. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u15	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u16	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! I also presented most of my own at the committee meeting. I'm going to repeat myself a little bit, but some of the statements we've made here have to be addressed. And I hope that I will clearly disqualify them. The first question is the position of the Senate resolution. We, up to a certain point, were sure this was the case during the previous term, making sure that the resolution had its rank, so that the document which the Senate publishes in the Polish Monitor would mean something. In general, these were historical resolutions which, on the occasion of the round anniversaries, spoke about the values of the Senate, and what historical events, figures try to restore memory or strengthen in the universal memory. The question is: what is it with this draft resolution? What is the reason why we should make such a resolution? I don't see it. And it'll be about that later. She will be, as has been said here, counterproductive. And even if that were the case, it should not be taken. The second point is the purpose of this resolution. I from this text, which is here, am not able to bring out, to sublimate one goal, which would be unambiguous and based on true premises. Since we learn from the initial paragraphs that support for European integration in general, for the European Union, is very high in Polish society In the original text there were even given percentages, that was on average over 2/3 of what do we want to save? I hear he's with the second paragraph. It is about voices appearing in the public space distorting the essence of Polish relations with the Union, undermining this credibility, and the fact that this support may fall. Professor Seweryński just explained where these voices come from. Can telling the truth change pro-Union moods in Poland? No. These moods are evidence of... The origins of these moods are facts: the roads on which Poles drive, built with EU money, rail and everything how the Union contributed to the increase in the level of civilization of our nation, our country. But surely empty speech, even pro-Union indoctrination, will not serve to increase this support. That is why such a resolution will be counterproductive. Let's make love! Love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, love, So the question is: what is the real reason... Because there is a clear contradiction in the text. Well, maybe it's really about the current political situation. Maybe you have to come up with another sphere, a conflict point. And this is also a question of semantics, naming. I mean, back in the day. I don't want to remind you that the benedictions were words of the type of "anti-Semita," "fascist," "hate speech." Now it's supposed to be an anti-European. Someone who does not accept the position of the authors of the resolution is anti-European, i.e. by default Of course, it's the next step. He is trying to get Poland out of the European Union. Therefore, public attention should be shifted to this, and this should be discussed, a certain thesis should be put forward. Falsify And fight it until it falls. Maybe that's what this resolution's all about. If not, perhaps the authors will lead us out of our mistakes. Because so far the text is just like that, confrontational. Some bad things are suggested when it comes to the current rulers, in particular the government, perhaps also the President's guess, and then he tries to insinuate... or to indicate how these bad things should be combated. It's about opening the next conflict field. Now a little bit about the text of the strict sense. Title: The importance of European education. What is this European education according to the authors of the draft resolution? There's a definition, second paragraph on the other side. General education about Europe Let it be the same. It is knowledge of the history of European integration, the legal basis for the functioning of the European Union, the dependency of national and European law, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, I thought Europe was not just a European Union. That there are many countries on this continent. So far they are national states, they have their history, a part over two thousand years old, a part over a thousand years old, just like us. And the history of Europe is not just about the history of the European Union. I'm not talking about geography anymore. What do you want to teach, really? Do you want to talk about Europe in all its complexity, in all its complexity, or do you want to teach love to the European Union, just indoctrinate? The latter is borne out by the fact that you are directly speaking in this draft resolution. It's about stepping up. I quote: Encouraging knowledge of European integration and covering all age groups, all professional groups and all regions of the country. When you use such large quantifiers, all of them, each of them, it's already beginning to be suspicious. There's no report in any group. Unless it's a force imposed. Everyone doesn't feel the same way. The point is to introduce the teaching about the European Union in Poland as the benefactor who took us into his womb, and if it weren't for that, we would have just died, I don't know, we would have been in some grey zone. That's a lot of things to say. We were, let's face it, a second-class country. Although I never use that concept. But this, ladies and gentlemen, is extremely unpleasant and dangerous. Why? Well, that's our generation. I think that's what's called "in the strength of age" and "entering Poland into the European Union." Not everyone felt the same way back then. But you didn't feel at the time. At least I didn't have the European Union doing us favors. If we look at history, we will see that most countries of the European Union owe us something. In quotes, of course. It is not that the Union, in its old composition, has adopted a poor relative who should be grateful to her for the rest of his life and thank her for leading us into the club, I would call it distinguished. Ladies and gentlemen, 75 years ago World War II ended. And some of the EU countries have so far had a debt of gratitude towards Poland. Some EU countries then behaved not as well as they should towards Poland. If you're talking about values, then I'll stress that these values were hidden very far and very deep. Mr. Senator, 10 minutes. Yeah, I'm almost done. I'm finishing my thought, Mrs. Marshal. And the worst part is that our generation has already absorbed the fact that we are, in quotes, Europeans. And we just deserve it because we've always been in Europe. It was we who sometimes kept the traditions of Europe. As we understand them. But I would not want a new indoctrination to begin now to bring our young people into a state of thanking the European Union for welcoming us into its womb. I would like the Polish youth to behave like the young people of other countries, let's call it the old Union. It is natural that you travel around Europe, it is natural that everyone who is Polish is also European, just as every Frenchman is European. Don't make young Poles... Don't make them those who, let's face it, are going to be a worse category, and they're going to keep thanking us for being admitted to the Union. The Poles deserved it. We're where we're supposed to be. If we try to do what you suggest, the effect will be counterproductive. The content of this resolution will push young Poles away from the Union because it is false, and the false Poles will not accept. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Undoubtedly, what has happened to us good and happy is the European Union. I share here the first part of Professor Sewerinski's speech. What happened to us happily in the last 30 years is also self-government. And in my opinion, this common denominator doesn't differ at all. We differ in interpretations of this fact, as well as interpretations, not the letter "I emphasize: not the letter " This resolution. What's important to me is paying attention to hard facts. First of all, the words of Jastrzębowski, the author of these important statements, the language of 1831, must not be applied until today, because neither language, nor context, nor history, nor experience are identical here. But showing azimuth to a common Europe is as accurate as possible. Secondly, I need to correct some false interpretations of the facts. I am sorry to say that in recent years there have been a variety of events, I would say, the thunderstorms associated with the attack on the European institutions and the undermining of our participation in them. I'm not suggesting there's no doubt about the law and justice or the government. I would very much like to point to entities, institutions, as well as the services of foreign countries The foreign countries of Poland, the foreign countries of the European Union. Today, we know very well what various services were involved in Brexit-related activities. If the awareness of this activity existed when the British voted and decided whether to be or not to be in the European Union, it would certainly, in my opinion, lead to the UK maintaining its position in the family of European countries. It is the various external forces that want other countries to treat participation in the European Union with some distance, with suspicion and even with aversion. There are institutions. And we're perfectly aware of that because there's evidence to prove it, hard evidence. Our services, the services of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, the president knows that, and the European services know that. I also want to correct a few minor issues that, from my point of view, are important. I have never allowed myself to speak uncritically of the institutions of the Union. These institutions certainly have flaws. There is excessive bureaucracy, there is slowness, from time to time there is also a huge number of smaller or larger errors. There is no doubt that this must be discussed, but leaving the European Union is not an alternative here. The alternative is to reform and fix the European institutions and, if we are talking about education... We must also talk about these institutions with the awareness of their potential or real flaws. I am not in favour of the thesis that fell here, that if anyone is against this resolution, he is anti-European. Absolutely not. I want to rule out that kind of thinking because it's as provocative as going the other way. People, institutions, who have doubts about the quality of certain decisions, cannot be regarded as anti-European. All the more so now we need European education. All the more reason to talk about phenomena and events also in a critical way. But above all, there is one most important goal here. We must not lead to a situation in which Poland's position in the European Union would be undermined from the point of view of our interests, had serious features, for which others would look at Poland, at our authorities, at our institutions with suspicion, for a foreign body, because we are not this foreign body. Just like the senator said. The Frenchman is in the European family and the Pole is also. I stress once again: what has happened to us in the last 30 years is the agreement to sign the European Constitution, in short, under the Treaty of Lisbon. It's an agreement to enter, such indistinguishable, various political forces. It is an agreement to participate not in the Warsaw Agreement, but in NATO. It is an agreement that the local government is to be an autonomous, independent, important and sovereign body of public administration. It creates the strength of our country. And two things at the end. Maybe one's a detail. If we are talking about European education, we cannot talk about the fact that Poles do not know the Commissioner responsible for health. It must be remembered that the European institutions are built differently, otherwise this basket of competences is built. The health service in the European Commission is de facto broken down, divided between 2, sometimes 3 Commissioners; somewhere else from time to time there are issues related to rehabilitation, medical equipment, elsewhere those related to doctor powers. So be careful... I mean, if we're talking about European education, we need to be precise and precise. And the second thing, extremely fundamental or important. It must be borne in mind that undermining the value, importance, strength of a European institution has nothing to do with critically looking at specific decisions. There can't be a common denominator here. It is not that if a decision is being discussed and debated, it is being questioned, it raises some doubts, it should follow the next step, i.e. undermining the importance and value of the European institution. I would also like to stress that when we talk about law, we are not talking about the primacy of EU law over all regulations in the Member States, but there are areas where this primacy exists. I can't imagine trains in the European Union going in every country on different tracks, different widths. I can't imagine us not meeting certain standards related to emission standards, etc., etc. However, in other areas we have far-reaching freedoms, freedom, therefore we must not bring into the debate these extremes which, in short, mislead and harm the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u19	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Marshal Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I spoke as Senator rapporteur, I tried to avoid And I'm gonna keep doing it. This is the current political context, because I believe that this idea... And thank you for the fact that also those who critically refer to this resolution, to which they have the right, in their statements also tried, despite all differences, to address the problem, and not to the current political dispute that we have in Poland. For this I would just like to thank you, because the elements of this debate were, frankly, upbuilding. The speeches of Senator Sewerinski, Senator Sillyman or Senator Czerwinski showed that despite the differences between us, And they're actually fundamental. We can find some common points. I am pleased that today in this debate no one has questioned the very idea of European integration, but there are wordings in it, but they need to be commented on because of the logic and because of... you yourself have called for us to talk in the truth. It is very difficult to say that the European Union should not turn into a federal state, and I respect that view. And at the same time accuse the European Union of reacting slowly in some matter, whether in foreign policy or even... There was a charge here in the context of Coronavirus. Well, the European Union continues to react more slowly on various issues than a national state precisely because it is not a national state. And if we want the Union to be more effective, ♪ I want to ♪ We must also assume that it must take away the powers of the national States. I respect another view that says: no, we do not want to extend the competences of the Union. We want to give powers to national states. This is a legitimate, non-extremistic view. I fundamentally disagree with him and I tried to tell you why. The renationalisation of national policies within the European Union means that this federal element in Europe, this element of guided by the interests of the whole continent or the whole community, necessarily goes further than thinking in terms of the national interests of individual countries. Polish nationalists would shout out: great, that's what we want, we want more power in the hands of our Polish nation. But then it is worth asking yourself: how does this independent nation of ours fall out in this balance of power in the European Union? I'm buying the thesis, and I'm trying to historically prove that every time we're alone, we lose, and then when we're in some community, In particular, if this community is based on values and this is the European Union, we win. And let me repeat: it is very difficult, on the one hand, to complain to the Union that it is ineffective in some matters and, on the other hand, to demand that it has even less competence. It's just illogical. I just want to point out one more thing, to be honest, extremely dangerous, unpleasant, I'm sorry about the unfair argument that sounded in a few speeches. It was so ironic here that it is supposed that we would like everyone to love the European Union. Even such an extremely harmful text, namely the reference to the Polish-Soviet Friendship Society, came. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice, it is extremely unfair to compare the European Union to the Soviet Union. Today in the Senate I met a Euro-Principal of Law and Justice and he did not look like a dissident in Soviet times. I assure you that in Soviet times, dissidents were not elected to the Moscow Supreme Council and were not given huge money for sitting on this Supreme Council. And the biggest Eurosceptics, not only in Poland, are happy to sit in Euro-European Parliament and are happy to take diets in this Euro-European Parliament. And even if that is why this comparison between the European Union and the Soviet Union is dishonest. This is also because Poles did not want to be dominated by the Soviet Union, as I also talked about in my speech. The referendum, which confirmed the power of the communists in Poland, was falsified, and the referendum which confirmed the will of Poles when it comes to being in the European Union was not falsified, it was true and, I believe, the overwhelming majority of us in this Chamber voted in favour of Poland's presence in the European Union. Mrs. Marshal, High Senate, there is another aspect that is worth mentioning here. This refers in substance to the text of the resolution in which we are talking about manipulations concerning the European Union. This isn't a political opinion, Senator, this is confirmed by the Central Intelligence Agency and the British Services... There are interviews published in the media, which clearly state that Russian intelligence and Russian politics were involved in the removal of the UK from the European Union. But you don't need intelligence, you just need to read and listen to what Russian politicians say to discover the dangerous convergence of the arguments of the President of the Russian Federation and the European right. After all, and God is my witness that I do not speak ironically, not anyone else, only Jarosław Kaczyński said, and he was right that in Poland the tradition of collaborating with Russia has two models: one is openly agental and the other, and Jarosław Kaczyński said so, is a model of collaborating with Russia, according to which this collaboration is conducted under the national and Catholic banner. And if we recall the disgrace that was the Targowica, we will also remember that Targowica was the reaction of a part of the Catholic opinion against the European Constitution on 3 May paid by Russia. The Constitution of 3 May, which everyone in Poland, from the right to the left, boasted, was a proof of our European aspirations. Ba, the baptism of Poland was a proof of our European aspirations, not something else. And that is why, Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I am of the opinion, remembering that the interest of those who have never in history well wished, proven interest, proven political goals of those who have never well wished for Poland and are sitting in the Kremlin, is to destroy the European Union, is to reverse the geopolitical consequences of the collapse of the Soviet Union for Russia, and the presence of Poland in the European Union, the presence of Poland in NATO is a geopolitical result of the collapse of the Soviet Union... Thus, attempts to rebuild the former Soviet Union, which Russia is undertaking today, must take place against the European Union and can only succeed in the ruins of the European Union. Therefore, I will repeat: the requirement of Polish national interest is to defend this imperfect, like everything that is the work of human hands, the institution which is the European Union. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Zdrojewski is filing a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u22	Yes, Mrs. Marshal. We are starting a very serious debate outside this resolution. It seems to me that we are entering into a debate about our history, about many, many other aspects of foreign policy, which is why, with regard also to our guest, who will be performing at the end, I am applying to close the list and, in short, to move on to the final part of this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u23	Thank you. Is any of your senators against this conclusion? I can't hear you. Senator Bogdan Klich is still on the list, it will be an additional statement, and Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. And the list is closed at the request of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u24	It won't even be a full five minutes, Mrs. Marshal, so that... I am merely speaking to refer to those statements which I consider to be detrimental to this text of the resolution. Because this text of the resolution does not speak of any indoctrination, this text of the resolution speaks of education. I think we agree that education is a tool of modern man and in general a tool of every man who will allow him to survive, better adapt to his surroundings, better achieve his goals and intentions. And that is European education so that we know more about what this European house looks like. And this resolution is talking about it. He talks about European law, he talks about the European institutions, he talks about the history of the European Union, and therefore simply about these pillars of knowledge about the Union, which is necessary for every citizen in Poland. All he's talking about is that there's more knowledge to be passed on in a way that's easier and accessible to everyone, especially to young people. She's talking about it. Secondly, she does not say that from now on we will create... whether we will teach Poles love for the European Union. Poles know what to love the European Union for, they do not need to be taught it. Poles know what to respect the European Union for, because they either have evidence of the importance of the European Union in their own pocket, or have evidence in the form of opportunities to travel across the continent, etc., etc., etc. Poles need not be taught to love the European Union and this is not the intention of this resolution. The intention of this resolution is for each of us to have more European awareness. More European awareness. It is necessary, for example, to argue with opinions such as the one that once appeared in this debate today. I'm not gonna give it to any of the contestants. That is, that the European Union did not act at the very beginning of the epidemic, was late with its reactions, etc., etc. And so graciously, and thank you very much. the European Union has not yet given a eurocent to the fight against the koravirus, as Prime Minister Morawiecki said at the time when he knew that Poland could have a very large amount, because the amount of about EUR 7 billion 400 million, from the European cash register, whatever money for those European projects that were previously written as projects from the Cohesion Fund, could be entirely shifted to the fight against the koravirus, to reconstruction, to support entrepreneurs, to support workers, in short, to combat the effects of the epidemic. So European education is to talk about facts, about what they really look like. We may differ in opinions, but the facts are one and the same. And that is what this European education is all about: so that Poles are aware of what the facts are. E.g. that the European Union has responded quickly and responded, so far, on a huge scale in combating the effects of the epidemic, really going further than anyone could have imagined at the beginning of March. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u25	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am listening to this debate and I think that there is no need for a political and ideological element in this debate. The fact that the European integration project is being implemented either after World War II, starting with the coal and steel community, since 1946, from meetings, if I remember correctly, in Caux, from so-called. founding fathers, de Gasperi, Adenauer, Schuman, who are considered to be great fathers At my request, notabene were added to the draft resolution It's a matter of course. But indeed, this political and ideological dispute, especially in the run-up to the presidential campaign, requires a certain distance and a cool look, I believe. Mr Kaminski rightly pointed out that we are dealing with a huge dispute, such a dispute, I would say about the mechanism for the functioning of the European project. In a word, or more of the Union, I'm simplifying it right now. More competence for EU institutions and less competence for Member States, or vice versa, so... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I would have asked, yes, yes. So for the national authorities. We are also dealing with a situation where also international law, treaties on the basis of which Poland is in the European Union, are often overinterpreted or conclusions are drawn or decisions are taken which are literally not supported by the routes to which Poland has committed itself. There are also attempts to use such an ideological one, on the basis that there was a consensus in 2004, when we entered the Union, and now there are voices. Let's call it Euro-realistic or Euro-sceptical. This is because, in the meantime, there has been a change, there is the Treaty of Lisbon, and the principle of the functioning of the European Union has changed. I will remind you of the famous words of no one but the prominent policy of the Civic Platform, my name-maker. Only he is Jan Maria Władysław, and I am Jan Maria Dominik Jan Maria Rokita, who said Nicea or death. We remember those words, we remember the second half of the first decade of the 21st century, when this discussion took place. And we know how it looks, and we know how it is now trying to expand the power of the European institutions. We know what the Karlsruhe Tribunal has recently done, stressing the lack of competence of the European institutions to take certain decisions. This dispute continues. I think instead of discussing who's more pro-European, who's super-pro-European, who's super-super-pro-European, who's that mean eurorealist or, God forbid, Euro-sceptic, and already, God forbid, a Euro-negajonist who denies the European project... It's not necessary at all in this whole discussion. We should have some consensus that Poland has been in Europe for more than 1,000 years and has been actively participating in the European project, formally for more than 16 years, and is an important Member State of the European Union. However, we must also remember, and often in pro-EU propaganda we forget that the European Union is not a club of noble gentlemen who think only of some general, magnificent, lofty ideas, but it is a place of hard, ruthless negotiations, which are often very well wrapped In formulas, procedures, positions, recommendations, directives, etc., i.e. in all forms of action. That's why, listening to this discussion, I wanted to talk about it. I would also like to say that I personally believe that the creation of utopian. I say this as a historian The creation of utopian projects... There used to be a Kalmar Union, in the 14th century, there were other projects. But only those projects which respected the sovereignty of their entities, and here a good example is the Polish-Lithuanian Union, where there was mutual respect, respect for instance, for certain legal and administrative traditions which were in the Grand Duchy of Lithuania and the Kingdom of Poland. And they had the ability to agree and create on the basis of a common state's personal union, they were projects that have survived for a long time and have been well written down in history. Will this be the case with the European Union? It's too early to talk about it right now, too soon. The Chinese leader was once asked how he felt about the French revolution. It happened in 1989, 200 years after the French Revolution. As we know, there are different opinions among the historians of ideas on this subject. We also know very well what this Chinese leader said. He said: 200 years is not enough to assess the effects of the French Revolution. I think such a cool approach is good. Now, back to this project, I'm making five amendments to it. I am pleased that the High Commissions have accepted my amendment on the founding fathers of the European Union, namely De Gasperi, Schuman and Adenauer. Plus, I suggest you do it. This is the first amendment. In order to delete the word "significant" in the first paragraph and to leave the wording "most Poles trust..." Well, it's such a dialectic grading: a large majority, a smaller majority, a larger majority, a smaller minority, etc., etc. In my opinion, this is unnecessary in such a text. Next, I propose deleting the second and third subparagraphs and adding the following paragraph after the first subparagraph: "Unfortunately, we have recently observed the unauthorised interference of certain European institutions in the areas of operation of certain Member States which, in accordance with international obligations, are reserved for national authorities. I would also like to add the following sentence in the fourth paragraph: "It is also about the European project to be based on treaties rather than overinterpreting these treaties. The fifth amendment aims at rewording the last sentence in the eighth paragraph: "Suverne and free Poland in a united Europe has long been the goal of many Poles. Well, you get the impression that this is too big a thought shortcut. Reading the sentence that this united Europe has long been the goal of many Poles, someone might feel that the existence of the Polish state is irrelevant. I think it would be better for the authors of this draft resolution. The point is that it doesn't sound like it's urging us to give up sovereignty, independence, independence at all. It is better not to enter into such discussions, it is better to rewrite this sentence so that it is much more readable. Thank you. I'm putting these corrections in your hands, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of speakers has been exhausted. I'd like to ask if you... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to calm down. Shh. ... I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Is the founder of the Foundation Our Citizens of the European Union The Foundation shall be responsible for the implementation of this Decision. Wojciech B. Jastrzębowski, Mr Olgierd Łukawicz, would like to speak? Yes, if you don't mind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, this is a historic moment for me. I am glad to stand here and speak to you from the point of view of my age, my generation, although it is not so that we are very different in age. Mr. Senator was kind enough to pay attention to this generational common denominator. For me, the creation of this foundation was a very important and personal matter. There were no parties, no parties. It was my initiative after reading Jastrzębowski's text. I have lived with this text for many years and I think that Poles should know it too. I created this foundation with my own money. We've already published three books, and I've had 100 meetings all over the country. No one paid for it to me or anybody on our foundation because we feel responsible for the transmission. We have experienced what the PRL was, and from the left, and from the right. And we know what's next. It is said that... The paragraph beginning with the words "from time to time" is worrying here, and not further than last night, in the debate of presidential candidates the youngest of them said: I will bring Poland out of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I read the text of this resolution just like the texts of your predecessors from the November Uprising. This is not an instruction for some propaganda. This is a manifesto of your hearts. This is an expression of your fear and concern about what will happen next. If a young Pole talks to me like this, why do I need it? The European Union? I can still drive around Europe... he doesn't understand this Europe. This text is a will, your will, which says that without education there is no discussion, there are only passwords, there is propaganda. And this propaganda is what we're dealing with. Ladies and gentlemen, this call is intended to start a discussion about the fate of Poland, about the European Union, about the various projects of this Union. We chose Jastrzębowski's texts because they seemed to us the most distant from today's disputes, giving us a platform for common understanding of patriotism. Jastrzębowski, then a university scientist, faced the Moscow Uprising in the National Guard, stood by the cannon and risked his life. And it is so, ma'am, that regardless of how different you will be here, Poles expect a clear signal from you. During many of the meetings I held, many people closed their mouths and did not want to talk about the Union in any way because they were afraid to talk about it. Mrs von der Leyen has announced a conference on the future of the Union and that is where these various arguments and doubts could be reasonably shown, but Poles are beginning to read the statements of the youngest presidential candidate. These readers are 1 million 200 thousand, and even 1 million 400 thousand. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful for this text. I am grateful to Marshal Kaminski for bringing this case here. This is a romantic manifesto, a will of the state for the generation, to which we are to convey the idea of a united, united Europe: not to lead, not to break the bond, to understand Europe and to discuss it with it. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u29	Thank you very much to Mr Olgierd Łukawicz. I understand there are no more speeches. I would like to inform you that your speeches to the minutes have been made by Senators Bubbles, Breyza and Swede. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to Senator Rafał Śluszarz, Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Alexander Szwed, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. In the course of your speech, Senator Marcin Bosacki made proposals of a legislative nature. As legislative proposals have been submitted, it will be necessary to convene a meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. I would like to inform you that you are waiting outside for the Deputy Minister of Health, Mrs Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. As it has some time constraints, I propose that a committee meeting be convened when the legislators draw up amendments and, at the moment, start working on 2 points where the presence of Minister Ratchurek-Żelazko is necessary, i.e. on the Chemical Relationships Act and the Doctor's Profession Act. And immediately after these 2 items will be held the meeting of these joint committees. That's the health department's request. If I do not hear an objection, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. ...to the committee? Yes. We address legislative proposals to the Commission: the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union in order to respond to the proposals they have submitted and to prepare a report at this meeting. It's obvious. The modification is due to the presence of the Minister of Health, Józef Szczurek-Żelazko, and the request to proceed without undue delay to the proceedings over the ninth and tenth points... sorry, eighth and ninth points for which the health department is responsible. The deadline for the committee meeting... The meeting will take place immediately after the end of these 2 points. You will be informed of the exact time and place in the Communication. I would like us now to proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda, and I ask the staff to call on Minister Szczurek-Żelazko, who is in the foyer. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Chemical Substances Act and its mixtures and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 136 and the report of the Commission in print No 136 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to be the rapporteur of the Health Committee on Print Act 136 A. The report concerns the Law adopted by the Sejm on 28 May 2020 amending the Chemical Substances Act and its mixtures and certain other laws. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 29 May 2020. At the committee meeting there was a very short discussion, because the law does not really have any points of dispute. This is the implementation of the Directive, in fact, the transitional period ended in 2017 which requires us to adopt amendments to this law at the moment. In addition, a changed name was added to the applicable law. Instead of a chemical inspector, the President is the President. I asked the Minister during the committee meeting what this change would result in. The Minister has assured us that this is just a change of name. Both responsibilities, powers and the entire pawn remain unchanged. During the process of the bill two legislative amendments were tabled, which were approved by the Ministry of Health and adopted by the committee. Therefore, I kindly ask the High House to adopt the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u32	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'd like the senator to confirm it even more. Does this not have any organisational and financial impact on those who trade such products? Because that would de facto mean transferring these costs to buyers of products. I'm thinking about companies that trade chemical products. Isn't that gonna have some extra financial impact on, uh, I don't know, some expertise, activities that... you were talking about renaming, about the fact that it's... For example, all instructions, prints, etc.? This will have to be changed, it will have to be adapted to the bill, so however, some financial consequences may be small, but they will be. Was there anything more detailed about this at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u33	There was no way to talk about it. There were no questions. I have concluded from the Minister's statement that the amendment will not result in an increase in costs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u34	No further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. It is my pleasure to welcome Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko to the staff. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u35	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I'll say a few sentences about this problem that you're interested in. As regards the issue of changing the nomenclature from the chemical inspector to the president of the office, it has no financial implications. The Bureau now employs about 20 employees, and so it will be. As I said at the meeting of the Health Committee, the name "inspector" was a bit of a misnomer because this institution had no supervisory or control functions. We're just adjusting... As is the President in the case of the Office for the Registration of Medicinal Products, the President of the Office will also be here. It doesn't have any effect. As far as entrepreneurs are concerned, the opposite is true: there will be facilitation. So far, entrepreneurs who wanted to market the substance had to submit documentation in Polish. At the moment we allow the possibility of submitting documentation in English. Of course, there will always be the possibility of waiting for the documents to be translated, but because of the multitude of documents we have come out to entrepreneurs. Documents are now also accepted in English. As far as sanctions are concerned, we are, of course, imposing sanctions, but they apply in the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the Act. These are specific sanctions. We must remember that we are talking about chemicals that can be very dangerous to human life or health or to the environment. Failure to comply with the rules of the registration process is subject to criminal sanctions of up to 200 thousand PLN. These amounts are comparable to the amounts of penalties applied in the countries of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u36	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u37	Thank you very much. I understand the definition of hazardous substances here, Minister, and it's changing. Could you bring the Minister closer to the High House, what is this change? And my second question, regarding punishment up to 200,000 zlotys. As I understand it, an appropriate inspection imposes such a penalty, but I must admit that I do not know whether there is a possibility of appealing on a judicial basis or not. He asked me to bring it up to speed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u38	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u39	As far as the appeal is concerned, the law provides for the possibility to appeal to the court. With regard to the definition, this is a definition in line with the EU rules in which we take into account... In view of the repeal of the Article, 4 a definition of a substance presenting a risk and a mixture presenting a risk is introduced by adding point 31 to Article. 2 and deleted from other provisions of the Act refunds relating to provisions which have expired on 1 June 2017. The definition introduces the same scope...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u40	Thank you very much. I understand you're a senator in a form of questioning. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u41	Yes, sir. I have a question about that. If someone wanted to bring to the Polish market some new type of synthetic fertiliser, chemical fertilizer, what procedure is it subject to? Can such a measure, which is applied and considered safe in country X, be considered dangerous in our country? I am thinking of importing from outside the European Union because, I understand, these rules for the whole European Union are identical and this definition is identical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u42	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u43	If the manufacturer wishes to introduce a new preparation, the entire path, as so far, must go, including the presentation of any documents which will be subsequently evaluated by the committee and verified for the effects of this product on human health and the environment. This whole procedure has to go through. If the measure is recognised in other countries, I understand that outside the European Union It will not be possible to obtain a marketing authorisation certificate in our country as well. As far as... the important information is that this bill doesn't apply to fertilisers that the senator asked about. It's regulated by another law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u44	Good. Mr. Senator probably meant the peripety of the global Monsanto Group and the various types of fertilisers... But that's not the topic of today's discussion. The chemicals used in agriculture... Thank you very much. I don't see any more volunteers... Senator Czerwiński would like that. Oh, excuse me. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u45	Mr. Marshal, you haven't looked at me very much lately. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Now, seriously. Minister, I was concerned about what you said about the submission of the documentation in English. As I understand it, only for registration purposes. Yes? Because then, as in detail, it goes on store shelves eventually, it should already be in Polish... No, the Polish language law also applies in the case of such instructions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u46	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u47	Yes, of course, this only applies to the registration process. This is research, physical and chemical documentation. This is therefore only required in the registration process. Where a product is registered within the European Union, e.g. in Poland, there are separate provisions which require the instruction to be placed in the appropriate language, i.e. in our case in the Polish language.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u48	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to know if... I think I see now that there are no more questions. Questions requiring written answers were also not received. So I'm opening the discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I understand that the final vote... Is there anything else the Minister would like to say, or do we proceed with the next bill? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. And it's probably not gonna be here so soon. The text of the Act is contained in print No 133 and the committee's report in print No 133 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u49	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! Let me take my mask off, 'cause it's gonna be a little easier for me to talk. Well, you still have to follow all the rules, because the pandemic is developing, and today there are more than 500 diseases. So we have to take care of our health. On the subject, I would like to say that I have the honour of being the rapporteur, the Senator of this bill. On 16 June, the Senate Health Committee held a meeting, which took place, inter alia. a review of the Law on the amendment of the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and certain other Acts adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 28 May 2020. It's a senate print, like the marshal said, 133. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Minister of Health in the person of the Minister and representatives of the medical self-government, members of the Bureau of the General Medical Council and representatives of scientific associations, mainly one, i.e. The Polish Cardiology Society. There's been a discussion about... Of course, the bill is a government project. During the meeting of the Senate Committee, issues were raised concerning the important subject of doctor training during post-graduate and doctor training during specialization. The Act introduces the possibility of passing a LEK, i.e. a Medical Final Exam, and a LDEK, or a Medical and Dentist Final Exam after 10 semesters in the case of 6-year studies, i.e. in the medical departments, and after 8 semesters in the case of 5-year studies in the medical and dental departments. It was stressed that after many months of discussion with the medical community about how these discussions were going on, what was the timetable, perhaps I would tell you during the debate, during the discussion, and now I will not inform you about it. A database of questions has been introduced. This is a change expected by the medical community. In the case of a medical final exam and a medical and dental final exam 70% These questions will be published on the pages of the Centre for Medical Examinations, and 30% is a pool of unpublished questions. The possibility of taking LEK and LDEK exams free of charge for the second time, organisational changes in post-graduate internship, i.e. compulsory courses in medical rescue in the field of BLS and ALS, are basic and advanced lifesaving treatments are introduced. 6 days of training leave for an intern's doctor is also introduced. All these courses I was talking about were during modular specialization, during the first three years of specialization, and now they're being transferred to post-graduate internship. The novel also introduces specialization training procedures in all fields of medicine, recruitment of doctors for specialization and a new modular examination during specialization. During the meeting of the Health Committee, we referred to this modular exam as the exam, which used to be called the old one; from it already during the training of doctors, you leave. I took one of those, too. Well, the minister assured us that it would be any exam, that he would not be necessary. That is how I understood it during the debate on this subject. The issue of on-call duties was also discussed in the course of specialization in the home unit and in the specialized unit. The subject of doctors' on-call time during maternity is a matter that seems to be respected today, probably in some individuals. It must be regulated by law. That defines the work code. As I understand it, the bill has to regulate it. Just like an 11-hour rest after the shift's over. The issue of a patriotic voucher for dentists was also raised. And there was a discussion here, too, because... it's about dentists, dentists during residency. I do not know if you are aware: for many years dentists have been asking dentists to increase the number of specializations for dentists. Because we're here, well, in the tail of Europe. The level of caries in Poland is huge. And postgraduate dental training is very important. Nothing's changed about this. One specialization from orthodontics or a couple from surgery to the whole of Poland We can't boast about that. The Act regulates the responsibilities of specialization managers: setting a timetable for specialization, training plans. I'm currently head of 3 specializations, now it's already 2, because my ward passed a specialized exam on internal diseases the day before yesterday. Well, unfortunately, young doctors, who are already after this exam, do not know at the moment whether they will have an oral exam or not in a pandemic age, have no information or prepare for further examination. It's just a little digression. Of course, here, this law provides for financial gratification. To the first specialist, 500 PLN. But That's what I understand, Minister. Not more than PLN 1 thousand, even if you have 3 specialists. So that's a little less than what the medical community's been proposing. But it's a novelty. The amendment also introduces a certificate of competence recognised by scientific associations included in the CEM list. The most controversy during our discussion raised the principles of the law on the fast track, a simplified procedure for the recruitment of doctors of foreign specialists from outside the European Union and a new path for recognition of their diplomas. Not so far, run by medical universities, but... LEW and LDEW, i.e. medical examination verifying and medical and dental examination verifying. The simplified procedure proposed by the Act for granting the right to pursue the profession to a foreigner who is not a citizen of a Member State of the European Union raised doubts of senators both in terms of the safety of the Polish patient, compliance with European Union law, and the proper functioning of the Polish health system. The proposed rules do not indicate appropriate criteria for verifying the actual knowledge and skills of doctors. In particular, the introduction of such facilitations for doctors from outside the European Union in medical and dental specialities in the face of 3% The residency granted to dentists, as I have already mentioned before, is particularly pronunciational. The Health Commission, realizing that the medical community is looking forward to changes in the doctor's and dentist's profession law Because this amendment is expected, it was expected by the medical community, having carefully examined the bill submitted and after consulting the representatives of the medical authority, it points to numerous shortcomings in the bill being processed. I'm just gonna give you a little bit of that. They were also the reason for our amendments. The absence is e.g. exemption from post-graduate internship and LDEK exam for dentists with a diploma from the Polish university, who went abroad after graduating but without a post-graduate internship or without taking a drug or LDEK exam and do their job there. A large group of such people, such doctors, mostly Polish citizens, who have graduated from the Polish university and have worked for many years in other countries of the European Union and in countries outside the Union, have extensive professional experience, established position and have titles of specialists, now expresses their willingness to work in Poland. These doctors want to go back to Poland. In the current legal state, such persons, regardless of their experience abroad, qualifications or degrees and degrees, must undergo post-graduate training in Poland or gain recognition by the Minister of Health and submit a successful LDEK or LDEK exam. In the case of such doctors, these requirements do not appear to be fully justified and may be seen as an excessive obstacle that causes doctors to give up their return to our country. In the current situation, when there are no medical staff, including doctors, nurses, this is not a good solution. Another matter, the lack of broadening of the powers of medical chambers, medical authorities, the emergence of medical self-government is the achievement, after the overthrow of communism, since 1989. In the field of post-graduate education. The General Medical Council proposed the transfer of voivodship authorities' competences in the field of training of doctors and dentists to medical chambers. Doctors, dentists, since they have completed their studies, have been very good at carrying out their post-graduate mission. It seems therefore natural to conduct the entire administrative part of post-graduate education by the medical authorities. It is a solution that has been functioning for many years, for example. in Germany. The General Medical Council proposed that the medical authority be given responsibility for at least the skills in the first stage... The aim is to increase the participation of medical institutions in the organisation of post-graduate training. The next problem is the lack of possibility of specialization training in residential procedures in priority areas by doctors who already have specialization. We take these arrangements into account in this law. He has repeatedly asked for the possibility of obtaining a second residency specialization in areas of particular importance from the point of view of state health security policy and the health needs of Poles. Next: no increase in the resident's salary and the introduction of the second threshold of this remuneration after the so-called doctor's opinion. a state modular examination. Well, in view of the increase in qualifications, if such a doctor passes such an examination, there should be some motivation provided for in the law in the form of e.g. Financial. The medical community has requested that the introduction of this modular examination be accompanied by a significant increase in remuneration, by 50% of the national average, with the possibility to carry out the selected procedures on its own and to make it visible in contracts for the National Health Fund. It is about raising the profile of the doctor who passed this exam, in the eyes of the unit manager, which would also allow individual negotiation of the contract e.g. with the payer of the rates and encouraged more work of a more efficient nature. Another lack in this law is the omission of regulations concerning doctors of specialists in relation to the rights designed for doctors of residents, which disperses the nature of their work and their privileges and obligations. We as a medical community do not want to share, we want to take care of residents, we are aware that these doctors are missing in our country. Sharing this environment with congratulations Smaller or larger in any direction, not only for the benefit of residents, but also for the benefit of specialists... This should be clear and transparent. According to the draft article. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 A specialist doctor may leave his post after duty in order to exercise his right to 11 hours of continuous rest, which does not reduce his salary, and the specialist's doctor is no longer entitled to do so. Art. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 11 (1). This provision does not specify the minimum amount of remuneration for the members of the examination teams and the committee referred to in Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2. The provision only provides for maximum remuneration. It's like this, I'd say, a little lack. Next case, no change of substance in the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 extending the employment opportunities for doctors and dentists This increased the dental environment of dentists. In medical practices, as requested by the General Medical Council in Resolution 16/19/8 of 22 March 2019. One of the main reasons why there are insufficient places accredited to carry out specialized training in the field of dentistry is that medical practitioners performing dental activities In excess of most of these are medical practices, they are too small enterprises to be able to participate more in post-graduate education than ever before. It is unlikely that the practice will hold an ad hoc post for 3, 4 years for specialization training. Extra space, infirmary, equipment, technical facilities... This additional position in dental practice must be created earlier. The right of practice to employ one permanent collaborator would be an appropriate incentive to do so. No amendment to the provisions of Article. 113 and the accompanying amendment to Article 113. 63 of the Act on Medical Chambers on the introduction of a regulation providing for the termination of proceedings on professional liability in the situation of mediation proceedings We also discussed this very widely during the committee meeting. . which ends with a settlement and allows mediation proceedings to be conducted before the Ombudsman is charged with professional liability. And, of course, there is a medical environment, mostly young doctors, doctors, who will most likely apply for specialized places in the qualifying process. It's so-called. a letter of intent which, in their opinion, in our opinion, perverts the qualifying process and may be the cause of various miscarriages, but may also... Well, these preferences seem to tear down some transparency in the qualifying process. That is why 23 amendments were introduced during the committee meeting, taking into account the voice of the Polish Society of Cardiology and the Chief Medical Council and Senator Necessary. Of course, I can discuss these amendments here, but I don't know if I have to extend them or if we're going to be in the middle of a discussion... I have so much to say. Of course, I can answer questions if I can. This is my debut as Senator of the rapporteur. And I'm waiting for questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. For your debut, you did a great job showing us precisely the contents of this huge bill, because it counts many pages. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. I see that today you have a subscription to questions from Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This is due to my inquisitiveness and desire for the High House to know even better the matter of these laws. Senator, I would like to congratulate this debut as the rapporteur's senator, but I have a rather detailed question. If this matter was not discussed during the committee meeting, I will refer this question to the Minister, the Deputy Minister of Health. Well, my question is this. I am referring to the question of a clause of conscience, because it also has its expression in this law. And I'm talking about what's new about this bill. Because based on what I read so quickly, and as I realized, I have the impression that a doctor who, for reasons of worldview, refuses to do any medical work, has to report this fact in writing... I don't know who, but he has to report it in writing. And doesn't it argue with the principle of conscience clause, which itself, or at least in the light of the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in the time of the Presidenting of him, prof. Rzepliński, extended this protection of the worldview or the clause of conscience quite widely? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u52	I'd be happy to answer that question. It is known that the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2015 is binding. We as doctors and dentists also have a code of ethics, which notabene was passed at a doctor's convention in my hometown in 1991, then was corrected at national conventions, finally in 2003. Chapter 1 of Article 1 7 tells exactly how a doctor is to behave if he refuses to help a patient in some situation, not only... When it concerns a life-threatening issue, there is no doubt at all. If your doctor refuses to perform the procedure, he should indicate another doctor who will perform the procedure. And that's what this article I mentioned clearly says. The amendment that was made by Senator Necessary... We actually voted it out after a long discussion, which is the only reason... I was maybe a little unconvinced at first, too, because conscience is a thing that is an individual matter. This, of course, provides for a specific provision... But there are specific things, such practical things, e.g. you are asked to seek medical attention, you are refusing to follow the procedure and you are left alone. And we were guided at this point by the need and well-being of the patient. The point was that he wouldn't stay without this final answer from the doctor or his superior, where he would go to get help. As far as medical records are concerned, I have been thinking about this for a very long time, because sometimes it is that the patient comes in and asks whether such a procedure can be obtained at a given institution, at a given doctor. If we don't investigate whether we're just giving an answer, it's not always recorded in the medical records. Well, medical records are assumed, interviews are being conducted, there's a normal visit... I think that there is such a situation among us, among practitioners, that sometimes one refuses to do it and the patient leaves. And that amendment was just about to take care of the patient's well-being. I don't know if I answered the question completely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u53	Now, Mr. Senator, we'll give the floor to the lady Senator Alicia the Hare and then we'll come back...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Dear Senator, The recruitment of doctors for specializations and access to free specialization places is expected to improve. Are there specializations where there are no seats available? That's my first question. Two: why is there a possibility of as many as 15 variants in the application for specialisation? Because these applications are about the kind of specialization, the place of execution... Fifteen is, in my opinion, a large number, but I'm not in the business...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u55	Here I'll ask for the help of the authors of the bill. And the first question was... Remind me because I'm focused... Accessibility. Uh-huh. Please... Are there any specializations where there are no seats available? Yes. So... Senator, I want you to answer whether it was in committee or not. It wasn't. I'm the one who said it wasn't. If not, we'll ask the Minister later. But I'd still like to talk about that first issue about the specialization recruitment... The case of doctors is different, and the case of dentists is different. As I said before, there is a very large shortage of specialization among dentists. Doctors don't really study. They have the right to pursue a profession right after college and they treat conservative medicine, but if they want to do dental surgery, orthodontics, endodontics, they don't have the option. Such specializations are very few. There's a big shortage here. And often young doctors do it as part of volunteering, wanting to learn. This situation, I believe, is unacceptable in Poland in the 21st century, especially since the level of caries in our country is huge and we absolutely should meet the training of dentists. As far as doctors are concerned, specializations are available. Of course, a doctor like that, applying for specialization, meeting certain criteria, pass well, with an appropriate drug score... But the truth is also that in 2014 it was designed by the elderly a map of the health needs of Poles, on which deficit specializations were included. It's been abandoned. For example, there was a fashion for geriatrics. There were shortages, doctors didn't report there... There's a need. Although the need for geriatrics here I could argue. But this isn't the place... I think we're gonna meet in the cockroaches someday and talk about geriatrics. And as for the request you asked, I would ask the Minister for help.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u56	If it's the answer of the department rep... Good. Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. ...then, of course, we'll be able to repeat these questions. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski for the second time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u57	Thank you very much. Senator, I'd still have the subject of a conscience clause. During the discussion on the Senator Necessary's amendment, was there also such an argument that, for example. an abortion procedure that is... She wasn't. ...taken, however, means annihilation of human life? So this case isn't so obvious, because it doesn't apply to a good patient in the sense that there's going to be a need to perform, I don't know, amputation in one way or another, or that some other alternative form of treatment is better. It's not that kind of dispute. It's a fundamental matter, a human life. Therefore, I believe that a doctor who, due to a clause of conscience, refuses to perform such a procedure in accordance with the law in force in Poland, is talking about these 3 reasons for such a procedure. It should therefore not be required to indicate the person who has carried out the procedure. Why? For this simple reason, it could be subject to environmental pressures, for example so-called. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, For this reason, I think it's kind of double-disputed from the ethical punt of vision. First, the doctor must identify a colleague who is about to destroy human life, and secondly, he may be stigmatized. Well, a person who doesn't do that can somehow be discriminated against in the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u58	Thank you for that question. As for the abortion procedure, this was not the case at the committee meeting. As for the hat, we've been thinking about it, but in our line of work, we're heroes once and we're haters once. The doctors are a little tough in this fight. It is precisely because of such dilemmas as the senator asked to say, that the doctor who makes such a decision seems to be able to refer the patient to his superior, the director of the facility, so that he can handle the matter. That way, the patient would not be left alone. It would also be ethically questionable if we said to such a patient: we do not do such a procedure and that is the end. In general, the case would not have been fully resolved and a patient with a medical problem would have bounced off the wall. You have raised the problem of abortion, but there are many other procedures for which doctors may refuse. We are to help the patient, and that is why we leaned on this amendment. We need to solve the problem of patients, not doctors. During the discussion on this matter, the Minister mentioned that the fund was to launch an anonymous hotline to solve this problem. This is a solution, but very superficial, because talking about such difficult matters requires direct contact with the patient. Perhaps this is to be considered for the future, although I think that in the case of such rather intimate matters that patients do not want to talk about, the infoline is not a good idea. But that, of course, is my personal opinion, and we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. I, too, would like to ask you what happened at the committee meeting. As you were polite to mention, these letters of intent regarding the recruitment of candidates for residency cause considerable controversy in young people, but also in older generations of doctors. You may not know, but once, when you took a candidate for specialization, you could at least talk to him. Now a man like that comes in, hands out a card and says, "I'm gonna be training here." And we've seen him for the first time in our lives. It is, so to speak, the tilting of the pendulum in the other direction, because even after six months you can see that this man's love for a given discipline is not mutual, it is extremely difficult to solve this problem. Was it mentioned that there should be criteria in these letters of intent? Well, suppose someone came to the hospital as a volunteer, participated in a surgical circle, came to the clinic during the holidays. In this situation, such a letter of intent would make sense, because it would appear that the candidate was interested in his future specialization. Well, a letter of intent written according to such criteria, that it is the son of someone there and therefore should be accepted, would, of course, be a distortion of this idea. Therefore, my question is whether this topic was discussed a bit more deeply at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u60	It wasn't that deeply discussed. Thank you for that question, because we were just questioning the meaning of this letter of intent. Well, someone's gonna show up out of nowhere with a letter of intent, and that's why we're gonna have to give him a specialty. I very much agree with what your marshal said, because in fact such contact with a person who wants to do specialization in one or another department, contact before starting a specialty can cause this man either to want to continue his education or to resign from it. It's very important because it's public money. The fact that he's taking the exam well... At first, when we took young people to work, I thought it was not enough, but this medical knowledge later confirms itself in practice. Indeed, at the beginning of their medical course, these young people are quite well prepared because they are learning because they have exams. And certain non-test qualities that can allow a doctor to do a good job in the future... Perhaps this letter of intent, when someone is active, will appear earlier, as your marshal said, would have his reasons. But there are no clear guidelines on how this is going to work, and that's why we're having second thoughts.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u61	Thank you very much. Perhaps we can discuss this further in the discussion. I inform you that the bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. We welcome the representative of the Ministry to the person of Deputy Minister Josepha Szczurek-Żelazko. And I'm asking if the Minister would like to speak on the matter... Thank you. ...of the bill under consideration. Yes? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u62	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The government is presenting you with a bill that has been long awaited by the environment of doctors and dentists. As you probably know, the bill has not been amended for many, many years in a comprehensive and thorough manner. This law is the result of far-reaching analysis, cooperation with environments, among others. with the environment of doctors, young doctors, resident doctors, but also representatives of the Chief Medical Chamber. Representatives of the Medical Examination Centre and the Postgraduate Medical Training Centre also participated in the work on this law. It was widely discussed. The process of drafting this law was quite long because there were various kinds of proposals or suggestions that were often contradictory. That is why we had to compromise on certain expectations of different environments. This law is precisely such a compromise between medical environments, the environment of national consultants or representatives of the Centre for Medical Examinations. This is a good bill. It introduces a number of solutions that the environment has been waiting for. E.g. We simplify the doctor's education system. We give the opportunity to take exams for the second time, both Lek and PES, which has so far been done for an additional fee. This is the first time we've introduced a salary for a specialist doctor. So far, doctors have received no wages for this, and they have performed this function socially. For the first time we introduce 500 PLN for the first specialist doctor and another 500 PLN for the second. In the case of 3 this is a total of PLN 1 thousand. We introduce leave for doctors, all doctors, both interns, residents and specialist doctors. For the first time, 6-day leave shall be granted to doctors with the right to pay. These are the decisions that the environment has been waiting for for many, many years. There's a question of facilitating the exams that the senator was talking about here, revealing the database of questions. These were proposals that have been reaching the Minister of Health for many, many years. In addition, for many other professions, these databases of questions are disclosed. Now this database of questions will be revealed, with 70% on the exam. questions from an open database of questions and 30% It's gonna be new questions. We regulate post-graduate education. We're introducing the State Modular Examination you were talking about. It is, of course, non-obligatory. A specialist doctor may decide to pass this exam, may apply after the second year of the unitary specialisation or after the primary module. This gives the doctor additional privileges. And the right question is, what's going to happen? If he has more competence, more responsibility, then, of course, the right remuneration should follow. Because health pay is regulated The basic legal act is the Act on the minimum basic salary of health professionals It will certainly be included in this law, among other things. This stage of specialization. So far it has not been included, because in fact this provision is not yet a rule commonly in force in Polish law and doctors who give PEM are not yet in the system. Therefore, since the Minimum Compensation Act is amended, this request will certainly be taken into account in the next amendment so that these doctors can actually be better rewarded. Of course, this will be related to an increase in the availability of benefits, because this doctor will already be able to perform some kind of treatments that he has not been able to perform so far, of course, after fulfilling the requirements set out in the Act. Of course, the bill affects many of the problems mentioned here. The senator pointed out a small number of specializations for dentists. Yes, we do have a very small number of places. The Minister of Health finances all residences and directs doctors after an internship to those places which are available, but the number of these places is determined by the medical entities. Dentistry, as you know, is an area in which commercial players are quite large, and their initiative depends on whether they create residences or not. Of course, we encourage these entities to create these places. At the moment, we are introducing such a mechanism in this law that the voivodship consultant will have the right to check specific specialist practice because we are talking about specialist practices here. and verify that it meets the requirements for the establishment of a residence. If it meets these requirements, the Minister of Health may appeal to this practice to launch a specialization place. So there is a mechanism in this law that is designed to encourage specialist doctors to create these specialization sites. And this provision was mentioned both during the public consultation and during the procedure in the Seym and at the meeting of the Health Committee in the Senate, the provision which the Supreme Council requested to be introduced, namely the possibility of hiring an additional doctor in individual practice or individual specialist medical practice, in no way will increase the number of places for professionals. Because if a doctor hires a second doctor to create a job for him, then for a resident or an intern he will have to create another one, so in no way will this provision affect the increase in the number of residences. Once again, I stress that the Minister of Health grants as many residents as there are places where specializations can take place. I mentioned vacations. Yes, for the first time, we are introducing these leave with the right to pay doctors in the health care system. We're introducing the salary I was talking about. There was a lot of controversy about foreigners, and that is why I will allow myself to refer to this issue in order perhaps to clarify these doubts. Namely we use the model of introduction into the Polish system... this law gives the possibility to introduce into the Polish health system doctors who have completed medical studies in a country other than a country from the European Union, in a country outside the European Union. We give you the opportunity to pursue your profession and to obtain a limited right to pursue your profession to your place and for the time being. This model is modeled on the German model. In Germany, there is exactly this model. Doctors outside the European Union may work in Germany for a limited period of time and in a limited place, and this regulation does not go beyond the standards of European law in any way, which is in line with European Union legislation. In our country, we use such a model that a doctor who wants to pursue a profession in the Republic of Poland can be directed here on the basis of an invitation, which will be given by a specific therapeutic entity. This doctor must then have completed at least five years of medical studies. This is a guarantee that we will not receive doctors who are educated in other cycles, and we know that in some countries around the world doctors are educated even in a three-year cycle of education. So the direct condition is five years of college. This doctor, who will apply for a job in Poland, must be awarded the title of specialist obtained in a given country and a three-year traineeship in this profession as a specialist. Such person shall submit an application to the County Medical Chamber. The Regional Medical Chamber will be able to verify the documents and may, in the event of any doubt, request additional documents or, in the event of doubts as to practical skills, may refer such person to an additional traineeship where he/she can complete his/her competence. This District Medical Council will determine the scope of the competence, the scope of the benefits that the doctor will be able to provide. Of course, this doctor must also demonstrate good knowledge of Polish, which usually means passing the exam on the district medical councils. Such a person may be entitled to pursue a profession limited to a particular hospital, to a specific entity from which the invitation was sent, for a maximum period of 5 years. At that time, he will be able to pursue his profession to the extent that the Chamber will determine. After that time, if he does not proceed to nostrification of the diploma, as defined in the current manner or by the sentence of the Medical Verification Examination, supplementing the internship and the Lec, he loses the possibility to pursue his profession in Poland. And one more thing. This doctor will never be treated as a specialist doctor. He will have such competence as a doctor without specialization, and even though we require that in advance, in his country, he has the title of specialist, qualification, then here, in our country he will not be treated as a specialist. This is a way out for those doctors who have completed their studies in other countries, and there are also Polish citizens who have graduated from higher education in other countries outside the European Union. We assume that these people should be able to communicate with their profession, should pursue their profession, not work, for example. as a medical secretary or a health care professional, because such stories often occur. So that's the rule for foreigners. There was a question and a reservation to this project, why we do not give the opportunity to obtain a second specialization in the form of a residency. This should be distinguished. The doctor may carry out another specialization, but not in residential mode, which is financed by the state budget. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the argument that this will improve the market situation is not entirely true, because a doctor with a second, third or fourth specialization will not at the same time practice in various specializations. The residences are guaranteed, financed from the state budget only and only in the case of the first specialisation and the others are already implemented outside of the residence. Here we simplify most procedures. First of all, there will be a nationwide recruitment for residency. So far there have been a lot of comments that regionalization is controversial, so there will be national recruitment. As has already been said in the course of the discussion, each doctor will be able to determine 15 options that will be taken into account when it comes to residency. These are different variants. Doctors will be able to present them, indicating a certain priority, of course, by choosing the ones that are most important to them. These options relate to the field, so if the doctor can demonstrate these priorities in the area of 15 areas, he can only demonstrate the options in the fields of specialisation. In addition, it can indicate the place, also in several variants, and of course the residence mode or the non-residence mode. We're talking about 15 variants, but the expectation from the medical community was 100 variants. Here we have reached such a compromise that there will be 15 variants for the mode of specialisation. And there was talk of... about places when it comes to doctor specializations... Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the number of resident or specialized places awarded in each region, this is not due to some little understandable model of driving. There is a regulation of the Minister of Health, which in a very precise way determines the type and number of residents in particular specialties. This is also information, which results from a detailed analysis, among others. maps of health needs that are not determined by the elderly, because it's the Minister of Health... Currently, in the regions it is voivodeship, the marshal analyses health needs and, on the basis of these analyses, health priorities and health needs maps are set. On the basis of these data, the number of residences in particular specialties is determined by voivodship. So that's the procedure for determining the number of residences. A letter of intent. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of lack of medical personnel is a problem. not only the lack of numbers, but also the distribution of medical personnel in Poland. We know that at least in large centers there are no human resources. it also occurs, but it is less severe than e.g. in small county cities, small environments, small hospitals or clinics. There really is a very large shortage of HR. Many times, hospital directors, these small county hospitals, have encouraged the Minister of Health to develop a mechanism that would somehow allow the therapeutic team to plan in a given establishment, and so that directors can influence who might eventually work with them in the future. We thought that such a letter of intent issued by the hospital director, still during the course of a student's professional practice, which often takes these practices in a hospital located closest to his place of residence... He often appears in a particular hospital every year, and then he takes an internship in this hospital and becomes known as a person with whom the Director would like to cooperate, and he also chooses a course of specialization which is essential for this hospital. That's why we thought we'd give this person a chance to have extra points in the recruitment process for residence. When it comes to qualifications for these places, the test is considered above all, which is an objective assessment of the level of knowledge of a particular doctor. For this test your doctor may get a maximum of 200 points. But there are other criteria at the moment, these are among others. additional points for the scientific achievements, i.e. here an additional 5 points for the scientific title may be awarded. Such an additional criterion is also scientific publications, so if the doctor shows scientific publications of a scientific nature, he may receive an additional 5 points. And we're introducing another criterion, which is just a letter of intent, which in our intention will oscillate within limits comparable to these additional criteria, which is going to be worth about 5 points. This will certainly not be a decisive criterion, because the test will continue to be decisive. This will be a criterion which, if your doctor decides to specialize in this chosen hospital, will have priority in getting this place. But the exam has to pass, that's an absolute requirement. So that I think it might help improve the personnel situation in these little hospitals. It's a matter of conscience. I will no longer return to the necessity of the Court's judgment. The first option of the draft law states that the obligation to inform is assigned to the Director of the medicinal entity. And during the discussion, public consultation of many directors and doctors, many environments, among others. The doctor's chamber argued that very often hospital directors are doctors who have the right to benefit from the clause of conscience. That was the first argument. The second argument was that the director may not really have the knowledge in which the hospital is performing this type of procedure. or any other procedure at all. He does not know the specifics in detail, does not know the reporting procedures and therefore may not have the full knowledge in which a therapeutic entity such or other treatment may be performed. I would like to remind you that we are discussing abortion procedures which comply with the law, i.e. meet the conditions set out in the Act. We figured if there was a hotline... It's not like we're just gonna make it. The hotline has been functioning for at least a year, very well functioning, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. At 800 190 500 patients can obtain and obtain any information they need. This is a place where you can get information about all treatments, types of treatments, waiting times or many other things that are necessary for you to maintain your health, as well as prevention. This is a place where really such information is available and is given. Ladies and gentlemen, there is not even a law yet, and we know from people employed in the helpline that such questions are already being asked and such information is given. Getting information on the hotline gives you one more important guarantee. There's an anonymity there. In situations where we talk about social problems, this anonymity is very important. We decided at the Ministry of Health level that this condition would be fulfilled by redirecting it to the hotline. Act on public-funded benefits in Article. Article 23 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 requires the directors of the voivodship departments of the National Health Fund to inform about the type, scope, place of granting benefits and the waiting time. We felt that this matter had already been settled from the legal side. The senator has also raised a number of points which I believe were not discussed at the committee meeting, but I will try to address them. The issue of the transfer from voivodship offices to the district medical chambers of matters related to the implementation of the internship. Well, it wasn't discussed. Of course, we might be wondering if the doctor's room would be more appropriate here... This is now entrusted to government authorities. You might be wondering about it, but I don't think this is the time for ad hoc to make these changes today. This entails some burdens, costs and the entire methodology for conducting traineeships. I don't think this is for this place, like I said. There is another important change that may not have been mentioned, namely in the case of trainees... There are situations where an intern's doctor cannot intern in a given hospital This mainly applies to small county hospitals, since there is no internship guardian who meets the statutory requirements. The trainee's guardian could have been a specialist doctor after 5 years of work. At the moment, we are changing this provision and giving you the opportunity to act as an intern of a doctor who has a state medical examination or 3 years of uniform specialisation. These doctors will be able to serve as interns. These are the most important changes. Of course, the team and I are ready to answer your questions. Finally, I would like to confirm that this law was created mainly by the medical community, people who play a very important role in the process of pre- and post-graduate training of doctors. Of course, the Minister of Health leaned over these proposals. As I said, not all of them could be accepted due to conflicting interests, but also the conditions of the state in this regard. However, I think that what was presented in the law passed by the Sejm and presented to the State is a very good law, which was long awaited by the medical community, and I think it will be welcomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators want to ask such a question? First in order was Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u64	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Health is analysing the shortcomings among specialist doctors in which these shortcomings are the greatest. Because, as I understand it, it depends on the number of residences in particular specializations. That's the first question. The second concerns the nostrils of diplomas obtained outside the European Union. How many such applications per year are affected and how many are rejected? And the third issue that you raised was also mentioned by your rapporteur, the question of the requirements for doctors who will work in Poland, of course doctors from outside the European Union. Are these requirements going to be the same as the requirements for people who went abroad right after college, or are there any differences in this matter? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u65	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u66	Maybe one at a time. As far as the analysis on the number of specialists is concerned, of course, this issue is the subject of our analysis, but not only of analyses, also of concrete actions. Of course, the lack of specialists is extremely acute, but above all, there are no doctors, whether they already have the title of a specialist or not. Therefore, concrete measures have been taken for several years to improve this situation. In the last few years we have greatly increased the number of higher education institutions in medical faculties, we have 22 universities at the moment, and in 2015 there were 15 such universities. 22 universities that have been accredited and trained doctors. The process of training doctors is long-term, and therefore the results will probably be visible in a few or several years. But these actions are being taken. Also the issue of wages, the guarantee of wage increases, especially for professionals, to whom we have provided a clear increase in salaries... For example, even the amount of PLN 6 000 750 minimum basic salary, guaranteed to a doctor of a professional in one medical facility. These are amounts which with derivatives already give a certain level of remuneration, which is perhaps no longer an argument to leave the country. In general, these actions are being undertaken. As far as specific specialisations are concerned, it looks the same, it is as defined as in the case of priority specialisation, for which doctors during the residency get additional salaries... These areas are identified as priority areas. Mostly it's a family doctor, a paramedic, a geriatric... well, I could mention, there are dozens of those areas that we regard as priority areas. We are taking action to improve the situation. These activities are mainly aimed at improving the working conditions of doctors employed in our country, educated in our country, and the law we are talking about and the possibility of hiring doctors from countries outside the European Union is as if an additional mechanism that can improve the situation in the country. The second question concerned the nostrilisation of diplomas and applications. On average, there are about 80 of them. If the senator expects a precise answer, we can give it in writing, but on average there are about 80 such requests on a national scale. Doctors who want to introduce diplomas are very often pointing out that this is a very burdensome, long-term and costly process, which is why we have decided to introduce doctors with limited professional rights into the system. I think that especially those doctors who have Polish origins will benefit from this. Well, we know that in many countries there are doctors who have been educated abroad, but have Polish origins, know Polish and would like to work in our country. Well, because they have graduated from universities in countries outside the European Union, so far they have not had that possibility. What is the difference between the treatment of a doctor's degree from outside the European Union and a doctor who has completed his studies in Poland but has gone abroad? So, yes: if the doctor has completed his studies in Poland but has not completed his internship or passed his final exam, only immediately after his graduation he left and, as I understand it, started working outside the European Union without having obtained the right to pursue his profession in the European Union, then in this situation he is treated exactly the same as a doctor from outside the Union. After returning to the country, he must pass an internship and pass a medical final exam, which will eventually empower him to apply for a residence. Well, that was his decision. He completed the training process but did not take care of the element of the traineeship. I will remind you that the traineeship has been notified to the European Commission and is already included as part of pre-graduate education. Well, a traineeship is required in every country of the European Union. This also applies to doctors who are educated in our country. If someone left after passing the final exam and taking his internship and then returned, then he still has the right to pursue his profession and is treated just like any other doctor who completed a whole cycle of pre-graduate education in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister. You're asking Senator Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u68	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a brief question about an area that was not discussed during this debate. The point is that some of these records concern research experimentation and clinical experimentation. Of course, we have already discussed this at the committee meeting. It is undoubtedly necessary to regulate this issue in a separate law, especially as there is a need to introduce new medicines, new therapies in connection with the coronavirus. All of this should be regulated in a clear way so that it is clear how we can examine individual preparations and medicines, including in the case of new diseases. But this is also related to the activities of the Medical Research Agency. When this agency was formed, we received a promise that there would be a clinical trial bill. We have already discussed this with the Minister at the committee meeting. I would like the Minister to address my statement and say whether he sees the need for such a bill and when we might possibly expect it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u69	Thank you for that question. I would like to stress that this issue is also regulated in pharmaceutical law, although this requires regulation in many areas. Therefore, the Agency for Medical Research has prepared an appropriate bill on clinical trials, and we in the Ministry of Health are already finalizing work on this project. According to my statement last night, In a month, I think. This will be reported on the list of government work. If we obtain such an entry, it will be possible to forward the project to the public for consultation. The Minister of Health sees the need to regulate this area. Indeed, the development of medical sciences has a need to regulate various aspects. This is precisely the issue of the introduction of innovative methods, new therapies, etc. These regulations, which are currently in force, allow the application of e.g. certain novel drug therapies, but they are not precise enough to raise doubts. So that we are working on this bill, and soon we will hand it over to the public for a public consultation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u70	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I have a brief question to ask you to clarify what the Minister was talking about, namely a doctor's leave for a doctor who is taking a state specialization exam. How long is vacation? How many days of this vacation do you propose? This is a paid vacation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u72	We introduce 6-day leave, 6-day holiday paid. Generally, we introduce 6 days of leave for education or training for all doctors, i.e. interns doctors, resident doctors and specialist doctors. Each of the doctors will be able to take 6-day training leave for up-skilling, and there are also 6 more days to prepare for the final year of training. So it's like this 6-day vacation that comes from this bill, plus six more days to prepare for the exam. I would also like to stress that doctors in the course of their specialization have the so-called. time for self-education, because in this mode it is specified in the specialization program, so this time can also be spent preparing for the exam. Specialization lasts 5 years. I think systemicity will make it unnecessary to sit down in the last 2 months and re-learn the entire programme that should be implemented within 5 years. I'd like to ask you one more question. I'm not gonna ask any more questions. Minister, you spoke of consultations, extensive consultations with medical circles. How much of this vacation did the medical community offer? The proposals were different, for example. However, ladies and gentlemen, this is a similar issue as in the case of the remuneration of the head of specialization. So far it hasn't been at all, and now all of a sudden, we want him to get some big money. Same with the vacation. There was no vacation, now we propose 6 days, so there is a expectation that it will be 25 days or some days. I think here... As I said at the beginning, this law was a big compromise between expectations and opportunities. At this stage, we considered that six-day leave has the right dimension, especially since in many other medical professions we also introduce six-day leave. We didn't want to differentiate that between nurses or paramedics or the physiotherapists or pharmacists. In all these laws that we are amending, we are introducing the same dimension of education leave. That's why this number, this six-day vacation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u73	I'm just going to tell the senators that the Senate Amendment 10, which we introduced at the committee's meeting, is 14 days long because many hospitals, hospital directors, are currently having big financial problems, as we know. So, after a broad discussion, the senators accepted the amendment on 14 days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u74	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have two questions. One is the question about this specialized place. During her speech, the Minister stated at one point that these specializations were granted as much as the places prepared by the individuals who could carry out these specializations, and at the other point that this was determined in cooperation with the voivodships, according to the assessment of the map of health needs in the area concerned, etc., and those deficit specializations are allocated in a certain number. So my question is... I would like the Minister to clarify whether these specializations, these places, are allocated as many as the units are capable of creating, or is it somehow, say, regulated or allocated according to another key? That's my first question. The second is the question of this helpline, which is sufficient to inform patients or patients in cases where a conscience clause is used. I have a question: how many such questions have there been over the last year regarding cases related to possible abortion? It's like half a question. And the other half: do the people who support this hotline have information about individual doctors and their positions? I mean, by giving this information, they're sending a patient to some hospital or some place where you can do some kind of examination or procedure, but if this patient goes to a doctor who's going to be there too... after all, she's going to some doctor, not an institution as such. And if this doctor, this doctor, is going to use a conscience clause, then... Or is it such a precise referral that these patients or these patients are addressed to a doctor we know is not using this clause? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u76	There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u77	I'm answering a question about specialization. I spoke in the context of dentists about all the specialized places used. Because here was a discussion about how we have very few specializations for dentists. But in fact, all these places are... all permanent specialization sites are headed by doctors. If the matter concerns other specialties, it is as you know, that the Minister of Health partially finances residents from the state budget, and some places are awarded in a non-residence manner. And we also take into account the number of points that each candidate gets in a given specialty. Of course, when we plan these residential places, in these extrastomatological areas, we take into account the needs 'Cause very often there are so-called. trendy areas in which there are, of course, shortcomings, but they are less severe than in deficit areas, such as: geriatrics or family medicine. Therefore, on the basis of an analysis of health needs maps, the Minister decides that more residences, i.e. those financed by the state budget, are allocated in a given area, in other areas, where this shortage is less acutely felt, fewer residences are allocated However, this does not mean that all specialization sites are unused, because we still have a non-residence mode, which is also implemented in our country and these places are used in non-residence mode. As you know, recruitments for specializations are conducted twice a year, i.e. in the autumn session and in the spring session. We try to model this process in such a way that these places are always used to the fullest. Oh, there's the matter of a conscience clause. With regard to the helpline and questions about the possibility of performing a given procedure, ladies and gentlemen, these questions, telephones on the helpline And I talked about it with the president of the National Health Fund, when in the Seym or the Health Committee in the Seym we proposed that this way we could get information. Of course, this information about the operation of the hotline was widely known, and we also took actions to promote the possibility of obtaining information through the hotline. But during the discussion on the issue of a clause of conscience, this problem was raised as if it had been raised and phone calls had started since then. And I know because I have information that such phone calls are and are pointed out by specific therapeutic entities. Now: to what level of detail is this knowledge passed on? The National Health Fund shall provide information on the entity, because, as a state that operates in the health system, the reporting shall include a list of procedures carried out with details of the entity and of the specific area, i.e. a specific branch, but it is not, as I say, the reported person who personally carried out the procedure. The list of persons is in the Provider's Portal, including the general, without defining which procedure is performed by which doctor. So this level of knowledge is passed on. The person concerned shall be informed of the hospital, i.e. that the hospital in question shows such procedures during the last reporting period. You can also get information about many other treatments, because patients often call the NFZ and ask where cataract surgery can be performed, how much is waiting for surgery in a given hospital, where you can do knee or hip replacements. So this isn't an extraordinary thing. This helpline works, provides detailed information and this information can also be obtained on this helpline.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u78	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Ewa Matecka. Dear Marshal, in the light of the questions previously raised and the answers given by the Minister, I resign from the task of my question. Everything I wanted to ask was clear in the course of the Minister's reply. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I'll let you... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's Senator Hare.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u79	Thank you very much. Minister, I would like to return to these 15 options and to the possibility of changing specialization once. I was asked that question after what you said to the marshal, i.e. I'm gonna do your specialty. Is it possible that the head of specialization will refuse to accept your graduate or your medical graduate? 'Cause it's kind of connected, I mean. He got a referral, and somebody didn't take it, so he's gonna change and so on... It's kind of a technical thing, but it's possible... Yeah, sure. Is it possible?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u80	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u81	These are two different problems. As far as the possibility of another specialization or resignation and continuation of the residency in another specialty is concerned, it is a possibility that the resident may resign. So far, it has been possible to resign only in relation to health conditions, i.e. if... And only once. Yeah, just once. Now we give the opportunity to resign without giving a reason. Well, it happened that the doctor decided to stay, I don't know, a surgeon, and suddenly within a year or two he thought it wasn't his dream job. We give him the opportunity to resign and start another specialization in residential mode. Because we're always talking about the state budget-funded mode. Yes. In non-residence mode it is completely arbitrary. And when it comes to the issue of admissions for specialization, I'm going to say that the qualification is transparent. If you are a specialist It will now be a nationwide call, point out some priorities, indicate that it wants to specialise in a specific area, in a specific region, and if it passes the exam, it will get a sufficient number of points, it is addressed to a specific entity. And there's no way to refuse him on the basis of some vague criteria, if there's a specific specialization place. There's no way to refuse. Well, unless there's no room available, but that knowledge is in the possession of the manager. This may happen, for example. The head of specialization suddenly has no possibility, for various reasons he cannot continue to care for residents. In such a situation, it is known that such a person returns and may be assigned to another entity. But there must be objective procedure here, not discretionary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u82	Thank you very much. Minister, let me ask you two questions, too. I'm going back to those letters of intent. As we both know, a very important medical final exam or dental final exam checks the theoretical messages. But half of medicine is surgical discipline, and no one checks the technical, practical, manual knowledge. That means that this letter of intent would make sense if, for example. The head of surgery may have written that the graduate spent six months in circles with him, wrote a study paper, etc. This intention, which governs the state, is more like the scholarships funded, which were formerly, i.e. The students received money, but later they had to work off at the hospital from which they were kept. And here's my question: do you think about such criteria regarding treatment disciplines? Because there are the most common changes when people see that their love is not mutual and that someone loves surgery doesn't mean that surgery loves him. I can give examples of life here. The second question concerns the criteria for the modular examination. It's an old so-called. The one that I took myself, except that this one gave some financial gratification, not much, as I remember, I got a raise in the order of 50 zlotys, but still. If it's not gratified, if it's just an obligation and you can take this test voluntarily, no one will go along with it. Everyone will strive for the final specialization exam, since there will be no benefits from the modular one, only the need to learn for this exam. Do you consider, however, that this financial leap for the young doctor, for the work that passed this exam, will take place? The third question concerns the revision of the rules for the disclosure of examination questions. As we both know, there have been great controversy as to whether the questions are to be revealed or not, how much to reveal, how much to reveal, how much to be new. This worked out solution is, it seems, rather compromise. Answer me, was that the reason why you completed Professor Klencki's excellent mission as director of the Medical Examination Center? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u83	Thank you. Dear Marshal, Professor! I am very pleased that Mr. Marshal, I presume, supports this idea of a letter of intent, but we probably still have a lot to do about the formula. The intention is that, after determining the predisposition to perform a specific specialty in the profession of doctor, the head of the healthcare professional may issue a letter which will make it easier, so to speak, to obtain a residence in a given therapeutic entity. This should, of course, take place in the course of a discussion within the therapeutic entity. Manager of the medicinal product, which e.g. He's not a doctor, he's not gonna make that decision on his own, and it's obvious he's gonna be feeding on the expertise of a specialty manager who should be... no, not a manager, sorry, just for example. an internship guardian who will in fact be the initiator of this process. For the first time, we are introducing such a solution and it may need to be improved, perhaps adding some specific provisions. I'm sure we'll keep an eye on this process and analyze it. I would like to stress that, for example. additional points for 3 years of service in a given treatment facility are already granted as part of the qualification for out-of-residence mode. So it's kind of equalizing with this out-of-residence mode. With regard to doctors' salaries after the State modular examination, I already said at the outset that the main law that regulates remuneration is the Act on the minimum basic salary of workers employed in medicinal entities. If this legislation, which we are talking about today, becomes a universal law, then it is certainly in the form of a trilateral dialogue, because in such a formula this law is negotiated, amended, we will report this issue. This will, of course, require regulation in terms of remuneration. I want to highlight one thing. This doctor will be able to carry out a number of specialized services on his own. He can, for example. in a specialist clinic to carry out certain benefits on its own. The Director of the medicinal product should take into account that it is possible to demonstrate it to the National Health Fund as a self-employed person. And then there's the question of exams. I think that as far as changing the recipe is concerned... It was expected by the environment. I think the ratio of 70:30 guarantees an analysis of the quality of the preparation of doctors for this profession. The decisions of the director of the Medical Examination Center are his personal decisions. During the procedure of this law, the Director denied these records many times. We have consulted other environmental representatives and the Minister for Health does not see such risks in terms of reducing the quality of doctor training by revealing these questions as the current Director has defined it. Well, we respect that, it's the Professor's personal decision, and as such we accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u84	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. He'll be the first to speak... Senator Beat Małecka-Libera will be the first to speak because Senator Aleksander Szwed has submitted a statement to the minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that this law was indeed a very expected law, primarily by the medical community, and in the course of negotiations, by consensus, is adopted. It is a law that regulates not only the training process of an intern's doctor, a resident, but the entire specialization process. And as we all know, we lack staff, well-educated staff, who in these difficult situations are at the moment, especially when we are talking about demography, about an increased number of chronic civilization diseases, the fact that we need these doctors more and more... This will certainly increase the will not only to graduate, get a degree, specialization, but also, what I think is quite important, staying in the country. We want our doctors, our graduates to work here, in Poland, and also, as the Minister said, that those who come from abroad should also have decent conditions for both education and work. And now we're really getting to the point, that we'd really like the number of doctors, dentists to increase. But staff is only part of the health system, very important, maybe even the most important, but unfortunately only part. Doctors who learn, specialize, learn in specific medical subjects and every day face the problems that our health care system unfortunately has. HR, like I said, is one element. The second part of the system is financing, and the third part is an organisation. And there is a great deal to be done in the case of both funding and the organisation of our healthcare system. In order for a doctor, both an intern doctor and later a specialist, to feel good about this system, it is undoubtedly necessary to increase the financing of the entire healthcare system. Of course we know, we've heard it's called. Act 6% GDP for health, but we also know with which principles it has been adopted that the ratio of resources that are transferred to health protection is dated 2 years back and only on this basis is the amount that is allocated to health. I don't want to say that part of the medical environment has been tricked a little bit this way, but the financial flow to the system is much smaller. Moreover, from the information I have, it is clear that in the years 2018 and 2019 the National Health Fund did not receive funds from the implementation of this law. And in the Council of Social Dialogue, the Minister made it clear that the first tranche of 6.8 billion would not reach there until 2021. So it is evident that there is no additional funding from the budget, which has been mentioned so much. The second issue is pay, wages which are constantly rising, which are often the subject of various debates. And it is said that the expectations of residents or interns are met. Ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I have reached for specifics. 2008. Turns out the intern's doctor was making money at the time... The minimum wage was PLN 1 thousand 100 and he earned 160% minimum wage, i.e. PLN 1 thousand 800. Similarly in 2020, since 1 July 2020, he earns PLN 2 000 900. That's a lot less, unfortunately, because relatively... if he was making this 160% Minimum wage, it should earn 4,000 200 zlotys. This is just an example, but it shows how much we still have to do in terms of financing health care. The second area is an organizational area. There is much to be said here about the cooperation of individual actors, about how the patient operates in the system. I'll just mention one element, the hospital network bill. The hospital network law was supposed to guarantee health safety. That was the most important credo of this bill. Unfortunately, we all see ourselves now and we hear from the directors of county hospitals how much they have problems because of it, how much trouble they have right now with a lump sum. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about it because this is the kind of system a young man starts to educate. And he sees all these relationships and relationships. So if we want to keep him in the country, we need to remember that such a health system does not guarantee him the sense of security and the fulfillment of the mission we are talking about, the fulfilment of which we are seeking. Therefore, this element is undoubtedly also consistent with the training of doctors. What happened recently? Unfortunately, this underfunded system of health care, including large organisational deficiencies, is facing a period of very turbulent, unknown, difficult epidemic. She's tough on everyone. We've all been studying, we've all been in fear, we've all been afraid for our lives, for our health and for our loved ones. But it must be remembered that on the front line there were medical workers, young and elderly doctors, medical staff, who, regardless of the situation, even if they had personal protective equipment, whether they were tested, stood at the station every day and fought for the life and health of our society. Why am I talking about this? Because this is a great example of how medical staff became the center of attention at the time. And why until today, apart from the fact that the whole society has been helping, sewing masks, raising funds and supporting health, there is no uniform message from the Ministry of Health that these workers and these doctors were the most important to the Ministry of Health? Why didn't the Ministry of Health bring in a shield project, a shield for medical personnel? Why did you have to fight for them to be tested? Why was it so difficult to get personal protective equipment for them at first? Why am I talking about this? Because it also shapes young generations. They also watched it and participated actively in it. The epidemic has completely exposed the shortcomings of our system. Unfortunately, then there were conflicting decisions: once wear masks, once wear masks, once test those who are sick, whether they can screen. This chaos isn't helping. But what does that say? This in turn shows that there is no good flow of information, that the Ministry of Health does not treat health workers as partners, that we do not talk from an expert point of view, what we can do together to help each other in such a difficult situation, and this is also a lesson for young doctors. And what's been going on lately, which is a shadow on the Ministry of Health, it's not nice for us, for health professionals, for me as a doctor. I don't want to hear that the Ministry of Health bought something more expensive or without a certificate, or bought 1 000 200 ventilators, of which they say 50 are somewhere. I would like to know on the basis of which he purchased such a number of ventilators, or if there was a need to buy such a number, I would like to know whether it was the only purchase, or whether there were other purchases before, or whether there was such a need in these COVID hospitals... On the other hand, we hear that the demand, the use of hospitals converted into one-named hospitals was only 30%. The Minister of Health, along with the Prime Minister, says this: we have won the epidemic, we are freezing off. Also here are illogical, sometimes inconsistent decisions. But we're freezing the economy. What do we see? Senator, slowly... I'm almost done. What do we see epidemiologically? Epidemiologically, we still have a persistent number of infections. Today's more than 500, too. We've already forgotten that this epidemic is, and she is. In the meantime, what do we hear in our messages? Well, let's hear it: well, society has now taken off their masks and doesn't give in to the regulations that the Ministry is talking about. But the Ministry is currently issuing conflicting regulations. Why am I talking about this? Because that's what young doctors are picking up. In conclusion, let me say this: if we want this doctor's profession bill to work, if we want to educate our doctors well, so that they are educated to have high professional morals, ethics, empathy, then we need to create a whole health system for them. And that's the kind of discussion I miss. And I lack the strategy for the coming months so that we know where we are and what steps we are to take as the nearest one. Then we'll all work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u86	Thank you very much, Senator. At the moment, the senator, Professor Alicia Chybick, will take the floor remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u87	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say a little bit differently about the education of our doctors, from the point of view of a person who is 45 years of training in pre-graduate education and post-graduate education. Maybe I'll start with what's not the subject of the bill we're debating today. I will talk about pre-diploma education, which is very important in connection with what will happen after the diploma. Well, medical schools, of course, try to educate students as best as possible, but how they do it and how they set them up depends on what they do after college. And here I'm going to go right back to... Maybe I'll start with what this bill starts with, what it's like to be a doctor at all. Because it's not just the treatment of the sick, as most people probably seem. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 of this law we have, as point 1, the conduct of research or development in the field of medical sciences, in point 2 of the Law on the teaching of the profession of doctor, in point 3 of the Act on the management of a medical entity, in point 4 of the Act on employment in entities obliged to finance medical benefits, i.e. the performance of medical benefits. And going back to, like, other points of this bill, what I'm trying to say is that from what a student does, whether he works in some scientific circle, if he's studying surgery, if he's studying pediatrics, if he's learning hematooncology, if he's learning transplants, if he's in a particular circle... Six thousand Wrocław students signed letters of intent. I think signatures have been collected all over Poland. The point was that there shouldn't be letters of intent, just to judge both forms, depending on whether or not someone is a doctor. or a dentist based on the points obtained from the test. But really, whether someone in the pre-diploma period has learned this specialty, in which they want to start, is extremely important. And that's why the matter of letters of intent... Of course, nepotism is not acceptable anywhere. And this isn't about someone protege someone for more specific reasons. But no doubt, if you've been raising a young man since college in academic circles... There's a big scientific circle at the clinic of Hope, led by Professor Kałwak, and most of the doctors who work at the clinic are adepts coming from this circle. This was already mentioned by Marshal Grodzki, but he did not give an example, and I will tell you that a colleague who worked for many years in school, notabene male almost two meters, powerful... When it came to doing bone marrow punctuation, he passed out after graduating and was so discouraged that he did specialization in radiology, not in pediatrics, and then oncohaematology of children, as we expected. So that what Minister Szczurek-Żelazko said happens every day. A man must be able to change his specialisation, and this law takes that into account. A very important thing is the accreditation places, because after all... If I say something wrong, the Minister will probably correct me. And the accreditation places... After all, apart from the fact that an accreditation body in a given area must have equipment, it must have specialists first of all. So far. I guess it's still going on, because I didn't find any changes in this very extensive law, for 1 specialist doctor, there are 3, and only 3 specialists. Whether it is a residential or non-residence road, because, as you have heard, there are two types of these places. And, for example, In the unit that I have the privilege of directing, non-residence places are permanently empty, because in this way very few people want to be educated. Most doctors are fighting for residences, which is what the Ministry of Health pays for. Even so, such doctors are also eager to be seen by the headmasters of the institutions. And, of course, in our great academic clinical hospital in Wrocław there are several hundred residents. Ladies and gentlemen, these restrictions are therefore human restrictions. The tragedy in Poland, apart from what Senator Małecka-Libera has said, has exchanged well those points where this health care is now falling apart, and why people no longer want to be doctors, do not want to be educated in certain specialties... They choose the ones where the pay for a particular job is adequate. Until now, I've specialized in... That's not why I'm saying I wish I'd gotten any money. God forbid. But it wasn't paid up until now, it was in community service. We've been teaching... I've always had three people, but sometimes a fourth person was allowed because there were just no seats. And that's a narrow throat, because specialists go to pensions and those specialists who can take young people to education in a particular specialization, they don't come. There's definitely not enough of them. And here is also the question to the Ministry of Health, what is to be done in such a situation. Another large part of this bill concerns doctors who either left Poland... These are the most common people who went straight after college without internship, e.g. to Ukraine or have completed their studies in Ukraine and have not yet completed their specialization in Ukraine. I'm afraid of one thing... Our college... Annually, the accreditation committee accredited 14 or 15 doctors from other countries and, ladies and gentlemen, passed through these fourteen twelve. I'm scared... This change that has been introduced in this law, yes, will give us more doctors to work, but will it not reduce very much the quality of their services? However, there are quite large differences, despite the fact that when we look at university data programs in a given country, which is the minimum programme, we see that they are identical. But sometimes they didn't go through a sieve of students who came from a country where on paper the minimum programming was much bigger, but their knowledge and skills were really very, very weak. Another thing, although it may be said here for a long time, is another very important matter which is raised here, and which I have repeatedly practically in the course of... Anyway, everything I'm talking about, I've been through and over and over again in my professional life. It's about the medical experiment. Ladies and gentlemen, medical experiments are divided into clinical experiments and life-saving medical experiments, that is, when all methods of therapy are exhausted. In the latter case, also in the light of this law, the doctor has the right to make such a decision that, with the consent of the ethics committee, he applies... It's a novelty that's included in this bill, that's the fact that every medical experiment has to be insured. This has always been about introducing new medicines, and now it would also be about so-called. clinical cases, i.e. cases where for clinical indications a doctor, not a company, only a doctor, decides that in order to save or improve the patient's life or health he wants to introduce... Luckily, there's an art. 23c, i.e. In the event of a life-threatening situation, you can withdraw from insurance, which means I can say... decide to save a child's life without that insurance. In general, this bill, this woman. I'm sorry to say this, but this is a great bill that has arranged a lot of things. Is she gonna fix anything... Professor... Oh, I haven't said the important thing yet... Time is running out. ...it's about computerization of training. It is also included in this law and this makes the view of both the Minister of Health, the Medical Centre for Postgraduate Training and the same interested person, and the one who educates him. I could still talk a lot about such practical things, but I don't want to prolong. I think this bill was needed, but there are still many, many places that need to be clarified and improved. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u89	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm going to be very brief, and I'm going to appreciate your time. At this point, I would like to address, first of all, the rulers, the ministry. I think that the time of the epidemic is the time when the rulers should take care of those who are fighting for the health of Poles. This is the time when... it may be awkward to talk about money all the time, but even the money that's been negotiated, as if we'd gone backwards, on the way of strikes. 2007, strike of residents from 2017, Brodnowski Hospital... There were some arrangements with the Minister that you didn't quite live up to. I mean, GDP isn't progressive, it's two years ago. But that's what the president was talking about. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to rejuvenate a little and become a resident that I will never be. I think that because we have such a broad representation of doctors in the Higher House, because there are 13 of us of all political options, and in the Seym only 16, it is... On behalf of the state, but first of all I would like to thank the residents, because they had the courage to make such demands that our generation never spoke so directly about. If I were a resident now and spoke on behalf of residents... I do not agree with everything, but they will one day be doctors, they will treat us and their level of education, their education, their number that is absolutely what the Polish state should take care of. We're trying to get doctors from abroad. I don't mind, but let's remember that education I'm a cardiologist. E.g. cardiologist in Ukraine lasts 3 months, and in Poland it lasts 3 years. We should all lean on the quality of our medical services, because medicine is like a speeding pendolino, either we drive it or we go out. For both clinical trials and medical experiments. There's a huge amount of money needed here. It's either cheap or expensive. Cheap does not always mean well, although the Polish doctor in Europe is noticeable, because there are plenty of patients who come to us to treat themselves and choose us. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is whether the residents are satisfied with this bill. The Minister said here that there have been extensive consultations with medical representatives. On the basis of various press reports, interviews with residents, because they are now recognizable in Poland... What are they afraid of? Afraid of the various dangers associated with facilitating foreign doctors' access to the right to pursue their profession This provision was detailed in detail. And taking up work without a degree nostrils. And Polish doctors, leaving for the United States, must undergo absolutely every stage of nostrilization. Residents are also afraid of mandatory delivery of resident doctors for six months internships in county hospitals. I have a slightly different opinion here, but as I told you, I wanted to rejuvenate a little bit and be this resident at least during this speech. I think that sometimes field practice also has a good impact on the education of a young medical student. Selected remunerations of specialization managers. According to the professor, we have been training these doctors for many years, understanding the needs of our fellow countrymen, and that if we don't have them... We were also educated by some specialized executives and they were not paid for it. This is an absolute novel. Although these are salaries which do not meet the demands of residents, they are heavily cut. But, of course, for this request of residents, thank you very much. The requirement to obtain professional skills certificates. As a doctor of practice, I also conduct many courses, confirming skills. Here is a dissonance: specializations are obtained in 6-year mode, and yet we have to confirm our skills with certificates, but it serves, already in my opinion, to improve the quality of the services performed. Well, unfortunately, I have to tell you. I'm talking to a country that isn't a doctor. However, often a doctor, as well as a resident or a specialist, pays for these certificates with his own money and then heals patients. I'm not getting divorced anymore. The initiative of this law was however in the hands of residents and the year 2017 showed that it was gaining some momentum, the band met regularly, but somewhere along the way it missed out and then there was a completely new law, with such an input of the rulers mainly about these nostrils of diplomas. I am only asking you from this point of view, that we pay very much attention to the level of education of young doctors and that this level is comparable to that of young doctors throughout the world. It is known that there is no perfect system anywhere, because there are needs, societies are getting old, there are increasingly diverse specializations and generally such holistic approach to the patient is already a past, although there is a relapse in certain areas of medicine at the moment, so to speak. However, the time of the epidemic has shown that we really need to pay attention to this, not only before the elections, but all the time. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u90	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Dorota Czudowska, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I would just like to talk about the bill under review today, because some of the speeches have come down to other important topics, but not to the law. In the beginning, maybe such a reflection about the superiority of the Senate, our upper chamber, over the lower chamber. I read to myself, preparing for this bill, about what was going on in the Sejm. And I think the ministers feel the difference. In the Seym there were pagans, there were bells, reminders that time was running out, while in the Senate there were specific questions asked by the Minister, as well as the Senator of the rapporteur. If someone who is not a doctor, who is not a health manager, who is not a health policyian, would like to know something about this law, he will surely have knowledge after reading the transcript of our discussion. And in the Sejm, there were these things: there's not enough, there's got to be even, there's got to be added. But I'm going back to our Act on amending the Act on Doctor and Dentist Competitions and some other laws. We all know, also those who are going to study in the future or are already studying medicine, that medical studies are long and very difficult. The process of obtaining specialization and professional improvement is also not easy, and the work of a doctor for the rest of his life is just a task and responsibility. But fortunately, young people It's a good thing they don't always listen to us. They want to study medicine. And even though our government has increased recruitment in recent years, we have several thousand more students, there are still fewer places to study than willing ones. It's a good thing there's magic in this profession. Despite all the difficulties that have been mentioned for several years, despite complaining that there is a disaster, that it is wrong that everything is wrong, willing to do this profession is not lacking. This law is intended to help us to ensure that as many doctors as possible who complete their studies in Poland, as well as those who wish to come to us, especially from outside the European Union, can gain specialization, can help patients. In fact, we are talking in this bill about doctors and dentists, about how they are going to go through a cycle of post-graduate training, specialized training, professional skills and improvement of these skills. This bill actually serves the sick, it serves our patients, because they need us. Specialists are extremely needed today. The crazy dynamic development of medical sciences, research, medical procedures and medical procedures requires specialization. There's no way a doctor is a great cardiac surgeon today, and a great neurosurgeon is just an example. We must have specialists, and the path to specialisation must be as transparent as possible, but also demanding, hence 5 years of training has its justification. I'm not gonna talk about a lot of things anymore, maybe even bring in some chaos because I don't want to repeat myself. The Senator rapporteur and the Minister, after completing their statements with answers to questions, have really been very clear and well put, I think, the point of this law. I'm going back to the specialist issue. The lines to them, as we know, are today... This is the weakest and most sensitive point of Polish health care. Everyone says they've been waiting the longest for specialists. Like I said, we can't do without them today. The specialists who work today are those who are my age, that is, those who do not have to work, or those who come to this age. Most specialists are 50 years old. So this red light is still shining and we need to do everything to our system of these specialists to deliver as many as possible, and those from Poland, and those who want to come to us. Maybe I'll mention again that it's not. In all shortcomings, the COVID pandemic prevention law is not a wage bill. It's all in the other laws. This is the introduction of new rules for conducting the Medical Final and Medical and Dental Final Exams, a series of regulations, the introduction of a new legal framework covering post-graduate training, the introduction of new arrangements for recruitment procedures for doctors and dentists for specialization or the implementation of specialization training. The bill is very extensive. As Senator rapporteur and Minister said, the work on it has been going on for a very long time since 2018. The final provisions that we have before us today are also the result of compromises with representatives of many social parties, such as the Resident Agreement or the General Medical Council. And these changes just require for carers... It was said that it is possible to introduce the so-called sentence after the third year of specialization training. State Modular Exam, which compares with the first degree of specialization It's just a comparison. That he's optional, but he doesn't do anything either. It gives, because if someone passes the exam, they can be a guardian after 3 years and not after 5 years. an internship, which means there are additional places to train new specialists. So for those willing and ambitious, this is an opportunity, of course it is not mandatory. Well, that's what the minister said, the benefits for the internship managers. They may not be very high, but 1 thousand zlotys a month additionally it's not so little again This is the sum if you have at least 2 trainees, because for one there is 500 PLN and so far it has never been. This holiday, which is granted in the specialized cycle to every doctor Once a year 6 days, and before the exam 6 days... well, that never happened either. Well, maybe it's not much, but it's always better than nothing, you can make it out of it for two weeks because weekends are coming, you can swap with a friend on duty, and it can take up to two weeks. There are new rules for conducting these exams, as was mentioned. There is a 70% availability questions. How Someone Can Answer These Questions After all, the laymen do not learn the answers to these questions, they must know the merits of the case. And how can he respond well to an additional 30%? questions, that's when it's pointing. There's an exemption from the second exam fee. If it is not passed the first time, then the second approach is still free of charge and was paid. So there are many such solutions that are really good and innovative today. The rules of accreditation of training entities, scoring rules, recruitment for specialization, what was said, this central database and the selection of specialisations, possibly even workplaces... Well, this law also states that it is no longer possible to specialize in volunteering, i.e. for every job the doctor does as part of his specialization, he must be paid. This bill... Senator, it's been 10 minutes. Now, right? It also sets out rules for the exercise of medical services, specialization rules for doctors outside the European Union, as the Minister was very much informed about. Many amendments were made at the committee meeting. The Senators of Law and Justice do not agree with everyone, also with this clause of conscience But we will vote in favour of this law by the High House. From this point of view, I would like to thank you once again very warmly and to pay great tribute to all, absolutely all those who have worked on this law for these two long years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u93	We will have a one-and-a-half-hour break from the amendments tabled to the previous laws, as well as to the resolution. Since there is only one senator left to speak, I suggest you close those who want to speak... A list of speakers. ...i.e. A list of speakers... We're not shutting people down. [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...people who want to talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u94	Thank you very much. I understand that this is a formal request to close the list of speakers. If I don't hear any objection, I'll take that as a yes. I don't hear any objections. The list of speakers has been closed. I therefore ask you to take the last floor on Senator Wojciech Necessary's list.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we are discussing the Act on Doctor and Dentist Competitions. It is a law that regulates the principles of performing a beautiful profession, one of the most beautiful that can be done. In Poland, however, this is a very difficult profession, often ungrateful, so we, as those who create the laws that create the law, should try to make all these rules as simple and as friendly as possible to those who do it. Unfortunately, this bill is complex, complicated, it has a lot of points, subsections, paragraphs. Of course, this amendment should be adopted, but it seems to me that we should, however, start working on a new law that will simply be unambiguous. At the moment, it is a thicket of rules that sometimes find it really hard to find. There are also good solutions in this law, such as: a modular exam, which in a sense represents a return to the former one. This really seems like a good solution, although of course there should be some congratulations here for doctors who decide to pass this test. Well, they're making an effort after all. There is also a limited right to pursue a profession for foreigners who will thus be able to work in a given hospital. At the same time, the shortage of doctors that we are dealing with was an expected solution. So that you can be commended here several times for introducing certain rules, although it must also be acknowledged that by introducing them, you are revealing certain weaknesses. Well, for example. You're introducing 500 zlotys for a doctor who takes care of a young resident. Indeed, on the one hand, 500 PLN is a big step forward in a situation where it was zero, but on the other hand 500 PLN per month for a specialist to pass on knowledge to a young doctor is very little. Well, it was zero, and now it's very little, so we stop here halfway. There are good solutions here, but they're not exactly going where they need to be. Besides, the issue of doctor pay alone could be a little broader in this regard. The environment is waiting for certain wage minima to be established. I believe that 6,000 750 PLN for a specialist doctor is not some huge amount that would keep these doctors from leaving. They usually work somewhere else, they're on duty outside the hospital. Well, I'm not going to develop it. The letter of intent has some positive qualities, but it is completely underdeveloped and it is not quite clear what we would be voting on here. All those fears that relate to nepotism, getting things done by knowing things, etc., unfortunately still occur. This law does not protect against this in any way. Well, of course, we're also dealing with an amendment to the conscience clause. After hearing Senator Jackowski's voice, I must say there is a misunderstanding here. The doctor in his job must take into account the patient's right to information. Of course, it all comes down to abortion. This example is still being given Let's not run away from him because he really is the most drastic However, this applies to other procedures, of course. Anyway, it's not as easy as you'd like to introduce yourself. Getting to the point where it's decided whether or not to abort a pregnancy is a process. Studies, which are one at a time, different procedures and information, do not necessarily lead to this decision. It's just that knowledge is needed here. If it is not easy to access this knowledge, to information, if there is no indication of someone who can further conduct the diagnostic process, only after the first suspicion the doctor will use a conscience clause and will not guide the patient where she should go to further diagnose herself... She can then make the wrong decision about abortion. This is how it ends, because she's gonna find out from one doctor that... the patient's gonna think that if the doctor doesn't want to continue with this diagnosis, then apparently it's already such a disease, the danger that this pregnancy has to stop. And then whether it's an abortion underground or going abroad, and so on... the patient, going to these places, isn't going to go there to diagnose himself to find out what really is the state of this fetus, this developing baby, just to have an abortion. We can lead to such situations completely unintentionally, and with other intentions, I pay close attention to this. The doctor cannot be guided by his views, i.e., I do not know racial, political, skin color, faith, or unconfessed. It's about the patient's well-being, his right to information. The doctor can't usurp more powers than he actually has. It must not feel like the Lord God who decides for the patient to inform him or not, depending on his views. The Constitutional Tribunal has put a barrier here, it must be recognised, although in my opinion it is It's a bit of a violation of this right to information for patients... But that's what happened. And we shouldn't go any further, we shouldn't deprive patients of information. Transferring this to the hotline, as I pointed out in my earlier question, is very vague. On the helpline they will not really know which doctor, which health care facility deals with this or any other medical problem, because what is in statistics is considered... Let's stick with this abortion, let's say, although this example is given over and over again. Abortion can be carried out for various reasons, including those strictly necessary. Some hospital's gonna have an abortion like this, and it's gonna be in a report the helpline's gonna use... But for other reasons this abortion will not be performed, because the clause of conscience will be used. So that's the wrong argument. The argument that the director of a hospital or clinic is not supposed to know about this procedure is also unheard of, because since a very large knowledge is required from the director of a hospital, from the head of a clinic on various subjects... The scale of this knowledge is enormous. Number of reports, amount of information to be provided to the NFZ required... Even the on-call doctor needs to know what to do with the patient if there is no room. He needs to know where these places are, he needs to know where to send the patient. So that everyone is required to know, and then suddenly in this case one, this clause of conscience, we say that the director should not give this information that he may not have knowledge, so let him not give... I think that's the argument that's a little invented in this whole health care system that we have. Finally, I will join those voices that said that this bill... The work on it lasted 2 years, we finish it during the outbreak of coronavirus, at a time which should remodel our approach to health protection in Poland at all. I don't think that's in this bill. It was actually created for two years, it was written as a result of various compromises, which were justified a year ago or six months ago. But if we don't learn from this epidemic, that health protection should, however, be given full priority. And I don't think that's in this bill. This will mean that we will not be prepared for other challenges that may come to us soon. And this is going to be a really difficult situation. Thank you very much. I am in favour of adopting this law, however, with the amendments that were adopted at the Health Committee meeting. Although the numerous amendments I tabled were intended to improve the fate of young doctors, e.g. reduce the fee for exams or equalise the chances of resident doctors and doctors who specialize in out-of-residence procedures, unfortunately they were not adopted at the committee meeting. But these solutions, which are, prevail over this page to vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator, in correction mode. Is there a formal conclusion, Senator? In corrigendum mode, because the senator... There's no correction... There's a possibility... But, Senator, let me know. The senator didn't say anything about it. You didn't speak at all in the discussion. The senator was present 10 minutes ago when the list of speakers was closed. And the list of speakers is closed... But I'm in correction mode because my name has been used. And in corrigendum mode... But you can't speak in mode... You weren't involved... Mr. Senator, the senator didn't speak in the discussion. You don't have the right to ad vocem here. I'm sorry, I have a different opinion, because I have the right to speak in correction mode. My name has been used. Senator Necessary appealed. So don't manipulate the proceedings, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'm not manipulating you. We closed the list. You're manipulating. If you want one sentence in correction mode, go ahead. And the list is closed, and the discussion is over.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u97	I always have the right to speak in correction mode after closing the list. And let's stick to that. Let's not falsify the Senate's Rules of Procedure. Mr. Senator, ad rem. And now I'm going through ad rem. I would like to correct, because Senator Necessary, Senator Wojciech Necessary, I don't think he understood the intentions of my speech. He referred to my statements on medical confidentiality, which means the right to a clause of conscience. And I would like to point out that the only definition of a child, which is in Polish law, is the one in the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child in which it is clearly said that the child is from conception to the age of 18. Therefore, your argument is illogical, and this is not the situation of abortion, because... by motivating it with the good of the patient, we must also remember. And that's the huge dilemma that comes up in front of the doctor. It is about the right of a child to live, about the fact that we are dealing with a separate human being. And so... This should be taken into account in the construction of the conscience clause. Because it's not just about one person, but it's about two people. As a result of these actions, one of these people is losing life, the greatest good that can be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u98	Thank you very much. The list has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed, Senator Benjamin Godyla, Senator Bubbles and Senator Gromko made their speeches in the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Beat Małecka-Libera. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Is the representative of the government, the Minister, willing to comment on the proposal? Thank you very much, senators. Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I also inform you that the vote will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm ordering an hour and a half off until 4:30. Now the announcements will be made. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to listen to these messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u99	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, the meeting of the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the examination of the proposals submitted at the 12th Senate meeting for a draft resolution on the importance of European education will take place 5 minutes after the announcement of a break in the session in room 217. On the other hand, the meeting of the Health Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors, Dentist and some other laws Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u100	Thank you very much. At 4:30 p.m., after the session is resumed, the vote will take place. [[Break from 14 minutes 54 to 16 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u101	Please take your seats. Dear Senators, I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 1 and 2 July 2020. The order of business of this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. Ladies and gentlemen, before joining a very large voting block, we will hold a test vote to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please, right now... We need to take a five-minute break. The system's crashed. Ooh... Well, well, well, well, well. I got a signal that the system hung up for a while, so that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay, then you reset the unit, and if you don't mind, I'll be reading the formulas so I don't waste any time. Now we don't vote, we'll get back to the subject. We have a whole package of votes with a lot of amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, if the senators allow me not to read all the amendments, but their numbers, then we will vote in this way. If I do not hear an objection, I will find that the House agrees to such a vote. I remind the senators in the remote vote that first, in a moment's time, once the system is back up to efficiency, we will hold a test vote. At the same time, I would like to remind you that in order to vote effectively, you should first click "OK" to confirm your vote and then press twice the "Transmit" or "Submit" button, depending on your iPad, after answering your question for confirmation. And that's what we're gonna do in a minute when you give me a signal when we can start. Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the system has been reset and repaired. So that at the moment we proceed with the test vote, which aims to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please press any button to confirm presence. Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted. And so many took part in this vote. [[Voting No 2]] We therefore proceed with the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: the election of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The proposal of the Senate Marshal on this matter is contained in print No 145. I would also like to inform you that the proposal to elect Marshals Maria Koc as Chair of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation has been welcomed by the Senior Convention. I ask Senator Wojciech Piecha to speak and present the candidacy of Marshal Maria Koc as chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Maria Blanket... Louder! ...is a graduate of ethnography and cultural anthropology of the Historical Faculty of the University of Warsaw. She was professionally associated with the Hungarian Cultural Centre and later with the Sokołowski Cultural Centre. In the general elections in November 2006, she obtained the mandate of the City Councilwoman of Hungary on behalf of the Election Committee of Hungary's Friendly Elections. A little louder... In September 2014, she obtained the mandate of the Senator of the 8th term of office on behalf of Law and Justice. She was also in the 9th senate and is currently senator of the 10th term. In her previous term, she was Vice-Marshal of the Senate. She became known as a person who had the authority to direct the National Economy and Innovation Commission. We are calling for Senator Maria Koc to be the chairman of this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u103	Thank you very much. By the way, I'm gonna ask the technicians to increase the volume of the speeches in room 217. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? If not, we are voting on the election of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] Bravo! [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I beg you, Senator, the marshal, please approach the table. I'd like to give you a resolution on this choice. [[The Marshal hands over a resolution]] [[Applause]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. We are returning to the first item on the agenda: the EU type-approval system law and the market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution requesting amendments; Senate printing No 135 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour of Amendment One? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] Who's in favour of Amendment Two? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the EU type-approval system law and the market surveillance of internal combustion engines intended for non-road mobile machinery. We are returning to the second agenda: the Solidarity Supplement Act granted to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance took place during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 143 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy met at a meeting this morning. All 9 amendments were recommended, with a positive opinion. The first amendment harmonises the provisions of the Act under consideration with those of the Employment Promotion Act and the Employment Market Institutions. Amendments 2, 4 and 5 are legislative in nature. Amendments 6, 7 and 8 increase unemployment benefit to PLN 1 000 500. Amendment 3 raises this benefit from the initial amount of PLN 1 thousand 400 by PLN 100, i.e. to PLN 1 thousand 500. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u105	Thank you very much, senator. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Who's in favour of Amendment One? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Who's in favour of Amendment 2? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Who's in favour of Amendment 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 47 against. [[Voting No 9]] Who's in favour of Amendment 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 46 against. [[Voting No 10]] Who's in favour of Amendment 5? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 47 against. [[Voting No 11]] Attention, amendments 6, 7, 8 and 9 must be voted on together. Who's in favor of these amendments? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 47 against. [[Voting No 12]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? It's not working. It's not burning... it's working. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the act on the solidarity allowance granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. [[Talking in the O.R.]] One minute for your breath. Senator Swede voting remotely reports a technical problem. We're gonna get this straightened out. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We have an explanation, but not quite satisfactory. Senator Swede. He'll either vote on the phone, or he'll try to break through... We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Law on the granting of State aid for rescuing or restructuring entrepreneurs. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments; Senate printing No 132 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have your attention, please, because we are voting. Amendments 1, 2, 4, 5, 7, 9 If I don't hear any objections, we'll have a vote like this. That's the committee's recommendation. As I see no objection, we are voting on these amendments together. Who's in favour? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Back to the amendments voted out one at a time. Amendment 6. Who's... number three, excuse me, number three. Amendments 3, 44 and 45. They should also be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 20. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 21. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Attention, amendments 22, 31 and 43 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yeah, we dig, we dig, we dig, we dig, we dig, we dig, we dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, dig, Attention, amendments 33 and 38 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Attention, amendments 35, 39 should also be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on State Aid for the Rescue or Restructuring of Entrepreneurs. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Public Finance Act. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 137 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Public Finance Act. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on compulsory insurance, Insurance Guarantee Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Act on insurance and reinsurance activities. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 130 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Compulsory Insurance, Insurance Fund and the Polish Office of Communication Insurances and the Act on Insurance and Insurance Activities. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on Goods and Services Tax, the Act on Exchange of Tax Information with Other Countries and some other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 131 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Goods and Services Tax Act, the Tax Exchange Act with other countries and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Self-Government and Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the time of the discussion and prepared a joint report on the matter; it is in print No 134 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform you that, yesterday, at the joint meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, we have again taken up the subject of proposals concerning the Act amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy. These were proposals on the one hand, on the other hand, and legislative proposals, which were also made during the deliberations of the Committee on Local Government and the Committee on Infrastructure. I would like to inform you that, once these proposals have been re-examined, the local government and infrastructure committees recommend adopting these proposals and adopting the proposed resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the Senator or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I inform you that the committee's rapporteurs were Senator Marek Komorowski and Senator Ryszard Świlski. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 94 in favour, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Who's in favour of Amendment 2? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Someone who's voting remotely maybe push it, or we'll be waiting 20. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 29]] Who is in favour of Amendment 3? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Attention, amendments 5 and 7 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the above, we are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on the Principles of Development Policy and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Chemical Substances Act and its mixtures and some other laws. The Health Commission presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 136 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 votes against, 47 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] I would like to point out that this was an amendment proposed by Minister Józef Szczurek-Żelazko. Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes against, 46 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 36]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Law on Chemical Substances and their mixtures and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 133 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u108	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! May I introduce... You're welcome. Thank you very much. On 18 June 2020, a meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the plenary session, at which the committee examined the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and certain other laws. The Commission shall present the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate shall accept the conclusions set out in points 1 and 6, 8 and 24. At the same time, the committee shall inform that on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate withdrew the conclusions set out These are legislative amendments concerning the deadline for the law. We agreed here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. Would Senator Beata Małecka-Libera like to speak again? Thank you very much. I would remind you that the committee withdrew the conclusions set out in paragraphs 7 and 23 in print No 133 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? Thank you. We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1 and 15 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against. [[Voting No 38]] Attention, amendments 2 and 9 should also be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted against, 97 against, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 39]] Attention, amendments 3, 18 and 20 should also be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 93 for, 5 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 40]] Amendments 4 and 21 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 55 votes against, 39 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 votes against, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] Let me remind you that Amendments 7 and 23 are withdrawn. Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 10. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 votes against, 3 against and 43 abstentions. [[Voting No 45]] Attention, amendments 11 and 12 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 votes against, 7 against, 39 abstentions. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 50 for, 48 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] Attention, amendments 14 and 17 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 56 votes against, 38 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 16. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 votes against, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted against, 97 against, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 50]] N.B.: Amendments 22 and 24 should be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 96 votes against, 1 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Skurkiewicz forgot to press. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, two Senators abstained. [[Voting No 52]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on the development of the ground communities and the law on the consolidation and exchange of land. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. The third reading only includes voting. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print No 77 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 53]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the development of the ground communities and the law on the integration and exchange of land and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the current Senate meeting. It is in print No 79 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The committees met four times in joint meetings, examined the draft law and amended it. They ask for the Senate to adopt a uniform bill amending the law on criminal proceedings and the law on local government and a draft resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u111	Does Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, as the applicant, still want to speak? No, thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the amendment, print 79 X, and then on the adoption of the draft, print 79 S, in full, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on this amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 54]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of the bill to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 46 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 55]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on criminal proceedings and the law on local government and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on aid for bank loans granted to provide liquidity to operators affected by the effects of COVID-19. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 142 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration, I present a report on the work of our committees on the Act on Bank Credit Payments to provide liquidity to entrepreneurs affected by the effects of COVID-19. We ask the High Senate to accept the requests contained in points 1 to 9, 11 to 14, 16 to 23, 26 to 41, 44, 53 to 80, 82 to 87, 91, 92, 94, 96 to 108, 110, 112, 114 to 119, 121, 122, 125 to 128, 130, 132, 134 to 139 and 141 to 155. In addition, I inform you that on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. The following applicants have amended their applications These are senators: Bury, Jazłowiecka, Godyla, Dunin, Frankiewicz, Bober, Necessary, Świlski, Gorgon-Komor, Gromek, Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Bierecki. This concerns one point in the table of proposals, amendment 97. In addition, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on Local Government and Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have amended paragraph 87 of the table of proposals. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. Senator Kazimierz Klein, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and Senator Kazimierz Klein have withdrawn their applications. This time it is about Amendment 129. At the same time, the joint committees ask that the legislative and clarification amendments be voted together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present a proposal supported by a minority of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Our proposal concerns Amendment 81. We believe that, especially in this difficult time, micro-entrepreneurs and medium-sized entrepreneurs should be able to sell alcoholic beverages online. I cordially ask those of you who enthusiastically accept what I am saying here to express this enthusiasm also in the vote. The amendment, of course, concerns the sale of alcohol with a concentration of not more than 18%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u115	Sales so-called lighter alcohols. Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committees, Senator Krzysztof Mroz, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u116	Our proposal covered all the amendments that excluded from the current law from the revision of criminal codes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u117	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senator rapporteur want to speak yet? Mr. Senator Klein. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my report, I made a call for a joint vote on technical and legislative amendments. It'd be good if I swapped them now. This is also the suggestion of legislators.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u119	I'll take them, Mr. Senator. I'll trade them. Every single one will be replaced. Senators Kazimierz Kleina, Grzegorz Bierecki, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Tadeusz Kopeć, Adam Szejnfeld, Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Jan Filip Libicki, Ryszard Bober, Janusz Gromek, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Jacek Bury, Danuta Jazłowiecka, Benjamin Godyla, Artur Dunin, Wojciech Nebula, Ryszard Świlski, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska also submitted their conclusions during the discussion. In addition, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki was the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee. I would remind you that the Senators Kazimierz Klein and Grzegorz Bierecki have withdrawn their applications from print number 142 Z, and Senator Kleina Point 129 of print No 142 Z. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? No. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Let me read it now. We will be voting on amendments with a block: from 1.1.5, 7, 8, 13, 18, 19, 21, 22, 26, 27, 30, 31, 35,37, 54.58, 60, 61, 65, 72, 73, 78, 85, 86, 92, 101,103, 105, 107, 116, 118, 127, 135, 137, 143, 145, 147 and 152. Who is in favour of these amendments? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 56]] Amendment 6, Senators Grzegorz Bierecki and Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 9, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 55 were in favour, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 11, the budget committee, the local government committee and the family committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 54 were in favour, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] Amendment 12, the same committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 were in favour, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 14, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 48 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 16, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted in favour, 51 against, 46 against, with 1 abstention. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 17, including 3 joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 were in favour, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 20, Senator Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 47 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 21, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Amendment 23. Are you sure? 21 already was. Amendment 21 was, I'm sorry. Amendment 23, including 3 joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 60 were in favour, 38 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 24 is an amendment by Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, This amendment has been ruled out, yes. Excuse me. Attention, amendments 28, 33 and 53 should be voted on together. These are amendments 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 86 votes against, 12 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 66]] Attention, amendments 29 and 34 should also be voted on together. These are amendments 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 96 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 67]] Attention, amendments 32 and 148 should also be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 53 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 68]] Amendments 38 and 136 should also be voted on together. These are the amendments of Senators Grzegorz Bierecki and Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 69]] Attention, amendments 39 and 134 should also be voted on together. These are the amendments of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes against, 47 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 40 is Senator Grzegorz Bierecki's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted in favour, 97 votes against and no one opposed and two senators abstained. [[Voting No 71]] Attention, amendments 41, 44, 141 and 142 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 45 against. [[Voting No 72]] Amendment 52 is amendment 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 9 votes against, 85 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 59, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 votes against, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 62 of Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 51 votes against, 48 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 63, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 51 votes against, 47 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 64, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 51 votes for, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 77]] Amendment 66, plus 3 joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 78]] Amendment 67, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 79]] Amendment 68, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 80]] Amendment 69, 3 Joint Committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 81]] Amendment 70, 3 Joint Committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There is no voting system in room 217. And the votes were cast. And the votes were cast... No. No, I'm gonna... We'll see about that. I've got two rooms and a remote... There are no results from room 217. Yes? So the vote on Amendment 70 is to be repeated, right? Good. Five minutes... the vote on Amendment 70 will be repeated due to the suspension of the system. We'll reboot the same system. Five minutes? Five minutes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 05 to 18 minutes 10]] I am extending the interval by another 10 minutes due to the need to replace the control computer. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 11 to 18 minutes 20]] Ladies and gentlemen, I regret, regret and regret that you will need another 20 minutes to restart this system and replace your computer. Maybe a little more... There you go, 6:45. The Minister speaks and has. Oh, come on. 6:45 p.m. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 20 to 18 minutes 46]] You're welcome to take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We would like to proceed with the vote. You're welcome. Let me remind you that we must vote again on Amendment 70, tabled by three joint committees. I hope we get to the end of the system. If not, we have plan B prepared, so that today we will finish this vote, only that it would take a little longer. But I hope that you knock on the door and everything will be okay. We vote, remind you, on Amendment 70. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I see the system's working. Well, one person from the remote... Now. Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] Note: Amendments 71, 126 and 144, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, must be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 83]] Amendment 74, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 51 votes against, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 84]] Amendment 75, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 51 votes against, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 85]] Amendment 76, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 51 votes against, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 86]] Attention, on Amendments 77 and 151, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, must be voted jointly. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 51 votes against, 46 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 87]] Amendment 79, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 for, 1 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 88]] Amendment 80, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 81 now... Now... Remember, gentlemen, that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Now there's Amendment 80, Mr. Senator. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Okay... The senator is vigilant. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 89]] Famous Amendment 81... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...states of senators Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, Jan Filip Libicki, Ryszard Bober, Janusz Gromek, Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 32 votes against, 55 against and 8 abstentions. [[Voting No 90]] You see... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Amendment 82, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Sekuła. I don't know if... Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted in favour, 51 against, 46 against. [[Voting No 91]] Amendment 83, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. We have to wait, because one person voted remotely... 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 92]] Amendment 84, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 93]] Amendment 87 is amendment 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted in favour, 95 votes against and no one against and one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 94]] Amendment 91. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Who called it in? Joint committees. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 95]] Amendment 93 is the amendment by Senator Moravian-Stanecka. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, twelve votes, 84 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 96]] Amendment 94 is amendment 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 97]] Amendment 95, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, nine votes, 86 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 98]] Amendment 96, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 99]] Amendment 97 is an amendment of the pleno titulo of Senators Bury, Jazłowiecka, Godyla, Dunin, Frankiewicz, Bober, Necessary, Świlski, Gorgon-Komor, Gromka, Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Bierecki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 100]] Amendment 98 is an amendment of the same group of senators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? That's the one... No, Senator Bierecki. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Uh-huh. If the corrections are good, then... Please state the results of the vote. 97 Senators voted 51 and 45 against and 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 101]] Amendment 99 is an amendment by Senators Bierecki and Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 102]] Amendment 100, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 103]] Amendment 104, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 104]] Amendment 106, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 105]] Attention, amendments 108 and 155 must be voted on together. These are amendments 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. It's working, it's working. 96 senators voted, 93 for, 2 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 106]] Amendment 109, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, seven votes, 89 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 107]] Attention, amendments 110 and 149 must be voted together and the adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendment 111. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 108]] Amendment 112, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 109]] Amendment 113, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, eight votes, 87 against, two abstentions. [[Voting No 110]] Attention, on Amendments 114 and 153, senators Grzegorz Bierecki and Kazimierz Kleina, must be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 96 for, no one against, one abstention. [[Voting No 111]] Amendment 115, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senates voted, 52 were in favour, 45 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 112]] Amendment 117, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 113]] Attention, on amendments 119 and 154, by Senator Bierecki, must be voted jointly, and the adoption of these amendments excludes voting on amendments 120 and 133. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 94 were in favour, no one opposed, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 114]] Amendment 121, 3 of the joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 115]] Amendment 122, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 46 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 116]] Amendment 123, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted in favour, 47 against, 49 against, with 1 abstention. [[Voting No 117]] Amendment 124, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 49 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 118]] Amendment 125, senators Grzegorz Bierecki and Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 119]] Amendment 128, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 were in favour, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 120]] Amendment 130, 3 Joint Committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 121]] Amendment 131, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 15 for, 81 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 122]] Amendment 132, 3 Joint Committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 123]] Amendment 138, 3 Joint Committees. Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] We don't have the apparatus working... It's working. It's working. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 124]] Amendment 139, 3 Joint Committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 125]] Amendment 140, Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 50 for, 46 against. [[Voting No 126]] Amendment 146, joint committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 84 for, 13 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 127]] Amendment 150, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 49 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 128]] Note: we are voting on a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 Senators voted 91, 3 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 129]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on bank loan interest subsidies granted to ensure the liquidity of entrepreneurs affected by the effects of COVID-19. We are back to discussing item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the importance of European education. After a second reading, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Science, Education and Sport and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union and obliged these committees to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 84 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Marshal Michal Kaminski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The joint committees considered 5 amendments and a proposal to reject the draft resolution. The committees request amendments Nos 1 and 5 to be adopted are the amendments tabled by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski and recommend rejecting Amendments 2, 3 and 4. These are also the amendments tabled by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. And committees request the adoption of a single attached draft resolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? The candidates were Senators Rafał Śluszarz, Marek Martynowski, Jerzy Czerwiński, Jan Maria Jackowski and Alexander Szwed. Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of you senators like to ask such questions? No. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the draft resolution and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments, in the order of the provisions of the draft. After voting on the amendments tabled, we will proceed to the vote on the draft resolution in its entirety with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted, print No 84 S. We are voting on the senator's motion to reject the draft resolution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted in favour, 47 against, 49 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 130]] In view of the rejection of the motion to reject the draft resolution, we are voting on the amendments tabled by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 Senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 131]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 49 for, 49 against. [[Voting No 132]] The amendment didn't get the majority. Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 48 for, 50 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 133]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 48 for, 50 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 134]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 135]] We therefore proceed to vote on the draft resolution on the importance of European education in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 votes for, 45 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 136]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the importance of European education. [[Applause]] I would like to inform you that the agenda of the 12th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. I'm asking Senator Paul Arndt to make a statement. Mr. Marshal... May I have a moment of focus, gentlemen of the Senators, please? Gentlemen, the senators have important matters to discuss, I believe, Mr. Marshal. But they can do it somewhere else. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, but I would also like to interest your marshal and the Senate as a whole. The case concerns a former senator, a senator from 200 years ago, an outstanding Pole named Józef Wybicki, a Polish writer and politician, who went to the annals of history as the author of the words "Mazurk Dąbrowski." Józef Wybicki was a senator, voivode of the Duchy of Warsaw, and then the Kingdom of Poland. I think the Senate should lean on the problem that I want to talk about. One of the important places on the map of Wielkopolska is the manor-park team in Maniechki. It is located in the municipality of Brodnica, in the powiat Śrem. It is a town associated with Józef Wybicki, but also with General Jan Henryk Dąbrowski, the creator of Polish Legions in Italy. There it was built by Wybicki court, an example of a small rural residence, but unfortunately it burned down, shortly after the death of its owner. However, the original chapel from 1786 and the court park, which was built at the end of the 18th century, were preserved on the premises of this property. In 1894, the new village owners built a brick manor house that was preserved until modern times. In 1978, the Museum of Józef Wybicki was created at the initiative of the then director of the PGR Maniecka combinat in the mansion building, which was in operation until 2006. After that time, in connection with reprivatization activities, the court was in private hands. From the information I received from a group of socialists, lovers of local history, it appears that this property was put up for sale. Therefore, I ask the Minister of Culture and National Heritage to consider the purchase by the State Treasury of this court-park complex, which could be a museum dedicated to the memory of Józef Wybicki and gen. Jan Henryk Dąbrowski. It is finally a popularizing place... I hope that it could be an innovative way of spreading knowledge about one of our national symbols, the national anthem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u123	Thank you very much, Senator, for this precious initiative. The statement will be made by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address my first statement to the Prime Minister. It concerns the functioning of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether the Prime Minister is aware of what is happening in this institution and in an institution where the national fund has a holding, a controlling package not only, but also a majority one. Recently, under quite strange circumstances, the president of the National Environmental Fund resigned. The President announced a few days earlier that he would make changes to several priority programmes implemented by the National Fund and then resigned under unclear circumstances. I'd like to ask if you're interested in the Prime Minister. After all, you're a banker. The case concerning the Bank for Environmental Protection and whether the resignation of the President of the National Environmental Fund is linked to it. The National Fund has around 60% in the Bank for Environmental Protection shares, so it is an institution not only controlling its activities but also having a strong impact on what is happening in it. Recently, at least that's what the press reports. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, the FBI, reported that this small bank was involved in money laundering from Mexico. I did not notice that any actions were carried out within the BIA itself. Is the Prime Minister going to take an interest in this? There are other strange and demanding things going on in this bank. The Bank grants loans to companies that are in serious financial difficulties. One of these companies received a loan for several tens of millions of PLN. The only thing that distinguishes her is the fact that the president of this company is a former parliamentarians of the PiS. It was obvious from the beginning that this loan would not be repaid. We're talking about nearly 70 million zlotys, for this bank it's huge money. And I would like to know whether the bank is creating reserves and whether the Prime Minister intends to intervene in this matter. As I said, the president of the fund recently resigned and perhaps this is related to the situation of the BOSS. But there is something here that is quite characteristic of the PiS, and I would like to know if the Prime Minister knows about it and whether he accepts it. Mr D., son of Mr PiS, vice-president of the Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, became President. I understand that this is a certain standard and distinction of the PiS If someone is not a member of the PiS family, there is no chance of promotion in the institutions under the Prime Minister's authority. But I would like to know if the Prime Minister is aware of such practices. They are common in other places, but in NFOŚ it happened for the first time during the reign of the PiS. I would also like to ask about another company, which was founded in 2018 and which is called the Polish Wooden Houses. Also almost 100% its shares belong to the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The company has a budget at an annual level of about PLN 500 million and, as the name suggests, is dedicated to building wooden houses. Until now, however, she has not built any house, and it is unlikely that any house will be built in this term of office. But I'd like to know if there's any money. And what money was really put there from NFOŚ to carry out projects that really have nothing to do with environmental protection, and even harm environmental protection in this pure sense. And is the Prime Minister going to analyze the operation of this company? I ask you this, although I am aware that in the context of the housing program Apartment+ another wasted money may not surprise the head of government. I'd also like to ask... The Prime Minister often talks about the Clean Air programme, whose main contractor is the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. The programme was launched in 2018 and the programme provides for a budget of PLN 103 billion over a period of 10 years, which means that on average about PLN 10 billion should be spent annually for this programme to be implemented. There is 0 PLN in the state budget for this purpose over the years, including the 2020 budget. The money in NFOŚ is, but in total it is about PLN 2 billion, as I say: also with the money allocated from the budget of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management in 2020. I would therefore like to ask: how is this programme to be implemented? I would like the Prime Minister to answer all these questions. I'd also like to... Mr. Senator... I'm just finishing this part of the statement. I would like to ask what actions you intend to take regarding the situation in the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, in the Bank for Environmental Protection and in the Polish Wooden Houses company. Did you have any effect on the resignation of the P. W., until recently President of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management? Will you continue to allow nepotism in the state institutions that are subject to you? Mr. Marshal, this is one statement. If I could, I'd introduce the second one right away. Okay, here you go. I would like to refer the second statement to the Minister of Infrastructure. It's not the same rank anymore, though... Drivers often complain about signs on newly built national roads, express roads and motorways. I would like to use just one example, an example of the S6 road, which has recently been implemented and put into service in the Goleniów section of Koszalin. E.g. at the height of the city of Fences, at the knot, there is information that it should be pulled off this road to get to Koszalin. And it's really wrong information. Of course, you can get there by the old national road No. 6, but I don't think that's why you built a fast road to inform you about the need to exit to Koszalin a few dozen kilometers before Koszaline. It seems obvious that signs of this type should indicate that you can get somewhere and one way and the other. The same is true in another place, between Kolobrzeg and Koszalin. There are a whole range of coastal towns, where thousands of tourists reach each year, there are several knots, and there is no information that on the right node you can pull down and reach Mielna, Sarbinów or other coastal towns. But there is information about how to get to nice but small towns, which I assume few people reach. I ask the Minister to take action to correct this misinformation introduced by the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways. I only mentioned one example, but there are many more examples. I ask, however, that there be information on the signs about the arrival to places where there are definitely more Poles than to places that are located along the highway or highway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Your statement will be made by Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, my statement is addressed to the Minister of State Assets. Dear Minister, I would like to draw attention to the disturbing information with which my senator's office was asked regarding the situation of PKS Częstochowa. PKS Częstochowa is a company that for 71 years has been involved in transporting residents of the Częstochowa region and giving them employment. From the information I have, it appears that on June 30th this year. the company is to cease to function and drivers who do not currently receive even the full amount of their salary will remain unemployed. After the takeover of the rule of law and justice five years ago, staff changes were made as president of the PKS. According to the employees of PKS Częstochowa, that is when the destruction of the company began. A number of adverse decisions have been taken, e.g. Bringing to rolling stock old bus serviced. Another important, incomprehensible and unfavourable decision for the company was the start-up of non-profitable connections, which resulted in losses of up to PLN 100 or PLN 200 000 per month. And the connections with the municipalities of the Częstochowa subregion, which so far benefited, were consistently eliminated. According to PKS employees, this was a targeted action to gradually weaken the company's condition, which would result in its bankruptcy and the sale of several tens of millions of PLN of land on which the railway station is located. PKS drivers reported that in the difficult situation of the company they tried to contact government representatives, but their attempts were unsuccessful. According to PKS drivers, currently only dozens of drivers are employed in the company, and 5 years ago there were almost 300. By understanding the difficult situation of drivers by the city authorities Częstochowa many of them found employment in MPK in Częstochowa. However, it will be difficult for other drivers to find work due to the current crisis caused by the coronavirus. Currently, PKS Częstochowa is in liquidation. Drivers have employment Only until June 30th. The future of the train station itself at 45 Liberty Avenue is unknown. I would therefore like to ask the following questions. How frequent, starting from 2015, were the changes in the Management Boards of PKS Częstochowa? Why did the Management Board of PKS Częstochowa decide to initiate further unprofitable connections and at the same time consistently eliminate connections with the municipalities of the Częstochowa subregion, which benefited the company, thus depriving the company of influence and people's ability to use the connections? Why wasn't the money used to restructure the company, even though the sale of PKS' real estate was tendered? Was the fact that the PKP waived the signature of the tender agreement due to the fact that the PKS had changed any provisions in the terms of the contract or disclosed additional facts after the end of the tendering procedure? If not, why did the PKP refrain from signing the tender agreement? What are the fates of the security paid by the PKP for the tendering procedure? What was the height of the deposit? What about the programme promised by Law and Justice to support regional transport, including support PKS Częstochowa. What support has PKS Częstochowa received from the government over the last three years? Is it true that PKS Częstochowa was supposed to carry out the program "Accommodation+', however, because of the failure on the part of PKS, the program cannot be implemented? What measures is the government planning to take to prevent the collapse and destruction of the sites belonging to the liquidated company PKS Częstochowa? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-18-senat-12-2.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 12th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 12th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 19 minutes 39]]
