ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - at 3 p.m. 10.30, - to Energy, Climate and State Assets at 3 p.m. 11, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - at 3 p.m. 13, - Public Finance - at 3 p.m. 15, - National Defense at 3 p.m. 16, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - at 3 p.m. 17, - to the Secret Service at about an hour. 18. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u2	Thank you. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: the draft resolution presented by the Bureau of the Sejm on the celebration of the 50th anniversary of December 70 (print No 832). I ask you, Members, to stand. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] The resolution of the Polish Sejm on the celebration of the 50th anniversary of December 70. 50 years ago, some of the bloodiest events in contemporary history of Poland took place on the Coast. The direct cause of social protests was the rise in food prices announced before Christmas. On 14 December, a strike began in Gdańsk Shipyard. Lenin, then in other workplaces in Gdańsk. The protest was joined by the Yard's employees. Parish commune in Gdynia, Shipyard im. Adolf Warskiego in Szczecin, Zamech in Elbląg and many other bets on the Coast. Several other cities were also protested, among others. in Białystok, Kraków or Wałbrzych. The opposition to price increases and to communist power took the form of occupation strikes, rallies and street demonstrations under the seat of party committees. Protestants and strikers demanded to withdraw price increases, raise wages, improve working conditions and release of arrested colleagues. Instead of talking and searching for an agreement, the authorities of the Polish People's Republic decided to solve the force by sending troops and militia to the streets. According to official data, 45 people were killed during the events of December, over 1100 were injured, and over 3,000 were injured. Arrested. A lot of people lost their jobs. In the memory of Poles, it was especially stuck in the memory of the Gdynia Black Thursday when fire was opened to the shipbuilders going to work in the morning. A tragic symbol of that day, but also the whole of December 70, became a march following the body of the 18-year-old Zbigniew Godlewski, known in the December transmission as Janek Wiśniewski, carried on the door. The memory of the tragic events of December 70 and the desire to commemorate his victims became an important element of the identity of the people of the Coast, and in Gdańsk they contributed to the birth of democratic opposition, i.e. Free Trade Unions of the Coast and the Youth Movement of Poland. On the 50th anniversary of December events, the Polish Parliament pays tribute to all those who protest and oppose the so-called. folk power, sacrificed their lives, put their health and professional career at risk, as well as those who stored and passed on the memory of December 70. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland believes that December was one of the stages of the Polish road leading to August 80 and Poland regaining independence and freedom in 1989. Please accept this resolution by acclamation. [[Long-term applause]] Hello and praise the heroes! Thank you very much, Members. Thank you very much. I state that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 50th anniversary of December of 70th. We have formal requests. With a formal proposal from Barbara Nowacka, the Civic Coalition. One minute. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Sejm cannot be silent or blind and deaf to things that happen in Poland. If we look at what the Polish street looks like today, Polish security... They look very good, relaxed... We know that the vice-president for security matters deals with the security of one person in the country, his own. But it's already been done. On December 13, over 80 police cars protect his apartment, when a few days earlier police break three times the hand of a 19-year-old girl, they persecute young protesters. Because of your actions. Mrs. Marshal! We demand a break, a convening of the Senior Convention and an immediate briefing by the Deputy Prime Minister on security issues on the cost and relevance of police action in recent months against women's protests, citizens and citizens for freedom, democracy and human rights. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u4	Thank you, Member. Of course, I'm not calling the Senior Convention. You filed a formal request for a recess. We will vote on this motion. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote... Would you mind if I asked the marshal to ask your colleagues not to shout when someone is speaking? Thank you. You can't listen to that. Then leave. I ask all Members to remain calm. It's not worth being so nervous, it's really not worth it. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 426 Members voted. 197 - for, 223 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. Another formal proposal, Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome. Mr President, I wanted to ask if this would be a request for a break. No. Yes? Well, I'm curious about what it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u5	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the article. 184 I am asking, not for a break at this time, but for adjournment of the sitting by noon. 15 [[Joy in the Chamber]] to convene the Seniors Convention and to complete the agenda by informing the President of the Council of Ministers of the criteria for granting local government support from the Local Investment Fund. Over PLN 4 billion have been divided in such a way that local government officials are still appalled. To the fact that everything is done here without any mode, we've already gotten used to it, but the local government is waiting for them to have information on what criteria these measures were divided on, whether based on their affiliation to the Law and Justice, or based on the real needs of the inhabitants. Because you wanted to punish the local government, and you punished the inhabitants of all Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] regardless of the voivodship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You're lying!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u6	Thank you, sir. Mr President, do you know who is competent to convene the Senior Convention in accordance with the Rules of Procedure? You know? Marshal... Marshal of the Seym. I'm not calling the Seniors Convention because it was called. The Bureau meeting was held. I don't have any... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, I won't, sir. But the motion is for a continuance. But you filed a motion for a continuance... The motion is for adjournment. There you go, there you go. A formal request was made for the adjournment of the sitting. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adjourning the sitting will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 201 - for, 227 - against, 5 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft budget law for 2021 (prints Nos 640 and 785). I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u7	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On 30 September, the Government of the Republic of Poland submitted a draft budget law to the Sejm for 2021. The first reading of the project took place on 7 October and the project was sent to the Committee on Public Finances to submit a report by 2 December. The Committee on Public Finance has examined the draft in accordance with the timetable adopted by the Sejm Bureau and the result of this work is a report presented in print No 785. The Committee on Public Finances on the draft budget took place from 27 October to 27 November. The Committee on Public Finances at its meetings considered its own budgetary parts, and also considered the views of the other Sejm committees within the scope set by the Marshal of the Sejm. During the meetings of the Committee on Public Finances, opinions were presented from representatives of other committees and correspondents on behalf of the Committee on Public Finance on the sections of the budget under consideration. There was also a discussion, although not in all the budgetary parts. Questions were asked, government representatives and budget managers answered. Members also received the opinion of the Sejm Analysis Office. During committee meetings, Members presented the most important information from discussions at meetings of other committees, as well as a number of specific questions concerning, among others. the planned budgets of certain entities enjoying high budgetary autonomy, such as the President's Office, the Sejm and Senate Office, the Ombudsman's Office and the Supreme Audit Chamber. Members were particularly interested, among others. issues relating to the macroeconomic assumptions of the budget, deficit, public debt or the effectiveness of the tax administration, employment and level of remuneration in individual administrative units, including the financing of universities, culture, social care, historic care. The implementation of the programmes was also discussed, among others. Clean air under the National Environmental Fund and on the amount of resources allocated to the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. The debate was also generated by the revenue of local government units, subsidies, the effects of this subsidy and the effects of the potential loss of revenue. As regards the work of the other parliamentary committees to which the draft budget law was addressed, these committees submitted a total of 26 opinions to the Committee on Public Finance. These were positive opinions, only the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism presented two amendments and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights added two separate sentences. A total of 715 amendments were tabled to the draft budget law for 2021. I think that's a record quantity, if I remember correctly, during my time in the Sejm. 27 amendments related to the revenue of the State budget, 678 amendments related to the expenditure of the State budget. I'll tell you more about these amendments later. The sources of funding for expenditure indicated by the applicants include, inter alia, President's law firm, national defense, religious religion, national minorities, debt service, as well as special reserves. Seven amendments concerned annexes. And maybe a few words about the amendments tabled. As I said, 715 amendments were tabled. More than 200 amendments indicated as a source of funding part: National Defence. These amendments, if we had all voted, accepted them, would have depleted the part: National defence by PLN 70 billion only that in the whole part concerning national defence is PLN 51 billion. So you can imagine the nature of these amendments. I stress: almost 200 amendments. I'm already overlooking the fact that this would be the country's exposure to a complete loss of defence capabilities. Amendments concerning parts: The national defence consisted mainly of the Left. Another source of funding for amendments was the Institute of National Remembrance, over 100 amendments for a total amount of over PLN 3 billion. Let me just remind you that the whole IPN budget is 412 million. If we add this up, we might not be surprised yet, but even the Left itself has tabled (the bell) amendments for the amount of more than PLN 2 billion, the Civic Platform itself for the amount of approx. PLN 1 billion. So these are the adjustments. Even single Members, e.g. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska tabled an amendment concerning PLN 760 million. Source of funding: IPN, and there is only 412 million. So is CBA. 20 amendments were submitted to PLN 240 million, indicating such a source of funding, while there is 211 million. The President's office - also very generously reached there, amendments to PLN 610 million, but the entire President's office has a budget of PLN 205 million. Church Fund, favorite of the Left. 15 amendments were tabled, although they were quantitatively few, but for PLN 450 million, while the entire Church Fund has PLN 140 million. There were, of course, amendments where the funding was provided by the Treasury. I think it is worth noting that Krzysztof Paszyk himself has tabled more than 100 amendments of a smaller scale, but appreciates almost every municipality in his district. The Committee on Public Finance - I see that time is running out - has considered these amendments. Unfortunately, most of them, i.e. over 600, have been reported as minority amendments, so we will probably repeat the discussion and vote for several dozen hours. In conclusion, the Committee on Public Finance, after considering the draft budget law, as well as having received opinions on compliance with European Union law, requests the adoption of the attached draft budget law for 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u8	Thank you, sir. I think, Mr President, because I will allow myself to comment on what you said about combining these amounts, that maybe it is that the opposition did not trust for the first time that it simply... I think it's yours. ...you will not reject all the amendments, because maybe if you simply rejected only part, it would be such a situation that these amounts would be justified. So that I wouldn't laugh at it so much, but I would take it so calmly. Ladies and gentlemen, welcome. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear 15 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I cordially invite Mr Henryk Kowalczyk from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present this club's position on the budget. I invite you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I, of course, did not laugh at the amendments, but presented the facts of how these amendments were tabled. On the other hand, I am now privileged on behalf of the Law and Justice Club to begin, because my colleagues will continue to discuss the budget for 2021. The project has been prepared taking into account the difficult macroeconomic situation resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, which has spread rapidly around the world and has contributed to the emergence of economic crises on an unprecedented scale. The assumptions for the construction of this budget were adopted a few months ago, so before the second wave of pandemic. It was assumed that GDP would fall by 4.6% in 2020 , with a 4% increase of GDP in 2021 compared to 2020. In fact, it will be back to the 2019 level. Recent forecasts, including the European Commission's forecasts, assume a lower GDP drop for Poland in 2020, i.e. about 3.6% , and at the same time, because this year will be a reference to GDP growth in 2021, a lower growth in 2021, i.e. 3.3%, but this does not de facto change these assumptions, because we are really returning to GDP in 2019, i.e. 2021 should be like 2019. The fact that the current, what is worth noting, the assumed decline is probably smaller now, is the huge merit of the government, which has effectively helped entrepreneurs, which was particularly evident during the spring pandemic, very effectively protecting jobs. As economic growth will eventually develop in 2021, it is not fully known. It's hard to predict whether there's gonna be a third wave or if there's gonna be an end to the pandemic. It is also difficult to predict the reactions of other governments or other countries or businesses, especially our main trading partners, as this will also affect our trade, exports. When building the budget, the government also assumed that government and local government debt would rise to 61.9%. GDP in 2020 and up to around 64.1% GDP in 2021 On the other hand, according to the latest forecast drawn up by the European Commission and the current implementation figures, this debt can only be incurred this year, so it should be compared to these pessimistic assumptions, about 56% GDP, I say: just because 61.9% was predicted , and next year - about 57% GDP, i.e. it could be significantly lower, and hopefully so. It should be recognised that Polish public finances in this extremely difficult situation caused by the pandemic are very safe. In summary, it is worth noting that the draft budget for 2021 has been developed with the financial resources needed to continue the government's existing priorities for socio-economic policy tasks, including particularly active and ambitious social policy. Even if there are no plans to reduce this type of support in the 500+ range. So this budget provides funding for the basic functions of the state while increasing the deficit and debt, but on a very moderate scale, which is necessary in the fight against the pandemic. Such a prepared budget for 2021 definitely deserves to be adopted. Law and Justice, of course, will support it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's it? There will be other speeches. I thought there was nothing more to praise from the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u10	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to discuss two very important aspects of the budget: state security and investment and, above all, internal affairs, including issues of uniformed services, national defence. Thus, in heading 42, as regards uniformed services and voivodship budgets, section 85, the budget includes expenditure of over PLN 26 billion, almost PLN 27 billion, concerning the functioning of this area of state security. Of which, the main expenditure includes pensions, salaries and current expenditure - PLN 11.1 billion, property expenditure - PLN 385 million, mainly expenditure on formations such as: Central Police Investigation Office, Police Headquarters, Border Guard, State Protection Service, PSP Headquarters. In addition, the very important funds that complement the functioning of this sphere are the Public Security Modernisation Fund, the Police Support Fund, the Border Guard Support Fund and the State Fire Department Support Fund. Conclusion: expenditure of almost PLN 27 billion, as I said, within the state budget and part of the expenditure, almost PLN 3 billion, within the voivodeship budgets, ensures stable and progressive modernisation of security services, which enables the peaceful and normal functioning of the Polish state. The second very important part, which concerns our safety, is the national defence. In this part of the total expenditure amounts to almost PLN 52 billion. What is very important is 2.2% GDP, a factor that is linked to the very important implementation of our commitments to NATO, including the amount of PLN 15 billion, which accounts for more than 30% of all expenditure, is related to investment. The main part of this expenditure, of course, consists of derivatives and all components of the salaries of soldiers and officers - 12,3 billion PLN, purchases, repairs - 9.5 billion PLN, and other expenses - almost 7 billion PLN. Conclusion: 2,2% GDP, as I said, complements our assumptions and commitments towards NATO, as well as enables these purchases, which have already been made for years, as well as further modernisation of the Polish Army's weapons and equipment. The next issue is the subject of a quick discussion on road infrastructure. Next year we are assuming PLN 4.8 billion per national road, of course plus EU funds, this is the implementation of the programme foreseen for the period 2014 and 20203, which amounts to over PLN 225 billion. We hope that the envisaged process of modernising the state in this area will proceed. The programme is very well implemented and we hope to continue this next year. The amount of the Self-Government Road Fund, so well received by local authorities, amounts to almost PLN 6.4 billion next year. These measures are intended for local, district and municipal investments. This so expected and well implemented programme by local authorities in cooperation with the voivodships in the next year will also continue. The railway investment programme, a huge programme of modernization of Polish railways for the years 2014 to 202023 amounts to PLN 75.5 billion. Nearly PLN 2 billion is planned next year, plus, of course, resources from the special reserves, including EU funds. The programme goes perfectly, you can say: excellently, gaining momentum, and we think 2021 will be the next year of very big investments noticed on Polish railways. The following point concerns a specific but very important programme: Bridges for the regions. This is the programme that is starting, next year projects are planned above all, we assume expenditure of PLN 20 million. The programme assumes an amount of approx. PLN 3 billion for this task by 2028. Finally, matters concerning Polish Waters. This is a very important subject, which is often addressed in committees as well as in various other bodies. Very important, large investments are planned for the period 2021 to 2023 for almost PLN 9 billion, and PLN 3.8 billion is planned for 2021. First of all, it is about ordering water resources management, combating flooding, and therefore very important investments, which are fundamental for Poles in the coming years. And the last case, also very important for the interests of Poland, especially the northern one: the construction of a waterway connecting the Vistula Bay with the Gulf of Gdansk. We hope that the investment will end in 2022. The amount of PLN 2 billion is planned here, next year - the amount of PLN 700 million. It is a very important, huge investment that will change this scope, which in this part of Poland is very important. Ladies and gentlemen, in summary, investments, investments, investments and security - this is a huge part of our budget. I hope we can make this happen next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u12	Thank you very much. Are you Andrzej Noblekhta? There it is. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u13	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the most important budgetary tasks of the country is the financing of health protection of Poles. This imperative is particularly important during the pandemic. The vast majority of public health funds are spent by the National Health Fund, which planned revenues in 2021 of nearly PLN 105 billion, i.e. 5 billion more than in 2020. Part 46 of the budget includes health expenditure of PLN 11 842 million. This represents an increase of PLN 6600 million compared to this year. It results from public subsidies to the National Health Fund - more than PLN 2 billion, from funds to finance subsidies to medicines - nearly PLN 1 billion, transfer to the state budget of financing post-graduate traineeships and specialization of doctors - 2,3 billion PLN. This amount is planned to finance health policy programmes - an increase of PLN 357 million. By PLN 140 million, expenditure on financing investments in hospitals was increased and expenditure on the purchase of vaccines - by PLN 131 million, up to a total of PLN 405 million. In the structure of part 46 health care is the highest - PLN 9.8 billion. This is an increase of 52% compared to 2020. The special provisions secure health measures of almost PLN 5 billion, including PLN 4 billion for the Medical Fund. Total expenditure on health care accounts for 5.3% gross domestic product. An important section of the state budget is heading 855: Family. It includes state aid in the upbringing of children, family benefits, assistance to people entitled to child support, payment of welfare benefits, life support, support to the family and foster care system, care for the child up to the age of 3 years, the Large Family Charter, the government's good start programme and, above all, the provision of education under the "Family 500+" programme, which was planned for PLN 41 billion in 2021. A total of PLN 56.3 billion is planned for these social tasks, including over PLN 1400 million in special reserves. Family benefits, maintenance fund benefits and social security contributions are planned in the budget of nearly PLN 12.9 billion, i.e. over 551 million more than this year. 300 million PLN is planned for implementation of the Children's Care Act under the age of 3 years. I would like to point out that pension benefits will be valued at 103.84% in 2021. which gives the amount of PLN 9.6 billion. This will be a percentage-quota valorization with a guaranteed addition of 500 PLN. They are also planned for pensioners and 13th and 14th pensions. These benefits will be paid from the Solidarity Fund in the total amount of over PLN 23 billion. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An important part of the state budget for local governments is the general subsidy. The amount of these subsidies for 2021 was set at over PLN 70 billion, i.e. nearly 3.5 billion more than this year. The largest part of this grant is the educational part, which amounts to over PLN 52 billion and is more than PLN 2200 million in 2020. The remaining subsidies amount to PLN 18 billion and increase to more than 7%. I would like to point out that the Ministry has changed the global distribution algorithm. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For pupils in small schools, it is possible to increase subsidies as the P2 weighting has been increased from 0.1 to 0,15. This means that the grant for a student in such a school will increase from PLN 611 to PLN 917. As a result of the changes, an additional subsidy of over PLN 100 million will be calculated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u14	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mr Caesar Tomczyk, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As this government approaches your finances, you can see after today's debate, and not only because there are no Members on the side of the PiS, but also because the Minister of Finance is not with us. If you ask Poles today who the Minister of Finance is today, I have such a powerful impression that 99% Our citizens wouldn't know at all. The Minister of Finance is an unknown figure, although it has always been a unique role in the Polish country. Always the finance minister was someone. It was someone who cared about the interests of the state. Today it's someone who only cares about the interests of the PiS. I am directly addressing Poles and Poles following this debate in their homes, because this budget debate is one of the most important ones. The fate of every Polish company depends on the state of the country today, the state's finances depend on the fate of every employee today. Today we wanted to present the state of the Polish state in three acts and unfortunately it is a drama. Act one: people die. This government contributed to the death of tens of thousands of Poles and Poles. They always die. Only in November did 30,000 die. more people than in November ub.r. Only 10,000. people died of COVID, 20,000. These are deaths that could have been avoided. That's the result. not preparing health care for an epidemic, that's the result of lack of equipment, masks, oxygen, cavities, ventilators. In November, comparing year to year, most people in Poland died since World War II. Act two: companies die. Fatal epidemic management, chaotic decisions lead to the fall of companies, restaurants, bars, cinemas, theatres, gyms, single-person business activities. This government has ignored the epidemic. If it hadn't been for that, we could have avoided those sharpenings right now. The economy could already be opened up, as it is done in the south of Europe, when the economy returns to normal after Christmas, because the government did not ignore the epidemic. The truth is, as long as this government loses to the epidemic, Polish companies will lose to this government. And it must be made clear that these prolonged sharpenings are the fault of this government, which simply fails to cope with the epidemic. And finally act three: the economy is dying. This is a key act, and that is exactly what this debate, the budget debate for 2021, is about. Once again, the Polish government is doing something completely different than most of the European Union's countries. We all remember the 27:1. We're at exactly the same point again. While the whole of Europe has been saving for difficult moments like this, and now it helps its companies by placing thousands of euros in these companies, the PiS ball lasted in Poland. For Rydzyk PLN 250 million, for Polish Television, propaganda scumbag, PLN 2 billion, planes for power, please, PLN 2 billion without tender. A thousand limos instead of ambulances - who forbids the rich. The most expensive hospital in the world without patients at the National Stadium, 2 km away, everyone can see for themselves. And now it is exactly the same, under the cover of the epidemic, this government introduces new taxes for Poles and Poles, exactly 10 new taxes. I'll have the first slide. These are taxes that the PiS government serves today to Polish citizens. This is the government's answer to the fact that Polish companies are dying today. People protest all over Poland because they're just right. You are engaged in Polish companies, you are engaged in Polish economy and freedom. Prime Minister Morawiecki said that we are leaders in Europe. The leaders in raising taxes - that's for sure. I'll have another slide, please. It's not only that you're introducing 10 taxes, it's that you're raising the taxes that exist. You change their rates so that Poles have to pay more at a time when money is needed. Let's see, Belgium. Let's see what it's like in Europe. Belgium. Belgium reduces VAT on catering, food and soft drinks to 6%. What is the Polish government doing at the time? Here the Polish government introduces a sugar tax to make food more expensive, even more expensive. Austria. Austria lowers VAT from 10% up to 5% for the catering, cultural and publishing sector. What is the response of the Polish government? Raise the radio-television subscription to this PiS-ownska scumbag. Ireland. Ireland reduces VAT on everything from 23% to 21%. The Polish government maintains increased VAT, which was supposed to reduce years ago. Because of you. Bulgaria. Bulgaria reduces VAT in restaurants and entertainment industries. What does the Polish government do? The Polish government introduces a trade tax. Germany. Germany reduces the main VAT rate from 19% to 16%. What does the Polish government do? Increases contributions to the Social Security Office. He's not brought in. This is an answer for Poles and Polish companies. Czech Republic. Czech Republic reduces PIT tax from 20% to 15%. What does the Polish government do? The Polish government introduces taxes on rain. Yeah, there's gonna be a new rain tax. Since when? And last but not least, the price issue. I'll have the last slide. Within 5 years, the PiS government has introduced about 35 new taxes and charges, now another 10. But that is not all, because apart from the fact that from the pockets of Polish citizens the Polish government wants to pull out additional billions of zlotys and destroy Polish entrepreneurs, today we have galloping prices in Poland. This is a graph that shows that inflation was the highest in Europe in October, the highest in the European Union. What's inflation? It's just the fact that money is less valuable and prices are rising. Prices in Poland increase on average 13 times faster than in the European Union. What is the second country in Europe when it comes to inflation, the second in order? Hungary. Indeed, we have some examples to follow. First people die, then companies die, and then the whole economy dies. And this is unfortunately our drama for which Prime Minister Morawiecki and this government are responsible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u16	Thank you very much. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Miracle money is a big deal, so when we talk about the state budget, which is taxpayers' money, we have to ask ourselves the key question: why is the government actually taking money from people? The answer seems simple. In order to provide citizens with good health protection, good education, safety, i.e. to make people's lives better, to live longer, to be better educated, to feel safe in the streets of Polish cities, so that our homeland is safe and has more friends than enemies around it. Various indicators were invented to show whether the government was achieving its goals. The problem with PiS and the PiS government is that they grow those indicators that should fall and the ones that should grow. The debt, over PLN 1.5 trillion, 8 Mr Kowalczyk, is growing in the country for 5 years ruled by the PiS. And you say it's safe. 600 billion of this is your doing. Prices are rising, taxes and taxes are rising, and even the VAT gap is rising. Look at the slide. She slept in 2016, 2017, still in 2018, i.e. when the mechanisms introduced by the PO-PSL government, which you continued, began to work. But what happened in 2019? It's been sealed. Look at the year 2020. Go back to that slide. Look at the year 2020. See how that VAT gap went up? I don't know, maybe you noticed that those VAT mobs were your mob, and you just stopped chasing them? You can't do that. What's it really like with what you've been saying for a long time, with the fact that you're gonna be funding social programs from VAT sealing? Here Members bragged: there will be 500+, there will be 13th, 14th pension, and Prime Minister Morawiecki said that all five Kaczyński will be financed by reducing the VAT gap. Another slide, please. That's what it looks like, my dears. For several years they sealed the VAT gap, it was about several billion zlotys. But what happened in 2020? Ten billion zlotys have escaped. Minister Kościński - because his name is a man who has been Minister of Finance of Poland for several months - withdrew 13 billion PLN from the budget for 2020 and 2021, because it turned out that there will not only be a seal, but there will be a sealing. That's minus 10 billion next year. That's how much he's gonna get out of your hands. And how much do you need for 500+ and 13 and 14 pensions? 61 billion PLN. So where do you get 50 billion zlotys? This slide in black and white shows that the bill for the promises of the PiS must pay Poles. What else is growing in a country ruled by the PiS? The doctor's rounds. But I'm not gonna show you the statistics because the PiS government told me to hide them. Today we don't know how long it takes to see an oncologist or cardiologist. Plus, people die before they see each other. Slide, please. President Cezary Tomczyk spoke about these additional deaths. This is an accusation not only of the Minister of Health, but also of the entire PiS government. Almost 50,000. more people died in 2020 than in 2019. Do we therefore have more money in the 2021 budget? No. He admitted it with great sincerity and pride, Mr Nobleman. He just told us that next year's health budget allocated 5.3% GDP. Mr. Speaker! How embarrassing are you? After all, we have a pandemic, and the PiS is walking the shameful path to 6%. GDP in 2024 You're acting like the health system isn't on the verge of being able, like nothing happened, like there's no pandemic. The Minister of Health tells some bullshit, the recovery plan announces. Of what? They didn't pay for it in the budget. They didn't pay for it. The Civic Coalition Club from this budget of yours is moving PLN 7 billion to health protection because we want to save the lives of Poles and Poles, because they are just threatened by you. I said what's supposed to grow is falling. What should the government spend its taxes on? For the length of our lives to grow. Meanwhile, she's falling. As early as 2017 and 2018 Poles lived less than 2 years before. The number of active people should also increase. This is our future, this is the development of the economy. Meanwhile, she's falling. The value of the Treasury companies should grow and it falls. Fortunately, trust in the government is also falling. But the most spectacular thing is how the PiS government devastated the labour market. I'll have the last slide. In this slide you can see that in the future year of the European Union, 295 thousand. people will leave the labour market, stop being active. How many of these people are the citizens of our beloved homeland? 233,000, i.e. 80% all people who stop working in Europe next year are Poles, and Poles are only 8% the population of the European Union. What you do to young Poles is a tragedy. I'm very happy that these young people understand. Those young people who have been protesting on the streets for many weeks are not only defending Polish women, they will chase you out of the ministries where you sit and think only about how to raise your wages, how to hire more colleagues or at best how to dig up Vistula Mierija. They're gonna chase you out of the ministry because they're smart because you failed to plan Marshal Terletsky to raise the next generation of young people to vote for the PiS. Everything that these young people have done is going to turn against you, and you will pay for it because you deserved it. But back to the money issue, I'm going to say this: for four years, the PiS was actually on the loose because it was downhill. Now it turns out a piece needs to be pulled uphill. Meanwhile, the tank is empty. It's easy for the PiS, they know where to put the money. They will take them out of the pockets of working Poles and Poles. Besides, the president of the bank Mateusz Morawiecki presented his concept of economic development many years ago. He told everyone straight out that people were supposed to work for a bowl of rice. In conclusion, I will ask: By taking so much money from taxes, contributions, danin and various fees, did the PiS government for these 5 years make Poles healthier? No. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do Poles live longer? No. Are they better educated? No. Well, maybe they feel safe on the streets of Polish cities? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, maybe we have more friends in the world. No. Well, I'm afraid not, either. It means that the PiS government has lost its moral right to rule Poland, and most societies know it. Only the PiS government does not know yet, but it will soon understand that every next day of the PiS government is a drama for Poland and that we will have to do so for many, many years. You're vermin, and it's really time to get out of here. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! You made a joke.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u18	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member, very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Wieczork, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! That's right, Minister, who's that the most important budget bill is being discussed, and we don't have your finance minister with us? I know he's a deputy, but I think respect for this House requires that today, in this most important debate, the Minister should be. I understand that the Prime Minister isn't here because he's fighting with Minister Ziobra, so he may not have time to deal with budget matters. [[Applause]] But the Minister should be with us after all. We have heard here from President Kowalczyk and representatives of the PiS that the most important issue in this budget is investment, investment and security. I have a question: Did you actually read print 640? 'Cause I feel like you've been reading some other print. We have pandemic time. This is a time of crisis, and it is known that in times of crisis we need wise decisions, wise power. We need decisions that will, in short, fight this crisis. Unfortunately, this draft budget shows that this is merely the emanation of the current rule of law and justice. It's an emanation. Government action in 2020 and, unfortunately, we have the impression as Left that this emanation will continue in 2021. It's a budget of chaos, stagnation and lack of vision of the state after the pandemic. Main assumptions: revenue - PLN 404 billion, expenditure - PLN 486 billion, deficit - PLN 82.3 billion. So the question is, is this a real deficit, or are you not hiding some real expenses again? Because we already have very serious experiences in this area. Perhaps today is the moment where it is worth looking Poles and Poles in the eye and telling them what the state's finances really are. It was already mentioned here that the debt amounts to PLN 1.5 trillion. The election's in three years. Let's talk honestly today about the fact that we have a problem with this, because today the worst truth is better than this combination and hiding, and telling ourselves from this speaker, among other things, that everything is fine and everything is ok. According to the Polish method of counting public debt of course we have the 51%, 52% But once we have applied the EU's methods of counting public debt, in this budget you are planning, it will be almost 65%. In this context, of course, despite all the disputes and the heated discussions here in this Chamber, it is good that Poland did not veto the budget of the European Union, did not veto the Fund for Reconstruction, because the truth is that we would have a problem at all with the construction of the budget for 2021. This budget will probably need to be revised because of these EU measures, of course, but this will be a very serious contribution to this budget and to saving the Polish economy. That is why, although the Minister of Finance does not exist, I bow to him because he was not afraid to say that he could not imagine the budget for 2021 without the resources of the European Union. Here from this speaker, the Prime Minister often said that the opposition has no idea how to act, how to function. So what I'm going to say is that the Left has and in a moment, in the second part, I'm going to present this idea, but I'm going to refer briefly to the philosophy of you creating a budget for 2021. The draft budget for 2021 assumes that we are returning to the 2019 growth path. Of course, we'd all be very happy. They wanted it to be so, but the question is: Is it going to be so, and sometimes are we not dealing with too much optimism here? Because GDP growth is projected to be 5.4%. , and taking into account inflation - 4.4%. Nomen omen, regarding inflation, raises a question to the Minister: How is it that inflation is projected to be 3.3% this year and inflation is supposed to be 1.8% in 2021 ? What are the factors to make inflation fall this year? Following a 10% drop in investment in 2020 You plan to increase them by 4%, but the truth is that this increase in investment will only happen because it will be military investment, because the real share of investment funds in this budget is about 7.3%. Another interesting issue with these assumptions is the question of the decline in consumption, which took place in 2020, by 2.6%. According to your forecasts, it will increase by 3.7%. in 2021, and the planned increase in consumption of our residents is 4.4%. And now the question is, how do you not plan to increase your salary, pay doctors, take the prize funds in uniform services, do not increase your teacher's salary, do not increase your salary in the budget, increase unemployment, and increase your consumption? I'll be honest with you, it's a very interesting approach, and I think someone deserves it. A Nobel in Economics for this type of calculation. What is the construction of this budget? Indeed, this construction results, firstly, in the reduction of CIT, but in the increase of VAT impact to 181 billion, in the increase of PIT impact to 89 billion, in the decrease of the revenue of the budget units. So the truth is, when it comes to your philosophy, all you do is just try to fool Poles. The logic of such construction of charges and transfers is not visible to the average Pole and the average taxpayer, who sees only this current monetary aid. Programs 500+, 13th retirement and other benefits - all this looks very nice in this propaganda, we're talking about helping that everything is okay. But if the Poles see the electricity bills, see the electricity bills, see the fuel bills, see the bills in the shops, then suddenly it turns out that what you're giving is just taking away. The PiS government gives and takes. And do you know what happens when someone gives and receives? It's going to hell. That's what we're following, because that's what your philosophy is. There was, of course, no fair debate on what ideas could be implemented in this difficult 2021, because we pointed out during committee meetings and the parliamentary debate that it would really be another year. It's going to be a year after the pandemic, and you can't treat it so much that nothing happened here that it's the same budget. The Left has proposed the creation of a Fund for the Reconstruction of the Economy. This is our idea of getting out of this crisis. The Fund for Reconstruction of the Economy as a special-purpose fund, a fund to respond quickly to what is happening, would, of course, be based on three main pillars, i.e. health, entrepreneurship and self-government. This is a very specific proposal that we wanted to work on together. This is a proposal which aims at one thing, namely, firstly, the provision of this fund through budget transfers, in the draft budget for 2021, of PLN 20 billion. And we pay attention to the main positions that this fund would create. This is above all a reduction of up to 2%. GDP of military and national defence expenditures. These. 0,2% this is the amount of nearly PLN 5 billion. Once again with the stubbornness of this case we will say: today we do not need tanks, cannons, airplanes, guns to fight against the coronavirus and fight for jobs. Today, it takes an army of people, an army of doctors, giant measures to help entrepreneurs first and foremost. In this context, as we are talking about health protection, there is a special reserve of nearly PLN 5 billion in the budget. There's nothing to keep these resources in the special reserve, you just have to run them today. In addition, there are issues concerning dividends, and there are additional issues concerning the liquidation of some funds that you have created in this privatisation fund of companies, because we see that politics is active today and we are beginning to understand all this why these funds are being created, why you want to raise 1.5 billion PLN there. Perhaps to buy more media companies, because that is today's State Treasury policy. President Kowalczyk spoke about this Church Fund, about the IPN. This is 20 items, of which 20 billion zlotys can actually be shifted and these funds can be spent on the creation of this fund. In addition, in this fund - and I would like to stress this once again - thanks to this decision that there is no veto, there will be a sum of PLN 103 billion from the European Union's Reconstruction Fund for the next three years. And, of course, this is the amount that, during the year after the positive decisions of Parliament, can fund this fund of approx. 42 billion zlotys, because if we spread these amounts for 3 years, our proposal is that for the first 2 years it will be the sum of 42 billion zlotys, and in the last year, 2023, that it will be the amount of 19 billion zlotys. And, as I mentioned, the manager of this fund will be the Minister of Development in agreement with the Minister of Health and Minister of Education, and the fund will fund primarily three basic pillars: health - we are planning about PLN 26 billion for 2021, entrepreneurship - the amount of PLN 18 billion and self-government - the amount of PLN 18 billion. And what is the concept that we are presenting here to the Polish government? Well, if we're talking about a pillar: health, then we're talking about the need for a reboot in health care. Today we know that county hospitals, voivodships, state hospitals are facing huge financial problems. We need to restock these hospitals after the pandemic, and we need to find the resources to get these hospitals started today. normal functioning, so such a restart of an investment in hospitals of PLN 16 billion is absolutely necessary. Another thing is to increase the expenditure on NFZ by PLN 10 billion. There's nothing to be afraid of. You don't want to give raises to doctors, you don't want to take care of health, and today, in a pandemic period, this is absolutely crucial. Another issue is the pillar: entrepreneurship - PLN 18 billion. Here we must realise one thing, that today these small and medium-sized enterprises are the key to ensuring that the Polish economy can function normally. We believe that on restart - I stress: restart - these small and medium-sized enterprises need to be allocated about PLN 10 billion. No businessman who has ceased or stopped his activity due to the pandemic will save 70% of today's aid. for current expenses, to pay the bills, because he has no way to get that 30%. Today, it is absolutely necessary to fund small and medium-sized enterprises so that they can work and work again. Therefore, these are the measures that are necessary for our companies to function normally. Finally, the pillar: self-government - PLN 18 billion - the pillar of local investment and the restart of local investment. We do not want policy here, we want to allocate PLN 12 billion to finance all investments in all local governments. We have to be honest: if local governments have their own investments today, we give you 50% , we add 50% to these investments Which will free you up in your budgets for other purposes and for normal functioning. And, of course, modern education. There's nothing to be afraid of, it just needs to be done. This objective is to protect jobs, 1 million jobs and 100,000 jobs. entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That should be the purpose of this budget. Therefore, unless this draft budget is amended in this way, the Polish left will not support such a budget. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u20	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u21	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! We have just heard from a representative of the United Rights, a representative of the Parliament's majority sitting in this Chamber, that the state budget for 2021 is the investment budget and the security budget. I think you've made a mistake because rationally looking at this budget, it has little and little investment and security in common. As far as investments are concerned, I thank you if investments in Poland are to look like the Central Communication Port, i.e. the national concreteing of hundreds of hectares without much sense, without a clear purpose. Well, unless you like President Kaczyński, but this is not how investments should be constructed and planned in Poland, which will absorb so much money. Now with regard to security, it has little in common with the security of the budget of the state, which persistently hides any public debt in our country. Not much to do with safety has a consistent underfunding of the health services. A year ago, before the election, you signed a health pact. This pact provided for a consistent increase in expenditure on Polish health care to 6,8% GDP. In the 2021 budget, expenditure on health care is 5.3%, and this is at a time when we really have the condition of this health service torn apart when this service needs to be financed in particular. That target has already escaped. Does security have anything to do with stopping the financing of 13 pensions? This is security. for those oldest in Polish society, for seniors? I think what we've been following for the last two years is being realized, which means that the 13th pension will be as long as the elections are ahead of us. There's no election, there's no 13th pension. But what's in the budget, and what's a very clumsy gesture towards those who've been waiting for this 13th pension? Yeah, consistent, generous support for Jack Kurski's TV. Security is also food security. What does the United Right through the budget tell Polish farmers? He tells Polish farmers that the level of funding will amount to ca. 47 billion. Today I will remind Polish farmers that the level of funding from the national funds of our agriculture in 2016, i.e. the last year, which was budgeted by the Polish People's Party, was almost 10 billion more. This is the support of Polish agriculture, especially in a time of great crisis, which affects them, because farmers are entrepreneurs too, and these are people who are affected by a serious crisis today. This, I think, convinced the leader of the country's political formation last Sunday, seeing from the window how grateful Polish farmers are today to the decisions that are made and announcements. I am referring here to the five against farmers, withdrawn fortunately, proposed by you. It's a matter of self-government. This is, in particular, extremely shocking when the state budget is observed. Because consistently for several years, and this budget also shows this, the state is limiting the revenue of local governments. Further burdens are imposed on the shoulders of local governments, and therefore there is no funding at all. And already the top of how you treat local governments was - this is what my clubmate Mr Stefan Krajewski was talking about today - the issue of dividing the support fund. I allow myself on behalf of the coalition club Poland to submit about 200 amendments, which were prepared by local governments throughout the country. 200 more? Not on behalf of the voivodships, mayors, elders or marshals of voivodships, but on behalf of the community, the community of these local communities, which is appalled by the fact that today the only criterion which central authority, representatives of the United Right, accept in the distribution of funds, is the criterion of party membership. This is a thing that has not happened in 30 years of the latest history of Poland. Such a criterion is shown today. This is a kind of self-government sting, a sting of those who have devoted their last years of their career to managing local affairs - this is the approach. These amendments are an expression of the dissatisfaction of local communities, local communities with this country's policy, which is being implemented today, but also their growing needs. Because these aren't the needs of local politicians. These are the needs of people who live in local Poland, municipal Poland and district Poland. Mr. Marshal! To conclude my speech, I would like to say that in this form the state budget does not give the opportunity for the Coalition of Poland to support it. These amendments, which I will put on your hands, are also a sort of expression of dissatisfaction with this policy implemented today by the majority of the Parliament in relation to local needs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u22	Thank you very much, sir. Oh, you've done a lot of shit. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u23	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The state budget in the part concerning the health system is poorly constructed, not only because of the amount of expenditure, but above all because of the priorities which the current ruling majority misdefined. As far as the amount is concerned, have you forgotten the amount of expenditure in relation to GDP that the State has promised to residents? Are they to protest again, to protest hunger, so that you may remember what promises the government has made? After all, it is not fair, gentlemen, to do so, especially to the young people who are the future of our country, the medics who are the heroes of our time. And given that you've exceeded more than 2% of your defenses, that means you're misconstruing the enemy in Poland today. Today, the enemy is an epidemic and a coronavirus, not an external enemy against whom we must arm ourselves. These priorities are wrong. What the Polish Coalition - PSL, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives is talking about is, above all, an increase in wages for all doctors, heroes of our time, heroes of this epidemic. You only want to give to those who are voivodship-led or discretionaryly, as Minister Niedzielski recently stated. Besides, an interesting discussion between us took place during the examination of the last information he presented for Prime Minister Morawiecki. He said that the labs who work at the COVID hospitals could also get these accessories. I checked it out and asked the labs from one of the hospitals in the Łódź voivodship how the situation was. And what does it turn out to be? The director of the hospital there requested an interpretation from the ministry and it turns out that such additions do not belong to these labs, even though they work in the COVID hospital because they do not perform PCR tests on COVID. And the fact that they're doing other tests on all these COVID patients doesn't matter anymore. And this is, I think, a scandal. That's why we insist that everyone in COVID hospitals, doctors, nurses, paramedics, lab workers, paramedics, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the room, technicians, all those who are at risk of infection get these kind of bonuses. Their money should be designated and the state budget should now be set for such a priority. You're neglecting the issue of specialization again. This should be an absolute priority in the state budget. If we don't get specialist personnel today, I don't know when we're gonna do it. Today is absolutely an opportunity to convince all those who want to spend money on other departments that here is an extremely important issue. The same applies to private health care, about which we, as the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party, say that we need to involve this department of our economy in the treatment of patients from whom the doors are closed in the public health system. You started doing this to COVID patients, let's do it to people who have other diseases. The same applies to vaccines. Today we must absolutely fight anti-vaccines. So let's tell everyone, especially parents who have young children, that all vaccines resulting from the vaccination calendar are free of charge, against all pneumococcals, other bacteria, viruses. After all, every parent knows that such a combo vaccine, used not to vaccinate a child several times, is really very expensive. Today, such initiatives need to be launched. We know that in this budget there will be no money to announce new competitions for the NFZ. And we know examples from all over the country, where among others. The hospice is waiting for new contracts. Not much, the hospice is waiting for a new valuation of benefits which have not been updated since 2014. The same is the many questions about the announcement of new competitions, e.g. The hospital in Opoczno has not been able to ask for the announcement of a gynecology and obstetrics competition for a long time. I would ask that such matters be raised in this budget. This is what our Polish Coalition Club is asking for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u24	Thank you, sir. I would like to ask Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland, which was the same as before. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u25	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! On behalf of our club, but also as a Member of the Lower Silesian Land, although my colleagues from the Kujawsko-Pomorskie District also asked me to make additional amendments, I would like to make amendments which precisely compensate for the loss of funds within the framework of very unfair, biased, extremely stubborn, which has never been in the history of the Republic of Poland, the separation of measures coordinated by the voivodeships recommended or in most policies of Law and Justice from the so-called. a fund of local initiatives. Among these measures, of course, there are a great deal of resources for very important road reconstructions, including the construction of bypasses, so loudly, so recently promised by the Prime Minister together with the Minister of Infrastructure and today completely forgotten. There are also investments in which these programs are implemented, which have been neglected by the Polish State or, in fact, by the PiS government skunked. These include, among others: exchange of gas furnaces in the municipality of Dzierżoniów or e.g. reconstruction of the building of the former primary school for kindergarten in the municipality of Szczytna. These proposals are in total over 30. I'd like to put on behalf of the club Mr. Marshal's hand the amendments we've made. We count on their positive consideration as compensation, as compensation by Parliament for this extreme - once again I would like to say - unfair, unjustified and previously unprecedented in the history of Polish policy of stubborn distribution of funds between local governments as a result of the division into those local governments, which are granted funds, i.e. local governments governed by the people of PiS or friends of the people of PiS, possibly dependent on the government of PiS-owski, and those municipalities which are governed by politicians not related to PiS, and those in local Poland are much, much more. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u26	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Bosak from the Wheel of the Posel Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The budget law and the budget are generally tables which the parties must agree on. We are analyzing them here, we are discussing them, and besides these tables, there is also something like the climate of the ongoing budget debate and the signals that go to the citizens. This climate is unfortunately unhappy and cannot be different. In recent days we have been told that one of the restaurants who renovated the historic facilities and conducted the respected activities in his city hung himself in his own newly renovated hall. Why? Because he lost hope. Many people in Poland are losing hope, even though the government will implement the budget next year, in the worst case by updating it. It's always like this. And why do people lose hope? Because they don't see any reasonableness in what the government is doing, and they see that the government's recipe for crisis is tightening the tax screw. This was mentioned by my previous speakers, and I will repeat: the introduction of new taxes in times of crisis is an economic suicide. It is an expression of the desperation of this government, which shows that there is no other idea of budget shortcoming than taking money under ever-new titles. As far as these tables are concerned, is our debate at all serious and meaningful if this year the whole COVID policy of the government was implemented by an extra-budget fund of about PLN 100 billion? Did we in this Chamber, before this fund started to be implemented, have any debate on this issue? We didn't. Have we had any debate about how the structure of the National Health Fund, which is an extra-budget fund, will be changed? We didn't. In theory, the expenditure of the COVID fund does not increase public debt, it is not public expenditure, it has been hidden in BGK, but it goes to the Labour Fund or the ZUS, so it is already known that the European Union will calculate our actual debt, our actual deficit in another way. So the debate that we are having here is only about the cut-off of public finances, and it is about the less important one, the stiff one. Where the government leaves its flexibility, it's outside the state budget. This process has long been noticed by economists, called debudgetisation of state finances. The PiS government here creatively develops the foundations and foundations for creative budget accounting, which was once laid by Minister Jan Vincent-Rostowski from the opposition Civic Platform at the moment. You deserve each other. You hide your actual tasks, your actual plans and your actual actions from the citizens and Members. You do not allow a credible, real debate before budget policy is planned, and you are giving us here as a voting machine only for approval of what you have decided in the privacy of your offices. You need to be told that to your eyes, and we're gonna tell you that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u28	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u29	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to say that we met at the same place a year ago, and then the government bragged about a budget without a deficit, first in history. Back then, as we said it was of course empty propaganda, you laughed, knocked on the forehead and said that we had no idea and above all we've never ruled, and you're professionals at it. Like my predecessor, Mr Bosak said: this is pure propaganda, you lie to people. And you have to lie about it. You just need to see it. What are you doing? You guys have been making anti-crisis shields in the heaviest year of the last decade or at least a few decades. These crisis shields you're doing are based on: you see us, you think, that's probably how it's supposed to be. However, small businesses are unfortunately suffering from this. One of your ministers in one of your interviews said that the government is dealing with the crown crisis phenomenally. That's what he used: phenomenally. I'd really like to make that sound, because I think the people who are watching us today, at least the part that you banned from working, the part that you shut down the companies, the part that's wondering how to tie ends to ends, the part that the coming holidays aren't gonna be so much fun... Or worse: it's those people who got sick - they didn't get coritos, they caught other diseases, and these other diseases drove them into the grave. Just like it was in November when we had $20,000. cases of non-COVID death more than in the previous 10 years, which makes last November the worst November since World War II. You're responsible for all of this. In the meantime, your minister is brazen to say that you're doing phenomenally. This is your problem, unfortunately, that this is how you (the bell) communicate with society. It's our duty, it's our duty to defy the Confederacy. Thank you very much. Lie.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u30	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. It's too short, Marshal, at least one and a half minutes. One and a half minutes. I invite Mr Paweł Rychlik from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, there are now 70 Members reporting. So don't argue about time. I'm in session. Nobody gets hurt. And let's stick to that. You're welcome, sir. But it doesn't mobilize me, it just feels like love directed at the marshal. I thank the Members for this. Is Mr Paweł Rychlik in the Chamber? There isn't. Oh, it's cut short. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. One and a half minutes, Marshal. You're not gonna force anything on me. I'll do it with love.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Together, the revised 2020 budget and the draft 2021 budget should be considered, as these budgets are closely linked. The government has led billions of Polish taxpayers, public money beyond the budget through special funds, to manipulate debt levels, manipulate public opinion, and to share it for my own without any criteria beyond the Sejm's control. The last split into local investments fully confirms this. They got rich communities, and the poorest, the poorest, got zero. My question: How much public money is left on special funds, and how will they be further shared? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the issue of unexpired expenses. How much money is spent on unexploded expenses at the end of the year? No one knows that, ladies and gentlemen. The last question I have to ask here. Reading development program. Why isn't there a single dollar in the budget for this program? Is it because the level of reading in Poland is decreasing? Are we supposed to make no one read anymore because there's nothing in the libraries to read, nothing new? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska from the Left parliamentary club. We'll be able to connect remotely with your messenger. Welcome. There you go. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u33	I've put 20 proposals into the budget. Among the general proposals relating to the state budget as such the most important for local governments is to supplement the educational part of the general subsidy, as the educational part of the general subsidy per year is smaller. At the moment, it's less than 55%. measures needed to maintain schools and eats completely the current resources of local governments which are needed for other purposes directly related to the everyday life of people, such as health centres, care services, social services, daycare, orderkeeping, safety, roads etc. Among the local conclusions, the most important one is - or one of the most important ones - the one concerning the reconstruction of platforms and the restoration of old station functions to Poznań Main Station. The building at Poznań Main Station stands empty, it is a beautiful historic building. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, the station has been moved to the mall and is there on the principle of kaduka law, in this mall is completely impractical, it is a source of irritation, not the comfort of travelers. Another local proposal concerns funds for the music school, which was located in a building on one of the central streets in Poznań, at ul. Głogowska. This building was taken by the Church and the music school has no building. The city has allocated to this music school a plot under the... Miss, we're gonna cut it short because it's already 1 minute and 40 seconds. ...the state budget includes funds to start building this school. I'm also asking for resources for...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u34	Thank you very much, madam. Thank you very much. Thank you for the vote. I give the floor to Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Three short questions. Why was there no place in the 2021 budget for flagship projects promised by the United Right in several election campaigns? Why isn't there money for the 13th pension? Why aren't there any resources for the 75+ senior drug program? Solidarity funds... Why isn't there a health care modernisation fund? These are three fundamental questions. If the state in the election campaign promised it, it's time to explain it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u36	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have very optimistic budgetary assumptions - a huge increase in GDP next year. But who's gonna make that increase? You have paid a double tax on limited partnership companies, which will therefore not work in this form - over 40 thousand. companies, 3 million employees. You butchered the gastronomy, butchered the fitness industry. Who's gonna make that increase? Despite this growth, you have assumed 82 billion debt. Therefore, I have a question: Who will pay back this debt and when? It's not your government, it's probably gonna have to be the Confederate government. Thank you. Ha, ha, ha! Oh, Jesus, I hope not.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u38	Thank you very much for this hopeful voice, Mr President. Mrs Agnieszka, go after her, not associated. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is also the budget of an average Pole. The European study GfK indicated that in 42 countries average Kowalski occupies 28th place with his earnings. Pole earns an average of 32 thousand. per year, Irish - 90, Germany - 120. The virus test also shows how the purchasing power of Poles will fall. Unfortunately, the Polish Kowalski will have 38% less purchasing power, i.e. his situation will definitely deteriorate. This budget is a huge debt budget that we don't really know what it is yet. Because you have excluded from the spending rule the investments that the Minister was talking about, we will not fully know what debt we are leaving to the new generation. 70% Young Poles want to leave. What's in this budget for these Poles? What's gonna keep them? They're gonna have to work in debt. I'm from a generation that's heard over the years that we don't make as much money as we do in Europe because we're paying Gierka's debts. Are they gonna listen to this, too? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u40	Thank you very much. Probably because they're paying Game back, they won't listen anymore. But we'll see. Mr Andrzej Noblechta, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would like to invite you kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! During the debate, a board was presented presenting alleged new taxes planned for 2021. I have a question for the Minister. Are the alleged taxes actually fiscal in nature and can be called taxes, e.g. Retention fee? And while referring to debt, I would like to ask, is it true that the state debt at the end of 2019, i.e. under normal conditions of functioning of the state, before the pandemic, amounted to PLN 990 billion? Is it true that the Government of Law and Justice embraced governments in 2015 when debt was over 54% and normally left debt at 43% ? Thank you very much. That's not true. 524.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Aleksander Mishalski from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition, will probably answer this question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u43	Mr. Marshal, I'd rather ask you a question. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the rulers if they could finally spend money collected from Poles on matters that are important for our countrymen and needed, instead of PiS propaganda, on wages for their party colleagues and on institutions cooperating politically? You spend just 900 million PLN on railway infrastructure, but on TVP - 2 billion PLN, on ombudsman - 50 million PLN, but on radio and television - over 63, at the Polish Academy of Sciences - 91 million PLN, but on the Church Fund - 140 PLN, on psychiatric medicine - 87 million PLN, but on IPN - 400 million. We have tabled amendments to spend some of the funds allocated to the IPN for a really important target for Małopolska - the funding of COVID district hospitals fighting against COVID. It is also necessary to expand the university hospital in Krakow, the construction of a junction in Krzyszkowice, the bypasses of Mszana Dolna, Limanowa, Gorlic, Grybowa, railway lines Kraków - Świątekniki - Myślenice and Kraków - Olkusz. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope that you will take these amendments into account and meet the goals that are really important for Małopolan. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u44	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! From the very beginning, the Left parliamentary club considers the improvement of the health of Poles and Poles as one of its priorities. It is estimated that endometry, or severe gynaecological disease, affects 300 million women in the world. In Poland, up to 2 million women are struggling with this disease. Therefore, as President of the Parliamentary Group on the I would like to ask whether the Government of Law and Justice will support my amendment, marked by No 262, which assumes an increase of PLN 30 million in the amount to be allocated to the creation of a national programme of prevention and effective treatment of endometrosis. It is worth noting that the amount of the National Health Fund's refund for the procedure to remove lesions within the ovaries, i.e. the so-called. Ovarian endometriosis is PLN 2100 and the real cost of surgery, which patients have to cover with their own money, out of their own pocket, is over 20,000. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I call on the Government of the United Right to show real solidarity towards women suffering from this serious illness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u47	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask if there will be money in the next year's budget to correct the errors resulting from at least the controversial distribution of local investment funds? The main issue is the lack of an operating block on the list at the hospital in Rawa Mazowiecka. What were your criteria that the construction of the parking lot at the municipality won, is on the list, and there is no such important investment as the renovation, the construction of the operating block in the hospital? I also have a question about investments that people of the Łódź voivodship have been waiting for very long: Will there finally be a S14 road with the Sulejów ring road, which was promised by PiS politicians before all the elections that took place recently? Will the S8 road link between Łódź South and Tomaszów Mazowiecki be finally built? Will the Skierniewic ring road with the town of Mokra Law be built? Will there finally be a railway stop in the town of Żurawi in the district (Dzwonek) of Rawski, about which local government officials from the district of Rawski, from all surrounding municipalities, are coming? Please answer these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u48	Thank you very much. Are you Janusz Korwin-Mikke? None. There isn't. I would therefore like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon from the Parliamentary Club the Civic Coalition. Mr Suchoń goes, approaches, is near, enters, is there. Good morning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, also for bringing it to the speaker, because it's really important. High Izbo! The budget for 2021 was to be very good for Poland. That is what government officials said, but these declarations lacked a basic thing - a good budget. Because the budget presented by the government for 2021 is just bad for Poles. That is why I report to the budget more than 20 changes, which budget from the point of view of, among others. The inhabitants of Bielska Biała, the district of Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywiecki improve. And these funds are more than PLN 115 million for hospitals, as well as PLN 100 million for fighting smog in the south of the Silesian Voivodeship, another group is PLN 800 million for infrastructure, among others. at the Beskidzki Integration Road and the intersection in Ustron, in Pszczyna, in Czechowice-Dziedzice. But I also propose (The Bell) an amendment concerning economic education. I think this is a very important amendment. And I ask the government to answer whether it is willing to support this amendment. It is a programme of economic education for pupils in the eighth grade of primary schools, which is intended to make young people distinguish between lies, propaganda of the government of law and justice, and truth and reality. And the question is, is the government willing to support this good amendment? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u50	I'm sure you do, sir. I hope so, Marshal. Member of Monika Falej, parliamentary club of the Left, member of Elbląg land. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u51	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You're not here, Minister! We have heard today: the Government of the United Right considers that it has prepared a security budget and an investment budget. It is I who ask: How should people working in health care feel safe, how patients and patients in hospitals often on the brink of financial efficiency, without the means for investment, without the means for treatment? How are retired, seniors who have been deprived of their 13th pension? Why, because it's not an election year? How should local residents and residents feel about how the government has distributed support funds according to political criteria rather than the needs of local communities? How should the regions of Warmia and Mazury, Powiśla, such as Iława, Elbląg, Olsztyn, Ełk without investment, for which they seek to align living standards with other regions of Poland [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or Europe? How do you feel about dividing people into better and worse? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u53	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since a few debates, I have been trying to figure out why agricultural expenditure has been falling steadily since 2015. First of all, in 2015 this indicator was 8.1% in the budget, in 2018 6,5% , and for example in 2021 it will be less than 6%, because 5,95%. So we have a successive drop, which is in absolute numbers from about 5 to 7 billion a year. At the same time, of course, we also have an indicator that says it should be about 1%. as regards GDP. And this is where the dissonance is, because at the same time we have many tasks, such as those related to water management, e.g. Monastery Monastery in southern Wielkopolska - this application is also rejected - but there are also expenditures for fighting ASF, buying animals from so-called. Blue Zones (The Bell) where the price falls below 3 PLN. This is simply a disaster for farms in the production region, such as. Wielkopolska. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u54	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michał Urbaniak, the Wheel of the Polish Confederation. Mr Michael Urbaniak is not here. So Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u55	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The most important debate is in the Seym, and there is no minister, there is no Prime Minister. Perhaps it is a good thing that there is no Prime Minister, because he would probably say what an excellent budget it is, how great it is in Poland, and whenever he says well, it turns out that it is even worse than we all thought. As a former self-government officer, I want to draw attention to the fact that it will be a very difficult year, 2021. And this budget doesn't fix this difficult year in any way. First of all, it does not improve the situation of local governments, which will once again be treated by this government as ATMs. Once again, the planned increase in education subsidies will not keep up with education expenditure, and to a significant extent this government is responsible for this expenditure. Let me remind you that only in my city, which I represent in the Polish Parliament, in Łódź, revenue fell by almost PLN 0.5 billion. Most of these revenues have fallen due to a lack of decision [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or the bad decisions of the current government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, parliamentary club of the Left. You don't have a messenger. Mr Stefan Krajewski, please, Coalition... Poland, Mr. Marshal. ... Poland - Polish People's Party, Democratic Union, Conservatives.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u57	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Here my clubmate has already asked, but this is a very important issue. This is about the amount of expenditure from the agricultural budget. This budget was higher in 2011, 2013, 2014 and 2015 than this year. And you keep saying that we didn't care about agriculture in the previous coalition. Because you didn't care. Since 2015, when you have taken over governments in this country, agricultural expenditure has been falling dramatically. On the other hand, there are more and more challenges: the five we discussed here are about to enter a new green order. You don't prepare farmers in any way. It may be worth considering, for example, the use of appropriate resources for agricultural advisory services, which were to be improved, and today we can see only quality at every step. It is worth to increase these expenditures. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. Ladies and gentlemen, those Members who have not arrived because they have been to committee meetings when they come will be placed at the end of the list, because they must somehow be glued together. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u59	On behalf of my colleague Urbaniak, I thank you very much for this decision. Ladies and gentlemen! I continue to talk about taxes, because Prime Minister Morawiecki said that taxes that are now being raised are taxes that will be collected to save what's left of the koravirus to help society somehow, because it is known that one has to deal with these payouts from the shields. Minister of Finance... What was his name? Kościński, right? The finance minister who comes in here sometimes, but rarely speaks, is using his young deputy, who shoots some complete blunders. This finance minister said he felt like a saint. Santa, 'cause he's actually the one who keeps lowering taxes all the time. So I'm going back to my first statement. With this level of complacency and insolence, it is difficult to predict what else you are planning for us, but I would very much like to hear what taxes you are planning to raise since January, because, as we know, you have introduced something new every month since the beginning of this term. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. The Confederation's fairy tales.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u60	Thank you very much. Is Mr Cezary Grabarczyk in the Chamber? There isn't. I invite Mr Krzysztof Smishek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In 2000... You absent Mr. Minister of Finance! 2020 is a year that has had a terrible impact on the situation of many social and professional groups. One of them, I have the impression that completely forgotten and which was not discussed at all, are employees of Polish courts. Working in remote and COVID conditions wasn't any easier. You had to replace your sick friends, there were more cases, longer procedures. Too often we forget those thanks to which courts, Polish courts can still work independently. Above all, regardless of attempts at pressure and politicisation. Assistants, referenda, curators, minutesmen - they serve Poles and Poles on a daily basis, invisible, working for funny money. I want to ask you how the government evaluates their level of pay and what plans the government has for them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] the financial and professional future. In the budget for 2021 - Not a word. I tabled an amendment granting the judicial administration 300 PLN gross. They deserve to have higher wages. And I hope that, unlike what the Members have done during the committee meeting, they will vote in favour of this amendment in the plenary room. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u62	Hope usually dies last. Mr Marek Sawicki, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland, this time Polish People's Party. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u63	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The absent Prime Minister! Today we are talking about the budget and the money for 2021. You're bragging that this budget is resourceful, and I'm worried that the money you have right now, you can't manage and spend rationally. Indemnities in the area of the Rural Development Programme. There's less than 50% on farmers' accounts. means, it doesn't even have it yet, and we've only got three years left from a 10-year perspective, that's n+3. I also want to ask you if you'll stop this waste at the National Agricultural Support Centre. It's about the desert on the street. Inflant. It's been a year and a half since... The rent is paid and the building is empty. And at the same time, you rent a place on the street. Carol's, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's supposed to be more comfortable for the CEO. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u64	Thank you very much. We will connect with Mr Korwin-Mikke, whom we have not been able to connect with. There it is. You're welcome, sir. And we still can't. If you turn on the microphone, Mr... The mic still needs to be turned on. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u65	Is that okay? Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Here all Members are asking to increase expenditure from the budget. We, the right hand, note that every zloty spent from the budget is 40 gr loss for Poland. So the smaller the budget, the better. But apart from the state budget, there are also various other budgets: the budget of the Social Security Office, budgets of various institutions, as well as budgets of state-owned companies, where Poland is indebted by sovereign companies. Note one such expense, namely expenditure on the purchase of Polish Press from the publishing house in Pasawa. What is confusing is that the government is glad that it bought these newspapers from the publishing house in Pasawa, the opposition is furious that the government has made such a great deal, but nobody notices that this company has disposed of the newspapers (the bell) which will soon fall - all of them are going down at the moment, because the paper press will disappear. It is the stupidity of Polish politicians who do not see that Poland saves - it is a small expense, a few hundred million - it is a German publishing house, only everyone thinks that the government did very well. Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard for me to talk to politicians who don't understand the element of economics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u67	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! In your epoch program for Silesia, which was supposed to change the face of our region, no one believes. Even your ally head of Silesian-Dąbrovsk Solidarity recently said that the programme for Silesia smells like a burnt chop and looks similar. One day a museum of promises of Mateusz Morawiecki will be established and there the program for Silesia will stand between the ferry of Batory, a hundred thousandth apartment and a millionth electrician on Polish roads. I will probably hear in response that billions are involved and working, but I will not hear what it means to be involved and working. Or maybe someone like me and my friends at the party will call themselves members of an outside group, which, to say the least, is despicable between us. My questions: How much money do you provide for the implementation of the Silesian Programme in 2021? When will you declassify the minutes of the Steering Committee and the Executive Board of the Silesian Programme? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u68	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! For years, national parks, our national treasure, have indicated the most important barrier to development, which is the lack of funds. Landscape parks are even tragically underfunded and without funding, without these funds they are unable to fulfil any tasks. However, the budget for this is far too small every year. The preservation and expansion of these parks is crucial for our future, because it is part of the fight against climate disaster. These areas are also crucial for flooding and drought, for water management. Their influence cannot be overestimated. As you can see, the government values them much less - we see it in this budget proposal. He'd rather cut down the woods by proposing a law on energy wood than keep what's most valuable. The priorities need to be changed. How are such underfunded parks supposed to carry out protective measures against ecosystems? How are teams of landscape parks supposed to function efficiently with this little funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u71	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The absentee Minister of Finance! I think this is already beginning to happen: there is no Minister of Finance in the course of the budget debate, there is no Minister of Agriculture in the course of the agricultural debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Two subjects. Local roads. Dear government, when are you finally going to take the issue of local roads seriously? I'm from West Pomerania. 15,000. km of local roads, i.e. local and district roads. Six times more than the last time. 15,000. One kilometer, ladies and gentlemen. 100 years, 150 years we want to build it? Finally, the subject needs to be taken seriously. What are you talking about? Second theme. Dear government, stop cheating and, above all, rob Polish local governments. You don't pay a certain education grant, local governments pay off their money. Instead of building roads, pavements, building sewers, they add to education. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the task of the State. Don't lie to me. It's your job, and they pay up to 50%, ladies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] And for PSL, what was it like?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u72	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I have this one-time reflection. I have a request for opposition to stop attacking the government in a reckless manner. The Minister of Finance doesn't have to be at the meeting when we talk about the budget. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] These are not the things that matter most to the Minister of Finance. There are clearly other, more important things you don't know about. So please, really, without such cynical, ironic comments. You're welcome. [[Applause]] Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A record public debt of PLN 1520 billion, or 40,000. PLN per head of each Pole, an increase of almost 600 billion PLN only during the PiS government. That's the truth about state finances. Meanwhile, what does Prime Minister Morawiecki say? Prime Minister Morawiecki recently from this speaker stated that thanks to the determination of Jarosław Kaczyński public finances are in as good a condition as ever. It's just a lie. You promised a balanced budget, and instead there's a record hole. You want to pour money into this hole from citizens' wallets, so you impose new taxes: sugar tax, trade tax, higher power charge, higher electricity charges, CIT for limited companies, family companies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] the abolition of the abolition allowance for people working abroad, and probably soon the rain tax. This is irresponsible management of public finances, and you should not spill your mistakes on citizens, because it is not the citizens who are guilty of it, so these taxes are wrong. You should be more concerned about how to limit this hole, not pushing it on citizens. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Carrot received a round of applause for being against the rain tax. Probably the right thing to do. Stupidity tax. Mrs Paulina Matysiak from the Left parliamentary club. Come on in. We're curious about the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today was the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the situation of landfills in Gorlice and Zgierz. Of course, it is not that we only have these two landfills, the problem is wider and concerns the whole of Poland. At the meeting of the committee, Minister Jacek Odoroba stated in one of his replies that the cost of neutralizing hazardous waste across Poland is about PLN 2 billion. A moment later it turned out that this amount was undervalued and that it needed much more money. That's where I'm going with the question. The situation is bad not to say tragic. Isn't this the right time to look for money so that we can finally clean up Poland so that we can live and live in a safe country? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Okay. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u77	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An important part of the budget for our lives and health is the resources allocated to environmental protection. As you know, the European Union has obliged Member States to achieve climate neutrality by 2050 and to increase their CO reduction target
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u78	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Kurzawa from the Coalition Poland Parliamentary Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u79	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to ask where the financial compensation for local governments is recorded in this budget, because at present there is not enough money, which is provided under the educational subsidy for payments to teachers, and such funds are not visible in this budget. You reduce taxes for some young entrepreneurs, but do not increase the resources for other tasks that are delegated to local governments. That's one question. Second question. How do you intend to compensate for these hurtful decisions taken under the Government Local Investment Fund, according to which many municipalities such as Dąbrowa Mogileńska, Kcynia, Inowroclaw, Strzelno, Mogilno have not received any funds. We need to fix this mistake and stop the party money-sharing. Finally, as a resident of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, I would like to apologize for Father Tadeusz Rydzyk. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u80	Culture requires this apology to be accepted, so on behalf of the apologies, thank you for this apology. Mr Michał Szczerba, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u81	Dear Marshal, For Warsaw we will not apologize, we will talk about Warsaw because we have to talk about it, because the epidemic continues and the government reaches deeper and deeper into the pockets of local governments, wants to divide Mazowsze and cut them off from some EU funds. Load for M.S. Warsaw is also unfairly Janosik. As a result of its faulty construction, despite a significant loss of revenue and this year, and next year, Warsaw will pay PLN 1300 million, i.e. by PLN 85 million more than this year. Therefore, funds are needed for investments such as the construction of the Sinfonia Varsovia Centre at ul. Grochowska, the roofing of Stegna Łyżwiarska Toru, the construction of a sports and entertainment hall at the stadium and finally the beginning of the construction of the Skry athletic stadium. I also propose an amendment - as every year, it is such an endless story - concerning the national Alzheimer's programme for 0.5 million Polish and Poles suffering from dementia diseases. The coverage source is very simple - IPN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The IPN will have PLN 412 million in revenue next year, every year the budget of this institution is increased by millions of zlotys each year. Instead of money for national memory, to increase the salary of an increasing group of officials, let's transfer 10 million PLN to start a program for patients with dementia, Alzheimer's disease in our country. It will be a good deed to the High House, which you can do next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u82	Thank you very much. I thought that you would make such a point, Mr President, that the IPN affects dementia, but rightly so, it is a transfer of funds. Here you go, I invite Mr Jack Protasiewicz, the Coalition of Poland - Union of European Democrats.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u83	Thank you, Marshal. As a result of refusing to finance many sensible, useful projects from the local initiatives fund, dozens of municipalities in Lower Silesia will be deprived of funding. On behalf of some of them, I have tabled amendments. These include: road investments such as: in the municipality of Świebodzice - construction of a small bypass plus a number of renovations of other streets, in the municipality of Stoszowice, and more specifically, in the village of Szczytna - reconstruction of ul. Hospital, in the municipality of Nowa Ruda - very many necessary modernizations and reconstructions of the road system. They also concern environmental issues, such as enclosures by photovoltaic installation of public buildings in Warta Bolesławiecka commune. There are innovative investments, such as the construction of an art-entrepreneurship incubator in Bielawa. There are such investments in tourism, so important for the Lower Silesian region (Dzwonek), such as the modernization of the Old Town Dzierżonów Centre or the reconstruction of the tower in Sněžnik. Finally, there are also those that concern education, a very important area, e.g. modernization of the primary school in the municipality of Pęcław or reconstruction, extension of the primary school building for pre-school use in the village of Szczytna. And all these investments I propose to finance not from increasing public debt, but from reducing public debt, from reducing the cost of borrowing money by the Polish government, especially since as a result of the adoption of the Fund for Reconstruction in the European Union such lending for the purpose of combating the effects of the COVID will be cheaper, the cost of this will be lower than if we rejected this Fund for Reconstruction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Joński, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u85	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This budget is a budget of pious wishes for PiS activists and for PiS activists. PiS treats the state budget as its own account at all. He pays PiS activists and where they rule, and where they don't rule, he doesn't pay. It doesn't warm up social services houses in Łódź anyway, because nobody from the PiS is in charge in Łódź. He doesn't renovate a building where people live in Kutno because he doesn't rule Kutno either. But the construction of the Łódź ring road, where there will be no exit to the city of Łódź, will pass into history, because it is in Łódź that PiS does not rule. But the PiS can spend money on their own. $70 million for an arms dealer? There it is. $10 million for a CBA teller? There it is. Everything's non-refundable. 70 million zlotys on Sasin's envelopes? There it is. 5 million zlotys for left masks? There it is. 250 million PLN for Rydzyk's father? There it is. And 2 billion zlotys for TVP? There it is. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Well, I want to say very clearly: Law and Justice builds a party state for our money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's not what we agree to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u86	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You don't get it because there's no one there. As usual, there is no Minister, there is no Prime Minister. You haven't learned anything, you haven't learned anything from this year's terrible budget, and you're bringing in even worse next year. The only thing you can do is throw public money. Ladies and gentlemen! What is a priority for the government in the new year? 200 million more for the Prime Minister's firm. New limousines for the government, which will be more than ambulances in Poland. And, of course, 2 billion on TVP. Ladies and gentlemen, should this really be government priorities in times of crisis and epidemic? Why do you not want to give money at the Lublin Land Oncology Centre, the Senior Health Center in Lublin or the Family Support Center when you are conducting pro-family policies? That's all I'm asking. I call on the Members of the region to support regional proposals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The government is introducing today, in times of crisis, new taxes for Poles, expensive in shops, treating citizens like ATMs without limit. Ladies and gentlemen, the current government is unfortunately an economic illiterate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u88	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! Ladies eternally absent during important discussions, Prime Minister! Despite the epidemic, despite the economic crisis prices in Poland are still crazy. The inflation in Poland is highest throughout the European Union. However, there are still few of you, and for next year you are again giving us a series of inflationary impulses, which will result in further price increases. This is the case every year, which is why we have for years the highest or one of the highest inflations in Europe. For example, the commercial tax is 100%, of course. will translate into the prices of goods in the store. We've had cases like this before. As far as sugar tax is concerned, the child will buy only two at the previous price of three juices. The oil change fee will make the use of our cars more expensive. Also new tariffs, the capacity charge will of course translate into higher energy prices, as is estimated, by 12 , [[♪ The bell ♪]] and more expensive energy is again a huge inflationary boost, which will make the prices of goods and services avalanche, because it will grow one of their main components, namely electricity. Will you finally understand that tax increases are not the best way to deal with the crisis, to get out of the economic crisis? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask you a question about what you do not like Warsaw women and Warsaw women so much, but there is no Minister, so let me answer for him. You don't like it because the Warsawers and the Warsaw women don't support you, and President Kaczyński said clearly: please support us and do not disturb us. And all those who oppose this do not comply with this request, pay a high price for it. You show your dislike for Warsaw women and Warsaw in different ways: physically, pacifying strikes on the streets of the capital, but also financially, taking away the opportunity for the Warsaw people to invest in their development. Last time you guys left us out of the local investment fund. I hope you are aware that you do not ignore the self-government that you do not like, the politics you do not like, you just ignore the inhabitants, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who are waiting for new medical facilities, kindergartens, daycare and schools. And because there are no budget points in this budget for Warsaw, I made a number of amendments - from the funding of the Hospitals: Southern, Praski and Wolski to the construction of crèches, tram lines at Tarchomin or the purchase of low-carbon buses. You still have a chance to do something good for the people of Warsaw. I'd like you to give them the money, back them up with the investments they need. Don't let them be victims of your political revenge. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Another budget in which you owe Poland for another PLN 135 billion. Plus 10 new taxes. The next increase in your performance is no longer simply an end. It would seem that after such movements in this budget, the money will be for anything, that it will be enough for anything. Unfortunately, it doesn't work out for the Poles. On behalf of the inhabitants of Małopolska I have tabled several amendments to this budget, because recently, last week, they were brutally robbed by Mateusz Morawiecki and PiS politicians. 2 million Małopolan was left without a penny of support. In this budget, you have one last chance to vote in favour of the amendments that will be supported by the hospitals in Małopolska, to complete the extension of the university hospital, to complete the construction of a special school and education centre, which you often say is very necessary and should be implemented. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't want to tell you where you have the fate of the weak, the disabled. He doesn't interest you at all, because you're focused on each other. You want to take, actually steal from this budget as much as you can. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u95	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Firstly, we should demand that the Minister of Finance participate in this discussion. This is a key debate about finance. You have indebted our country to nearly PLN 600 billion in the last few years. And today, when we talk about the budget, also about all the important regional elements, I would like to talk about a few of them. Firstly, the need for road investments, so often interrupted by countries. Let me give you an example of the municipality of Złotoryja. The Goldish region received 1 million out of 2 billion support from the local investment fund. Neighborhood counties of 20, 30 million. That is why I request that the Goldoryi ring road be financed by these funds. It is also about you to rebuild, among others. footpath, which collapsed a few years ago in the town of Lubin, the bridge and crossing in Głogów and Ścinawa. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the budget of the last chance for the municipalities, which you have de facto taken away the funding from the local initiatives fund. This is the moment for you to accept our amendments. We will account for you, especially the Members of Law and Justice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u96	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u97	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There is no minister, so I'm gonna put this request in the hands of the staff of the Ministry present. In 2016, you froze the project that guaranteed voluntary firefighters a pension grant. In 2020 this project appeared here, the first reading took place in January. All clubs have declared their support for this project. The project was supposed to go to two joint committees. During the campaign President Duda promised support for this project, for pension subsidies for volunteer firefighters. I would like to ask you how you will fulfill this promise. In the amendment to the budget I directed the amount of PLN 50 million for this purpose. Does the government support this amendment, or does it have any other idea that this supplement to the firefighter's volunteer pension should come along? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How do you want to help local authorities in Silesia to revitalize degraded mining areas, where there are powerful holes, severed collapses, areas that are destroyed? How do you plan to allocate these funds? How do you want to support local governments in building and modernising roads in Silesia? I'm talking about the main road, the southern road in the district of więsławski, the regional road Racibórz - Pszczyna in Rybnik and the section leading to Raciborz. How do you want to support these local governments? Do you have an idea? Will you support the amendments I tabled in the state budget for 2021? There's a district police station in Hawk-Zdrój. For 40 years it has been located in a residential building in the middle of the estate. We're done here, sir. It was repeatedly promised to change this location, to build a state police headquarters. Do you have these funds written down in this budget of the state or not? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u98	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Frydrych, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u99	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Not so long ago, because on Wednesday, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that Poland today has public finances as good as ever in history. If this is true, the investment in Podkarpackie should be carried out quickly. The amendments I tabled are very important for the development of the region. These are amendments for Krosn, Jasła, Przemyśl, Jarosław, Przeworska, Sanok and Usrzyk. It is an express road, railway link, motorway exits and many, many other very important investments. Ladies and gentlemen! It's not art to sign letters of intent. The art is to make promises come true. I now call on Mr Mark Kuchciński to oblige Members of the United Rights to vote in favour of these amendments. If you vote in favour of these amendments, then I will believe the Prime Minister, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought he was telling the truth on Wednesday. We'll get to know you by your actions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u100	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland, about 3 million people suffer from diabetes, both type I and type II, and about 5 million people are at risk, which means that sooner or later they will become sick with this sneaky disease. When we add up these numbers, we'll have 8 million people, citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, this number cannot be ignored because it is a serious quantitative and qualitative problem for the whole health system. Ladies and gentlemen! What is the most annoying thing about diabetes in our country? Namely, the inequality of access to benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable to share patients in the 21st century because of the type of diabetes and their age. That is why we must immediately equalise the benefits for all the sick. The NFZ should be refunded immediately with personal insulin pumps and continuous monitoring of glycaemic control systems, CGM, for type I diabetes patients aged 26 years or over. The access to modern diabetic therapy (Bingle) should be improved for all diabetic patients. A nationwide social campaign should also be carried out to make the public aware of how sneaky and dangerous diabetes is, which is often caused by a bad diet, leading initially to obesity and then to serious cardiovascular complications, including many other bad complications, and ultimately untreated leads to premature deaths. Dear Minister, Deputy Minister, because there is no Minister, I would very much like to ask you on behalf of the Parliamentary Group for Affairs. Diabetes to take these two amendments into account. This is a burning, urgent problem that must be included in this budget. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Golbik, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is indeed surprising that the debate on the shape of the budget for next year is of such little interest from Members of the governing party, because it is today that we should set the most important criteria for public spending. I want to draw your attention to two things today. The first, absolutely outrageous, concerns the distribution of money between local governments, to which you still have not addressed. It is dramatic to listen to local government officials who are unable to build a kindergarten in their own community because the government distributes money according to political sympathy. I'd like you to talk about it today. On the other hand, with regard to the budget for next year, you have a lot of amendments, but most of them are extremely important and I would like to see that with a light hand you are rejecting them only because the opposition has submitted them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please pay attention to the amendments concerning, for example, child psychiatry, which is so desperately in need of funding these days, and please accept them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in, Mrs. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u105	Chairman of the Kaczyński Committee! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The public debt currently stands at 1300 billion. In 2021, it is to be 1.5 trillion. These are astronomical sums. Literally. There are 200 billion stars in our galaxy, so 1.5 trillion is eight such galaxies as our Milky Way. [[Applause]] So I ask you, how are you going to repay this astronomical debt? What other taxes are you gonna put on us? Let me remind you that next year tax revenue will fall by 40 billion, and according to Tax Foundation report among OECD countries, the Polish tax system is one of the worst, third from the end. How much longer will you hide your expenses and throw them out of the budget, thus avoiding the prudential threshold in the Constitution? How many more pages of this poor, miserable constitution are you gonna rip out to hide your inability? Since you came to power, you have increased your debt by PLN 600 billion, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's three galaxies, madmen! I propose we introduce a new measure of debt and your inability to measure in the galaxies, because millions and billions aren't enough for you. This government has to go before you bankrupt this country. Thank you very much. Thank you for letting me finish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u106	Thank you, madam. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd love to address the finance minister, but he's not here. I would like to address Deputy Minister Patkowski, but he's not here either. There are no parliamentarians from Radom land. But I would like to address those who are here. Tell Radom, Members of Law and Justice: It is worth voting in favour of the Radom amendments. It is worth voting for an amendment that will give our city money for the construction of a viaduct, a viaduct that is also needed by Minister Weber, who is here with us because it is a viaduct that will serve the airport in Radom. 30 million from the Government Local Investment Fund is not enough. 75 million is needed for this viaduct. You have to face the truth. Today, in the hands and tablets - because, as you can see, the Radom Members work remotely - there is a vote on this amendment. Another important amendment, ladies and gentlemen, is to finally eliminate the storage site of nitrocellulose in Pawns. As long as I am a Member (the bell), I will repeat: in Pawns it must be safe. The city must not be threatened with an explosion, which is a remnant of the times rightly past, when the gunpowder factory in Pawns left waste there. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the epidemic is very important. Ex-Mazowieckie Voivodeship, she'll probably join my opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of an ambulance in Kozienice cannot be that we will take an ambulance and give it to another village. If there's need for another ambulance in the Kozienice, let's get that ambulance. It's only $750,000. Zł, a fraction of one Sasin that you spent on the election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We don't have to find out that we are living in difficult times. We don't have to find out about the fact that these times are imprinting on the state budget either. On the other hand, we need to convince the PiS government how to manage the state's finances and the state's budget for next year in this difficult situation in which we are in the midst of an epidemic. We are surprised by the government's approach, in which instead of limiting completely unnecessary, horrendous spending on megalomaniac investments, you continue to do so. Let me remind you: Central Communication Port for 4 years - 13 billion PLN, TVP next year - another 2 billion PLN, excavation of Vistula mine - instead of 800 million PLN 2 billion PLN. In a few minutes the state budget can find savings for the next year in the order of PLN 6 billion. On the other hand, you prefer to continue these investments so that each year Poland's debt (Dzwonek) will increase, which will be charged to each Polish woman and every Pole. Instead of investing in hospitals, you assume there's no need to correct anything, because it's enough to say on TVP that things are getting better. One more question, Mr. Marshal, at the end of one sentence. I would like to address the Members of the Law and Justice of the Lublin Region who are not here. Last year you rejected all the amendments that were made to the budget. I hope you'll at least read it this year before you're mindlessly voting against it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u110	Thank you very much. I think that when Members are absent, they have not listened to your appeal. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! What's going on with the PiS? Taxes. Most countries lower taxes due to the crisis, while the PiS introduces eight new taxes. It's a VAT gap. Would you like to ask, "Did you start stealing?" Public debt - 600 billion increased, even though you had some years of great economic prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, this year's mortality rate was 50,000. more people than last year, and just a little over 20,000. Because of Coronavirus. At least according to your statistics. Inflation - the record for the European Union in October, has also increased. And public television expenditure: on TVPiS, you spend 2 billion a year on this cesspool for the next five years, counting from last year on, actually from this year on, hoping for the future. And now one question arises: Where is the author of this success, that everything is growing? The Prime Minister is absent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister of Finance is absent, they must be ashamed. You've grown one more thing, the number of monkeys has grown. Because it turns out that taxpayers can bypass the law, and therefore it turns out that you are drinking Poles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u112	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not a good budget, because there are a lot of expenses that make no sense or harmful, like financing public television. But there is also a lack of funding for priorities such as health protection. I want to draw attention to three elements. First of all, low emissions. Smog and coronavirus are fatal threats. There are specific data that tells us that children developing in contaminated air have problems of concentration, are more likely to have ADHD, have autism disorders. Research by children from Rybnik shows that they have up to 390% more black coal in the urine than other children. Cities that need support in the fight against emissions are increasing, but spending from the state budget is still too small. The second element: I do not see money in the budget to align benefits for carers of children and adults with disabilities. This is a sentence from years ago that is still not being executed. This help is still too small. Thirdly, I wanted to ask you about the clear criteria, [[♪ The bell ♪]] how money was allocated under the Government Local Investment Fund. Tell me exactly what the criteria for this assignment were. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, the epidemic complicates a lot, not everything we can afford, but sometimes more important than money are good intentions, willingness to cooperate, willingness to accomplish tasks together. An example is the construction of a junction on the S1 road in Sosnowiec. This task is primarily ensured by the safety of thousands of users of this road every day. It guarantees the safety and comfort of life for inhabitants of many Sosnowiec districts. Today, local roads are unfortunately run over by trucks. But the construction of this junction also guarantees further development of investment areas of the Katowice special economic zone, where today more than 10,000 jobs are found. people, and these areas are still developing. But this is also the first stage on the road to connecting with the Euroterminal. It's been asked to make this investment that guarantees economic development. For the knot except for thousands of residents - here I have their signatures [[♪ The bell ♪]] - who want to build it, said the local government and parliamentarians of all the political options that signed the joint appeal. So something just doesn't feel right. We can all see that this is just a ridiculous situation. It's a psychic. This investment simply has to be realised. That is why I am asking Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to intervene in the infrastructure department, which has the pinewood government, and to make this key investment finally happen. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u116	Thank you very much. As a member of this district, I support the coalition's and the left's joint efforts on this matter. And so is the Member. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. I'm on my way, Marshal. Don't get tired. No, he's West Pomeranian, he doesn't get tired. Don't worry. If you'd fallen, I'd have held your hand so you wouldn't fall. We can handle this kind of thing. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To your piss buddies: instead of focusing on helping the entire industry, you're fighting some kind of war. Instead of working together on the budget, you fight between the soft and the tough. In quotes, the tough ones. In fact, you only care about one budget programme, the only one that's important to you. This program is not written there, but it can be called: channel+ program. This is the most important thing to you. The budget is extremely party and provides money only for its own. You can't do anything right. All your programs are simply squandered - the clean air program, the green yard program. Health now in the pandemic is the most important thing. Instead of spending money on health care, you spend $2 billion on public television. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Last sentence, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Today my friend was born a granddaughter. Congratulations to him. [[Applause]] Her name is Michalina. Do you know why she was born? Thanks to Szczecin's in vitro program, [[Applause]] Which isn't in this budget either. Thanks to this, Michalina was born and we are happy that she was born. I'm gonna ask you about one last thing, your parents' tears, the children's psychiatry program. Finally, I want a written reply: Where is the money in this budget for child psychiatry? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u118	Thank you very much. Happy birthday to little Michalina from the Polish Sejm. I'll pass it on. Mrs Isabella Leszczyn, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u119	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Please answer the Poles why we have European interest rates, but Polish inflation. After all, in this way the Minister of Finance in hand with the National Bank of Poland robs Poles, and it is the poorest ones, who are not enough for the first, and small people who carry their savings to the bank, because they cannot afford to invest, for example. in real estate. And one more thing. One of the 70 economists who signed the government's call for transparency in public finances said that the budget for 2021 is like a conclusion from the Brussels Summit - it doesn't really matter. PiS wrote what he liked, and more than 200 billion zlotys out of the budget. This is an apparent fraud, and since the Civic Coalition club does not cooperate with frauds, on behalf of the club, I am filing a motion to reject this budget at second reading. [[Applause]] And Minister Nowak?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. Are you an MP? Then we can't do it. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The state budget is an element of state awareness. Health, education, security - we talk about all this every year and this awareness is normal for us. Much more important are the local budgets, the money that allows you to build roads, bridges, sidewalks, benches in the park, just parks. That is how it is in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship and that is why I decided to make amendments. I hope they're included. The programme of thermomodernization of buildings, the construction of the medical university in Bydgoszcz, the presentation of cases which should include support for welfare homes in Nakle, Tuchola, Znin or finally the issue of funding education in powiats that always have a problem with it. It's a monitor, a computer, a laptop for every student. These are the proposals I'm making. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the budget, hoping that the Members of District 4 will vote for them, that they are aware that it is money for citizens and citizens, for all of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u122	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u123	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will start by quoting: What Morawiecki said, I understand that there will be... another sitting, another shield - Boris began. Yes, but it is good for all entrepreneurs," said Vladek. I mean, it's good - Boris answered. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a fairy tale from a series of Christmas stories, but a dialogue between two... But they didn't know he was just talking. ...people who are made up of statesmen, Mr Boris Budka and Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish, who commented on the introduced anti-crisis shields. Minister! I wanted to ask how these shields influenced the construction of the budget for next year, 2021. Did they have a positive impact on the preservation of jobs and economic activity of Poles? Mr. Marshal! Taking advantage of the fact that I am here, and on the occasion, I would also like to reply to representatives of the Polish People's Party (The Bell) who very strongly criticize the local investment fund and the decisions that have taken place in recent days. Dear Marshal, Dear colleagues! I am from the district of Wiełno. There six municipalities received support, of which three municipalities are governed by the Polish People's Party. Thank you. 1% ? He got one, only from the PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u124	Thank you, sir. But listening to this debate, I think it's a rare case after all. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u125	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Reliability in politics is priceless. In this photo, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, in the presence of Deputy Prime Minister Gliński and Marshal of the Łódź Voivodeship, makes a declaration to voters in Łódź. Regarding the junction on the S14 express road, which was already mentioned here today, he said: We will finance this node for the Łódź people. Its construction will be financed exclusively from the state budget. Those words came out on June 24th this year. There was an election campaign at the time. He added: We will do it as soon as possible so that the comfort of life of the inhabitants of this part of Łódź, but also Aleksandrów Łódź, was as good as possible. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What are the facts? The facts are that the knot will rise. But what is the response of Minister Weber, who he gave to the interpellation on the Theophile's node? He replied that the theophile node would be built, but he would better communicate the municipality of Aleksandrów Łódzki. The boat has been omitted. When you lose credibility, you lose power. There's a chance we won't lose that credibility. An amendment has been tabled concerning the extension of the Teophili node. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u126	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Piotr Benedict Zientarski, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The budget is a serious decision - some say the most serious one a year. It is the care and responsibility of the state for sustainable regional development. I dare doubt and claim that this principle, which is obvious, is not universally applicable, because by looking at the measures planned, unfortunately one can doubt the proper implementation of this principle. I'm gonna focus on two amendments that I've made that aren't some small, purely local one. It is a question of expanding the entrance to the port in Darłów, which is very important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] places of national scale, for which documentation is already prepared. And it's gonna go to waste, it's gonna be about 200 million. The second point is the reconstruction of the viaduct in Koszalin, actually the way of life, the road that decides the passage between Szczecin and Gdańsk. At the moment it is the only one, one can say: nationwide and international. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u128	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before I hand over the proceedings to my friend, Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski, and say goodbye to you, I will allow myself one reflection. I am very sorry to do this sometimes, but I think that those who are conducting the deliberations should be entitled to such reflections. I want to say it rudely, I want to say in a very serious way: people are dying, there is a pandemic. I consider the absence of the Minister of Finance during the budgetary debate to be a scandal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] But isn't that why you're leaving the marshal? [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] We ask Mr Michael Urbaniak, near the Confederation, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Government, without the Minister! Since 2021, electricity prices will increase, and you will take away our abolition relief, among others. Sailors, increase property tax, expensive garbage disposal, increase radio-television subscription, increase ZUS contributions, include 15% savings with OFE and there will be 11 other fees, danin, taxes or whatever it is called. You claim from the government that GDP will increase by 4% and that your budget will still have a deficit of 82 billion. There's so much new money you're gonna get. You're gonna owe us again, for example. There's still no money for the bridge in Tczew. You have ignored this investment for many years, although Andrzej Duda promised that the money would be there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 64% gross domestic product will be the debt to be made next year. You're indebted to the next generation, and you're really completely indebted to the next generation. You're not doing anything about it. And you will be responsible for that in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President, who has exhausted the list of Members of the floor with his question. Now I ask you to answer the questions that have been asked as many as four ministers, starting with Mr Sławomir Gadomski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u131	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! If I take the opportunity, I'll mention it. I think that many Members, asking questions in such an important area of health today, raised the issue of the Minister of Finance's absence, although I see the Deputy Minister of Finance and representatives of the Ministry. I regret very much, Mr. Marshal, that the Members were just determined. Just to ask the question, not to listen to my answer. I ask the Minister not to review Members' comments because you have been asked to answer questions. That's not what you're here for. But somebody has to answer. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Dear Marshal, I will get to that, but I would really like to answer the Members' questions... Remotely... ...who ask them, taking time for such an important debate. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll move on to the answers. I think that many Members of the Sejm today have asked questions that go beyond the budget law, and it seems that I should not explain it. By adopting the budget in the section on health expenditure, we are talking about the state budget, the whole budget debate is about that. Other debates, other committee meetings, in particular health and public finances, are devoted to the establishment of the financial plan of the NFZ. Most of the areas financed by public funds are those financed by the National Health Fund. And a huge part of the questions that have been asked here, e.g. Why doesn't the budget reflect psychiatry, endometrosis, other areas of medicine, really have questions about the National Health Fund? Moreover, these activities are mostly included in the National Health Fund. It is kind of from the end, but I will refer to Mrs Golbik's questions about child psychiatry. Of course these tasks are included in the National Health Fund. Of course, what's more, according to the priorities that we set, has been increasing for some time now. If we look only at expenditures in 2020 or the 2021 plan, it will turn out that these expenditures on child psychiatry are increasing by more than 15%. This year, when 138 new psychopsychotherapeutic clinics were contracted for children, and there are more competitions, these expenditures have doubled. Moreover, the Medical Fund Act, which entered into force at the end of November, guarantees unlimited benefits for children, including in the field of child psychiatry, so that there will be no shortage of funds in this area. But, as I say, these are questions primarily related to the National Health Fund's financial plan. I will answer briefly by referring to specific questions. Mr Paszik's question has been asked about 75+ drugs, why they are not in the budget. Mr President, there are, we have 953 million transferred in the form of grants from the state budget to the National Health Fund. This construction has been in operation for some time now. These are the drugs that have been passed on to 75+. No one has abandoned this project. Moreover, these expenditures are gradually increasing. It's not enough many times. In 2019 it was 733 million, in 2020 - 836 million, the plan for the next year is 953 million PLN. This shows how, in fact, these measures are growing by almost 200 million in 2 years, and when we started this program, they were at the level of about 600 million PLN. He also asked about the hospital modernisation fund. This fund was created, it's one of the medical fund's sub funds. This law, which I have just mentioned, which has entered into force, defines and provides for the duties of the Minister of Health in connection with this fund. We will soon present to the Council of Ministers detailed assumptions regarding this fund and, within the framework of the established path, adopted a multiannual programme, I hope that soon this fund will be adopted by the Council of Ministers and this support for hospitals in Poland will be addressed. Mr Szczerba himself mentioned that this is an endless story - the Alzheimer's programme. I have answered many times from this speaker why this programme in the formula of the health policy programme does not make sense, why there is no basis for such funding for the programme that you have asked for. You also asked me in written questions. On the other hand, I hope that good information is not only for the Member, but for many people with dementia. We, as part of the negotiations with the European Commission, are discussing, as part of the preparation of the next EU perspective, the possibility of supporting dementia patients in the form of certain daily forms of assistance, day-to-day memorial support houses. Marshal, can I have two more minutes? Yes. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you. Mr Rutka's question concerning endometriosis and certain preventive studies in this area was very correct. I'm going back to that. These benefits are financed by the National Health Fund, but if you express this expectation, then I am happy in the forum of the subcommittee, probably in this case, in fact together I am ready to consider some expansion solutions, especially since we are on the eve of really showing a public plan to rebuild the health of Poles, about which Minister Niedzielski spoke. There one of the very important pillars is preventive research, in various areas, of course important from the point of view of oncology, but not only, because at least a certain prevention program for Poles aged 40+ will also be presented. But anyway, I'm really ready to talk specifically about the enodometrosis, because it's not like it's in this area, either. There's no funding today. He's part of the National Health Fund. Perhaps we could expand some activities. And finally, maybe just a quick answer. Mrs Hennig-Kloska referred to the sugar tax. I appeal to all parliamentarians: let us not use the argument that the child in the store will no longer buy three juices, only two. It is very good for the health of our children and for the health of young Poles. Let them buy water. Water. Let them buy unsweetened water, give up buying two juicers, and make this sugar tax force that kind of action. I've already said this many times: we don't have to have sugar tax dollars, just to stop bad eating habits. We may not drink sweetened drinks. Thank you, Marshal. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u132	Thank you very much, Minister. Now, I ask Mr Andrzej Bittel, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, to answer the question previously asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Compared with previous debates of these questions concerning the broadly understood infrastructure sector, there was even, I must say, not much. It is in my view that the budget that has been planned in this area is very good. That's a bad conclusion. This view is also shared by the Committee on Infrastructure, and the statements of Minister Grabarczyk, Minister of Budget Coreferent Grabarczyk, also show that the 2021 budget is an extremely interesting, very good budget, in addition to a sustainable one between the road sector and the rail sector. Trying to answer those few questions that have been asked, some of which are out of budget... For example, this question about the railway lines in Małopolska was about the "Rail +'programme, which is not included in the budget. This is a separate programme implemented in the recapitalisation formula of PKP PLK and these procedures are carried out according to the assumed cycle. There was a question about modernization of the Poznań Main Station. PKP S.A. prepares together with the city of Poznań architectural and urban competition, so that this investment best suits the needs of the inhabitants of the Poznań agglomeration, Wielkopolska voivodship and the whole of Poland, because it is an important place on the railway map. There was a question about a stop, a station in Cranberry, in relation to the Central Railway Bus. It is a bus, which is a long-distance line, with high technical parameters, which is used to operate traffic in general outside larger towns. Therefore, concentrating regional service there makes this line lose its sense and character, and the expenses associated with maintaining it, adjusting to speeds of 200 km/h and raising this parameter to 250 km/h are not reasonable, which does not mean that there is no need to solve the problems of the people of Crane in any other way. When it comes to road issues, in Ścinawa... There was a question about the Scissor. This investment - bridge - is implemented within the framework of the government programme of Bridges for the regions. There is approved funding for preparatory work. This is the first piece of information. The second information - the ring road of Skierniewice. The Skierniewic perimeter is not included in the bypass program because it is on the so-called. alternative to national road 50, particularly heavy traffic. The S14 is under construction, in two sections, for both were signed contracts with contractors. Between 2018 and 2019 robots began on both sections. Always during the budget debate is the question about the Beskid Way of Integration. Here it can be said that after many hardships - and these hardships are based on a full appeal process against environmental decisions - this decision is already there. The programme concept is currently being developed. The Sulejów border is an integral part of the prepared S12, S74 expressway. The task is being prepared for completion. If I'm missing something, I'll try to answer it in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u134	Thank you very much, Minister. I now ask Mr Richard Bartosik, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, to speak and answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u135	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Ministers, Questions to the Minister of Agriculture concerned, among others, expenditure of budget appropriations. The question was: Why has agricultural expenditure fallen since 2015? I would like to inform the High House once again that agricultural expenditure has increased significantly since then, and in the draft budget law for 2021 the expenditure on agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets from the national budget, including expenditure on the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, is 28 960 784 thousand. PLN and will be higher compared to the Budget Act for the current year. Expenditure on agricultural and livestock subsidies has also been increased and expenditure on combating infectious animal diseases has also been increased by 120 000. for the co-financing of the Rural Development Programme and for the operation of agricultural schools, agricultural advisory centres. Total expenditure on agriculture, rural development and agricultural markets increases by 11,51% in the Budget Act compared to the current year. High Izbo! We're talking about strict expenditure here. agriculture and the agricultural sector, but at this point we need to talk about the measures it uses and will benefit from the Polish countryside, measures which also have a huge impact on the comfort of life in the countryside, on the development of agricultural environments. It's a good thing you didn't veto the budget, 'cause it wouldn't be. I would also like to say here about the measures that are transferred to voluntary firefighters, rural housewives' circles, the Self-Government Road Fund. All these activities are, of course, carried out outside the Ministry of Agriculture, but have a huge, significant impact on rural life. Recently - and it is worth saying this in the context of the budget law - the Ministry of Agriculture has introduced a program: a computer for the family. This is important help, especially during the COVID pandemic. This programme will soon be implemented. Recruitment is run by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. We also support pig producers. This programme is also being implemented at the moment. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also worth mentioning that measures such as funds from the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund also go to the village. These are pension increases, 13 pensions, but also support for agricultural families during the pandemic. Parents taking care of young children receive support from the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund, which has never happened before. In addition to actions targeted strictly on agriculture, as we can see, support is much, much wider and a huge stream of money affects farmers. I have not yet mentioned COVID's aid, which also goes to farmers within individual shields. Recently there is a call (the bell) for this and in this program. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll answer the rest of the questions in writing. I ask you to understand your fellow Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u136	Thank you very much, Minister. Another person answering questions is Sebastian Skuza, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u137	Dear Marshal, High Seym! I will try to answer your questions collectively. A lot of questions were about the local investment fund. I would like to point out that the state only referred to the part of the division of more than 4 billion, which was divided by an inter-ministerial team... [[Game in the O.R.]] My fellow Members, can you please talk a little quieter? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Hey, buddy, can you please turn the conversation down? Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: However, I would like to draw attention to the following: that under the first shield for local government 6 billion were divided algorithmically for municipalities and districts and I must say that I remember the votes from the election campaign that it was also criticized because the government gives empty promises that it gives checks without coverage. These funds went to all municipalities and districts. And 4 billion can be distributed on a party basis? There was also a question about issues related to non-extinguishable expenditure. We are working on a regulation of the Council of Ministers and by the end of this month this regulation will be issued. [[Game in the O.R.]] I would like to ask you to stop talking and to allow the Minister to respond. The Member started it first. As in kindergarten, the Member started first. Exactly. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: As regards the question of the Reading Programme, I would like to assure you that the funds for this programme are provided in the budgetary provisions, because this programme has been temporary, expired, will now continue, but these measures are provided. With regard to local government units and their income, I draw attention to the increase in total subsidies up to over 70 billion, i.e. by more than 5%, including so-called subsidies. The educational part is over 2.2 billion. There was also a question of the lack of funds for the 13th pension. I'm gonna have to make a point here. These measures will be provided and the payment of the 13th pension is not in debt. A debt, a debt. As regards taxes and charges, I would point out that Estonian CIT is a system-based pro-investment solution. We estimate even tax losses in the public finance sector... What's the balance sheet? ...in the amount of PLN 4,5 billion. There was also talk of the so-called. the sugar levy. Minister Gadomski has already explained that it is linked to health issues. Part of this fee will go to the National Health Fund and part will go to local government units. With regard to salaries, I would like to say that as far as public administration is concerned, the budget is frozen in this case for 2021. However, the lowest remuneration is to increase from PLN 2,600 to PLN 2,800. Here there was a dispute between the trade union side and the employer side and such a compromise was accepted. In terms of sovereign public debt, I can already say today that our latest estimates show that the general government debt, i.e. the EU, will not exceed 60% this year. GDP. We estimate it in the amount of approx. 58% GDP. The European Commission is even more favorable by 1 percentage point and concludes that for the time being this relationship will be around 57% GDP. Are you talking about this year or next year? I'm talking about this year, which is 2020. But we're talking about next year's budget. Madam President, I ask you to allow the Minister to respond and, if necessary, the Member will be able to comment further. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: There was also a question about the VAT gap. I would like to point out that this calculation of time was probably based on previous VAT data. I can say that the revenue from the tax on goods and services, as regards September, October and November, was much greater than our expectations, and I can say that the revenue from the tax on goods and services will be much greater than those (the bell) which were recorded in the amendment of the budget law. If I didn't run out of answers to all the questions... Janoskove, Minister. I would also like to say that there is a working group working within the Joint Government and Territorial Government Commission. We are not thinking about total Janosik liquidation, but we are thinking about a solution that would allow it to flatten, i.e. I want Janosik's deposit to be stable and countercyclical. We are working on this, we have preliminary assumptions, as I remember, the band will have another meeting on December 21st, which means we are moving relatively quickly. Thank you very much. And since when did you change?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u138	Thank you very much, Minister. Corrigendum. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u139	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! You didn't understand what I was talking about. It is not so - and you know it - that VAT revenues higher than you assumed in the amendment translate into a reduction of the VAT gap. I'm referring to the VAT gap. You know very well that this year there will be a gassing and next year there will be a gassing of 10 billion PLN. And one more thing. You boasted here that the European Commission estimates that this year our debt will not exceed 60% according to their methodology, but you didn't answer my question about inflation. 'Cause your MF geniuses thought inflation was good, 'cause it was quicker to get out of debt. So, snuff nose or nose snuff, Minister? Because if you manipulate inflation to lower your public debt to GDP, the poorest Poles pay for it, as you know. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And you didn't say anything about interest rates and high inflation. I said: European interest rates, Polish inflation, you did not refer to this at all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u140	Thank you very much. Perhaps there will be an opportunity for this to be heard by Henryk Kowalczyk, the rapporteur of the committee, whom I invite very warmly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u141	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, there were many voices in the debate on the budget, perhaps entirely unnecessary and resulting from a misunderstanding of the budget. Because if someone is questioning the facts that are for the opposition can be uncomfortable - that actually public debt after 2020 will not have 60% Only less, and probably the opposition would want it to be bigger - these are uncomfortable facts, but the facts and the discussion are not really worth discussing. I would suggest that the budget discussion should not run in password by throwing epithets. Because it would be possible to recall epithets that rained, what vermin we are, losers, etc. I'm not gonna say it again. However, it is worth noting once again that this budget is constructed in an exceptional situation, in a crisis that the world has not seen, that is the truth, and that it is so constructed that it is of such a relatively low level of deficit and debt level, demonstrates the really great responsibility and success of this government. I'll remind you that under the Platform's rule... 400 billion in two years isn't enough? Madame, you have had the opportunity to express yourself in addition. ...and the PSL really went up to tens of billions every year and there was no such crisis. It was your colleague, Prof. Balcerowicz, who installed the public debt counter in the centre of Warsaw, that was the time of the crisis. Of course, saving ourselves from the constitutional threshold consisted in privatising or expropriating 150 billion of OFE. Ofe. I advise you to remember all this. But the Member doesn't say anything. On the other hand, this year there will be an increase in debt, because there is a huge crisis, because it is necessary to save entrepreneurs - and it is very effective, because unemployment has hardly increased. We are one of the most successful countries to save the economy, businesses and at the same time to behave responsibly in the area of public finances. What are you saying? These are uncomfortable truths, so he's waving his hand at it, trying to get away with it. But those are the facts and these facts are hard to deny. In conclusion, I think that as regards the work on the budget within the Committee on Public Finance, the discussion on the budget was substantive, for which I would like to thank the Members, while the number of amendments tabled does not allow for a substantive discussion, which is why I appeal, although this call is obviously already late... Several hundred amendments were tabled in the second reading, so it is hard to imagine that there will be the possibility of a full, substantive discussion of each of them. I take it a little bit as if a substantive debate on the budget was prevented. A few hundred amendments really won't scream this budget, but they won't get the chance... Indeed, if the amendments were substantive, there were dozens or dozens of them, they could be considered. However, the lack of this responsibility both during the committee's work on the number of amendments, and unfortunately today, during the second reading... But we made 13. I'm not looking at the Civic Platform Club. Here full respect, indeed your amendments are dozens and they are thought through. We'll discuss them. But unfortunately there are clubs that have made a few hundred of these amendments. So, unfortunately, we have a very difficult, long work to do to ensure that this budget is adopted. This really is a very good and responsible budget for difficult times. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Very bad, but we'll work for the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u142	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, a motion for rejection and amendments was submitted to the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on strategic reserves (print No. 829). I would like to ask the Undersecretary of State in the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Rafał Siemianowski to present the justification for the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House a draft law on strategic reserves. The current Strategic Reserves Act does not contain a sufficient level of regulation allowing rapid and efficient response in the area of strategic reserves in the context of dynamic crisis developments, both inside and outside the country. The COVID-19 Pandemic indicated the need for new legal solutions. These changes, from the process of creating strategic reserves both within and outside the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme, through the Agency's tasks and funding, to issues related to the distribution of reserves, are determined by the urgent need for better and more efficient response to threats, especially those that are difficult to predict and in the short term and in the long term. At present, provisioning and provisioning are only made on the basis of decisions by central government authorities. This causes among others. an extension of processes which, even from one hour to another, may be required in certain crisis situations. The Material Reserve Agency does not participate in the creation of the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme. Other downstream crisis management units are also lacking in this process, i.e. The Government Security Centre and other government administrations and services, inspections and other bodies carrying out State security and defence tasks, crisis management and protection of critical infrastructure, security, order and public health, including those carrying out the supervision of the performance of those tasks by economic operators under the laws. No voice mentioned above. units in the planning and programming process lead to insufficient clarification of the needs as to the extent and quantity of the strategic reserves held. Another important problem under the current rules is the lack of appropriate tools in the current legal state to enable the Agency to distribute its reserves widely so that it can reach its final customers quickly and efficiently with the logistical resources at its disposal. The process of making the strategic reserves available to the final customer is complex and multidimensional. In accordance with the rules, recipients must organise transport themselves, which significantly impedes the efficient use of the reserves made available. The current legal situation also limits the possibility of using resources that constitute strategic reserves that can be recovered effectively, so as to reduce the cost of maintaining them and to carry out social important tasks at a time when there is no crisis. High Izbo! Under the new Strategic Reserves Act, the strategic reserve system will be substantially rebuilt. The aim of this change will be to protect the Republic of Poland and its citizens more effectively in the event of risks which may cause disruptions in the supply and demand of certain goods and goods on the market, and thus - negative consequences for the security of the state, including for the life and health of citizens. Given the need to simplify procedures and, consequently, to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of the activities of the Material Reserve Agency, new legal institutions will be introduced to ensure that these objectives are achieved and others will be substantially modified. The President of the Council of Ministers will become a body directly overseeing the system of strategic reserves, which will allow for the most effective management of them. This is justified because even in the existing reserve system there are goods from the area of competence of the various departments of government. Consequently, given the role and role of the Agency in the crisis management system, it will be supervised by the President of the Council of Ministers. The process of creating strategic reserves under the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme will be improved, as well as their storage in order to better meet the security needs of the Republic of Poland. To this end, the scope of the tasks for which strategic reserves are set up has been extended. New legal institutions have been set up, first of all, to make specialised medical equipment and specialised technical equipment available, whether paid or free of charge, in order to increase the efficiency of the use of the reserve range, in particular to optimise the costs of maintaining reserves and to adequately support the achievement of the objective of health or social protection, and second, to maintain strategic reserves on the basis of new types of so-called contracts. to remain prepared to be concluded by the Agency with specific actors for maintaining capacity or contracts to be prepared to provide specific services for strategic reserves, thereby ensuring greater availability of reserves and reducing problems with supply chain disruptions in the event of a crisis. The range and quantity of reserves will be defined, as has been the case so far, by the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme, which will be drawn up by the President of the Council of Ministers in cooperation with the Agency for a period of 5 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The draft law extends the scope of tasks to support the implementation of which strategic reserves are created. The tasks related to the implementation of the national interests of the Republic of Poland and to the provision of assistance and support to entities governed by public international law have been added. The extension of the objective of international reserves to bodies governed by public international law will allow support not only for countries but also for international organisations. In this way, the effect of flexibility in the provision of international assistance by Poland will be achieved. The Agency's existing tasks will be maintained while significantly expanding its catalogue. Firstly, new tasks will be put in place for agencies to organise services, including transport and logistics services for their own benefit, and for other bodies or bodies carrying out activities to support State security and defence tasks, to restore critical infrastructure, to mitigate disruptions in the continuity of supply for the functioning of the economy and to meet the basic needs of citizens, to save their lives and health, to fulfil international obligations and to pursue national interests, and to assist and support other countries and international organisations. The aim of the Agency's new competence is to make it more involved in the process of providing strategic reserves and making greater use of resources, including human resources, and to improve the efficiency of the process of making available assortments, including in particular reducing the delivery time to the final customer. Another new task is to manage immovable property owned or held by the Agency or to provide other services related to the management of immovable property. The purpose of this competence is to optimise the use of real estate owned by the Agency, the possibility of obtaining additional funding for the Agency's tasks and its operation as a result of the efficient use of such immovable property. In cases where the Agency does not use strategic reserves to store reserves in them, it is possible to use them for commercial purposes through lease or lease contracts. The project streamlines and optimizes the decommissioning of reserves, i.e. extends the ways in which the reserves are wound up and extends the catalogue of entities to which the Agency will be free of charge to transfer the assortment of depreciated reserves. They will be entities whose statutory objectives justify the decision to transfer free of charge. Such a solution will provide the opportunity to support actors pursuing important social objectives justifying free transfer. Together with the new law, a change in the name of the agency will be introduced. The current name of the Material Reserve Agency will replace the name of the Government Strategic Reserve Agency. The change of name is not only a semantic procedure, but it is intended to reflect the actual scope of the agency's tasks and competences. One of the objectives of the Act is to amend the rules governing employment in the Agency. The draft law raises the level of professional experience requirements for candidates for employment as president and deputy president of the agency. In accordance with the proposed regulations, such person must have at least 10 years' working experience, including at least 5 years' working in a managerial capacity, regardless of other requirements. The legal form of the agency does not change. The Government's Strategic Reserve Agency is to remain an executive agency within the meaning of the Public Finance Act. High Izbo! The draft law on strategic reserves submitted by the Council of Ministers to the High Sejm is in line with the state's overall policy, which draws lessons from the crisis situation, especially from our ongoing joint fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus. I hope that the changes contained in the draft and the new solutions will provide significant support and facilitation in the functioning of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency and will thus be part of the process of changes in the crisis management system of the Polish state. I kindly ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to adopt the proposed bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u144	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I ask Mr Rafał Bochenk, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. I can't see. I therefore invite Mr Sławomir Neumann, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! What conclusions have you drawn from the fight against the coronavirus? You're making a bill to correct the chaos and mess that's in the Material Reserve Agency today, but you're introducing even more chaos with this bill. To begin with, just one question related to the coronavirus: How long until today has the Material Reserve Agency purchased refrigerators that could store these Pfizer vaccines? The number of press conferences of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Health, a few ministers of the Prime Minister's law firm were countless, and they talked about how we would be prepared for vaccination. I have a question: did the agency, which should be responsible for preparing all this infrastructure, buy one such refrigerator to pass it to a small clinic in the country so that people, Poles, could be vaccinated there? Instead, are you just preparing a bill that's going to change the name of an agency that hasn't been able to handle a difficult situation? What's the hurry? What's the point right now? What's the point of fighting a coronavirus when you knew you couldn't handle it? The agency failed in February or March to prepare for Coronavirus, even though the world already knew about it. Although shopping was done in many countries, we did not do it in Poland. Then came the summer months. The Prime Minister announced victory against the epidemic. We didn't buy anything again. Again, it turned out that the agency was unnecessary because the prime minister ordered the purchase of masks, ventilators or other equipment for companies of the Treasury. Why such an agency? Then the prime minister greeted the big plane that flew in with equipment that wasn't suitable. Today you want to turn this agency into an agency subordinate to the Prime Minister, as if the Prime Minister hadn't made a decision so far, as if the Prime Minister hadn't appeared in the agency's warehouses, against the background of the boxes and cartons being moved, showing how well this agency works. But it doesn't work, because there are still no supplies delivered to Polish hospitals or clinics that would protect workers fighting the coronavirus. More than once, the press described how big boxes from the agency go to the clinic, there are three masks per day or one apron, and the ventilators that were delivered to the hospitals turned out to be out of order because some parts were missing. Is the remedy for such action a new law that will introduce an even bigger mess? Is it not because there are simply incompetent people working there who are unable to make rational purchases, unable to make decisions? Isn't it better to correct it from the inside than to change the name or to change the subjection? Don't you draw any conclusions from what you've been doing so far? Do you think that the act adopted as a matter of urgency, without consultation, without any possibility of reference to these records by the persons concerned... And let me remind you that from your own justification, you can see that 15,000 are working with the agency. active counterparties, 84 000. entrepreneurs are involved in the maintenance of strategic reserves, about 1 000. Police units, Border Guard or fire department, plus local governments: voivodships, powiats, communes. No one asked for their opinion, and they're cooperating with you. Why so quickly and why, at a time when there is a crisis and when it is rather necessary to calm down and deal with it in a more organized way, are you still making a change? Didn't they teach you the COVID bill that you corrected the other one because you made these mistakes over and over again? Do you think changing the name of the Material Reserve Agency to a government agency is enough to make it work? Don't you remember what you did to BOR? You changed the Government Protection Bureau bill to change it to the State Protection Service because there were bells on the streets. Less accidents? No, because it's not about the name, it's about the people working there and their skills. The argument behind this centralization, the pulling it all up to the Prime Minister. What's the point of the Prime Minister making decisions today anyway? In February, instead of providing medical care to hospitals, nurses, all the staff, you couldn't do it because the agency was swamped with coal, which, at the request of the government and the prime minister, the agency had to buy, not to create a strategic reserve, just to help the mines. You guys don't even understand what an agency like this is for, and to cover up your own mess, you're making a new bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill is nothing new. She doesn't bring anything but another mess at an agency that can't handle it anymore. I hope that when it comes to these consultations that are missing, the rush that was in the government can be corrected in the Sejm, and at least in the Sejm we will be able to work on it for a while and ask all the stakeholders of this law about their opinion, because you didn't do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u146	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Wiesław Szczepański will present his position. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u147	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Left Club, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law on strategic reserves, contained in print No. 829. The project entered the Sejm on 9 December this year, but no opinions or expertise were attached to the project, and it follows from the justification that the project is not intended to be submitted to public consultations due to the need for urgent procedure in relation to COVID and the urgent need for its adoption. The government's actions, as always, remind me of a fairy tale of ingenious Dobromir, whose ball is flying over his head, thought something, so he came up with an idea, and the government prepared it, and the Sejm must instantly announce it. According to the project, not only the name of the Material Reserve Agency will change, but also the principles of its operation. The possibility of making specialised medical equipment available free of charge or free of charge shall be introduced. As a result of the transformation of the Material Reserve Agency, the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency will now be directly subject to the Prime Minister and not, as previously, to the Minister responsible for Climate Affairs. So the prime minister is building his power - we already have digitization there, now the Material Reserve Agency or today the strategic reserve agency. The proposed law regulates issues relating to the creation, maintenance, provision, exchange, replacement and liquidation of strategic reserves, as well as the principles of their financing. The scope of tasks carried out by the Agency for strategic reserves will also be expanded. The government wants to improve the process of creating and storing strategic reserves so that they are better suited to the needs of the state. The amendment was also proposed as a result of experience with the pandemic of SARS-CoV-2 and the medical assortment that caused it. The lack of protective masks, gloves, ventilators should be given as an example when it was already known that COVID was in China. But I also think about selling the famous masks that the Material Reserve Agency has sold for 10 zlotys and which were then sold several dozen times more expensive. And the translation was that no interim review was carried out in the period from 2018 to 2019 and their warranty was approaching. I'm not talking about a few hundred million zlotys that were drowned in coal today lying on heaps. The draft law contains new legal solutions providing for the possibility of making available specialised medical equipment and specialised technical equipment for payment or free of charge. I think it might also apply to those respirators purchased from an arms dealer who are lying and not being issued today. A new definition is emerging for the specialised medical assortment of strategic reserves. This range includes machines, equipment and other objects used for health protection purposes. According to the Act, the Prime Minister will be entitled to make available to the state organizational units, local government units... [[Game in the O.R.]] Can I ask you to allow me to speak calmly? Your Members are not interested. ...specialized medical equipment forming part of strategic reserves under conditions other than the crisis situation for health-related tasks. This is intended to optimise the cost of maintaining and using these reserves. The Act also provides for the maintenance of strategic reserves on the basis of agreements concluded by agencies to remain ready to maintain production capacity or to provide certain services for strategic reserves. The type and quantity of reserve products will continue to be defined by the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme, which will be developed today by the Prime Minister and the Agency for a period of 5 years. My club is in favour of directing this project to further work in the relevant committee so that we can proceed on it, because it has been five days since the project's impact on the Sejm. Today, however, we simply know that this law also shows that for a period of 10 years there will be an increase in costs in the agency by PLN 350 million. This is both staff growth and reserve-related growth. We would like to know what is the reason for both personal and cost growth. I hope that all these issues will be cleared up in committee and that we will only decide after the committee's work how the left club will vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u148	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, will now take the floor. Then we will ask Mr Rafał Bochenk to speak. And later, also in remote mode, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke will present the position of the Confederation's Circle of Posel. So now we ask Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u149	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to speak on behalf of the Coalition Poland club regarding the presented Act on the Agency for Material Reserves, called the Government, in a new version of the Agency for Strategic Reserves. Changing the name and changing many records in this current act is of great concern, because we have so far had unpleasant experience of the spring of last year, when the agency could not cope with the purchase, and in the background there were all these events related to the purchase of masks or ventilators, and to this day there are problems with clearing all this up. I'm afraid a change, such a quick change, because in express mode, this very important act, may be aimed at hiding it somewhere and causing that no one will come forward with the irregularities that have occurred. I remind you that they purchased ventilators without instructions, without the ability to function that lie somewhere. How, who was it bought from? Those masks aren't approved either. I also wonder why change in such a difficult time. Every change requires a reshuffle, a shift of officials. Because these are not only changes of stamps, but also (Distortion of receipt) the prime minister takes care of, as if he had not enough work, yet the Agency for Strategic Reserves, so far the Agency for Material Reserves. I think that the removal of the obligation and the giving of great freedom, because this law gives the agency quite ample freedom in terms of public procurement, the observance of all the rules relating to purchasing, as well as the disposal of the materials collected, the conclusion of contracts with entities to store these reserves, is also a concern to us. So far, we've had examples of corrupt activities appearing somewhere in the background. On the other hand, in the case of even greater freedom, people employed there are required to have a great deal of responsibility, and they have great confidence, because they are not under the control of the ordinary official in the administration who carries out public procurement. Another thing that deprives us of control in a sense is that many purchases are covered by a secret. We can't find out in the Seym, e.g. How much coal was purchased - what my predecessor said - for supplies of the Material Reserve Agency. I asked several times in the Seym how much coal was there, what coal was bought for, because coal was abundant, and until today nobody in Poland can know in open mode how much coal was purchased. So that's an important thing, and I'm surprised, Marshal, that your marshal allowed in such an urgent manner to proceed over this bill. Because I don't see any sense here and no need to rush and yet in this sitting, because that's what I hear, the temptations, the passing of this bill. The committee's meeting tomorrow, and we're gonna vote this bill tonight. This is ridiculous. We meet with such phenomena on a daily basis. At the moment, there is a debate at the meeting of the Energy Commission and the State Treasury in the field of wind farms. This is also a law that appeared two days ago in the Seym, and today we are proceeding over it, there is a second reading and we are to praise it at this meeting of the Seym. Therefore, the Polish Coalition will look very carefully at all these records. We will want to analyse this in order to have full transparency and insight into what you are doing with the Material Reserve Agency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, for the needs of the Material Reserve Agency, you can buy virtually anything. It's not what it used to be. Experience and life have shown us that the agency must have a very flexible approach and have good discernment. Swoboda is therefore very large. Our concern is that there may be phenomena that we do not want to hear about, the consequences that took place during the spring period. Thank you, Marshal, and thank you, High Izbo, for listening.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u150	Thank you very much, sir. We now ask Mr Rafał Bochenk, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u151	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The current Strategic Reserves Act does not contain a sufficient level of regulation allowing rapid and efficient response in the area of strategic reserves to dynamic crisis developments both within and outside the country. An example of the COVID-19 pandemic and its medical assortment shortages is one of the reasons why new legal solutions need to be introduced in the area of organisation, tasks and procedures for the creation and distribution of reserves of the Material Reserve Agency. The aim of the changes is to protect the Republic of Poland and its citizens more effectively in the event of risks which may cause disruptions in supply and demand for certain goods and goods on the market, and thus adverse consequences for the security of the state, including for the life and health of citizens. The aim of this law is to simplify or, in some situations, make procedures more flexible, based on which the Material Reserve Agency operates. The proposed law primarily regulates issues relating to the creation, maintenance, provision, exchange, replacement and liquidation of strategic reserves, as well as the principles of their financing. The scope of tasks carried out by the Agency for Material Reserves is also expanded, which under this law changes its name to: Government Agency for Strategic Reserves. This legal act extends the scope of tasks for which strategic reserves are created and extends the catalogue of assortment necessary to achieve the objectives set out in Article. 3 of this law, which will better respond to a rapidly changing socio-economic and political environment. One of the most important changes concerns the supervisory authority to which the President of the Council of Ministers is appointed under this Act, which seems justified because it is the Prime Minister who is the central coordinator of crisis management, while at the same time being the Chairman of the Government's Crisis Management Team. The Prime Minister will also be the authority responsible for issuing decisions on the provision of reserves. The President of the Council of Ministers will also gain creative powers towards the agencies, i.e. the appointment of its management, its presidents, its alternates and the appointment of its statutes. The Act in the process of planning and programming resources provides for the inclusion of new conditions, such as the assessment of risks to national security and the national interests of the Republic of Poland. A number of provisions contained in the project allow the agency to act more quickly and efficiently, including: by cancelling purchasing procedures or rules for the creation of reserves or for the conclusion of contracts relating to the storage of reserves, but always by applying transparent, non-discriminatory and competitive conditions for the selection of counterparties. This will work especially in emergency and crisis situations. A new statutory institution is also the possibility for the Agency to maintain reserves in the form of contracts to remain ready to provide services. The extensive possibilities for the liquidation of the accumulated reserves of the Government's Material Reserve Agency gives chapter 5 of the Act, introducing other forms from the previously known sales of the wound-up reserves through auctions or on the stock exchange, as well as e.g. free of charge transfer to non-governmental organisations. The Act extends the Agency's tasks to new areas, in particular transport and logistics services, as well as tasks related to the management of real estate in which the Agency owns or is in its possession, which will contribute to greater operational efficiency and efficiency of its activities. The project also regulates the catalogue of persons covered by the activity limitation obligations, which is particularly important in the context of the arguments raised here by my previous speaker as regards certain supervision, transparency and transparency of the agency. These employees, their expanded circle in relation to the circle that has been set out so far, will be obliged to make periodic statements on their assets, which will ensure greater transparency of the operation. This will also safeguard the interest of the Treasury. The funding of the Agency will remain a subsidy from the State budget as well as revenues from the services provided by the Agency on a market basis. The adoption of this law is most appropriate, especially in the face of the epidemics we are facing so far and the need to ensure security for all citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u152	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke will now speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle in remote mode. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If there are different actions of governments, we believe that the government is unnecessarily interfering with the economy. This reserve is in principle the only government activity that belongs to the government, and the State should have it. That is why we are paying great attention to this law. We don't want to criticize too many little things. It is very right that the law states that the President of the Council of Ministers takes over the care of the reserve fund personally. Then I have a question. If part of the agency's tasks is taken over by the President of the Council of Ministers, why are we increasing the Agency's budget? The Agency's budget should be reduced at this point, and some may be transferred to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. By the way, I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have no government in Poland, but we have the Council of Ministers, which is the third House of Parliament elected in the indirect elections. We have quite strange findings, namely that some reserves can be transferred to help international organisations. This could be some form of silent transfer of sums that we're supposed to pass on e.g. The European Union, and it cannot be passed on in any other way. The fourth point, the fourth attribute, was the extension of the product range. This is, of course, a good point, but this also creates the possibility of abuse, because it is not exactly defined, which is understood by extending the range. I draw attention to the article. 13 and Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, Namely, they predict that the government will have to do something under this very act on material reserves, ad hoc, taking money, taking materials (Distortion of receipt) It is completely contradictory. The Material Reserves Act provides that there is a reserve and if there is a disaster, the government does nothing because there is a reserve. So getting raped in the event of a disaster is completely contrary to the idea of this bill. Of course, art is right. 16 and Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms A very important point is art. 18, which extends reserve resources to the willingness to spread services, so it is. The willingness to provide services is also a reserve and, of course, it must be paid. Art. 19 and Article 19 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No This, of course, creates great opportunities again. I understand that the opposition here will be very vigilant - the left-wing opposition, the one from the PO and the Left - looked at the government's feet because she is sitting on this committee. Thank you for the moment. My friend Dziambor has a few more words to add.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u154	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor continues to present the position of the Confederation's Circle of Members on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u155	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! First of all, I wanted to say that of course we all had quite a difficult time, and I heard here from this speaker about transparency of action. As far as transparency is concerned, I would like to say that we still do not know what the situation with ventilators really looked like, what the situation with masks was like. We still don't know that. And we don't really know how much money you make in this agency. At this point, there are about 700 people employed there. Of course, it's going into billions to keep it going, but I'm not denying it. Worse, as I read, there will be an additional 25 or 30 jobs to be co-opted for restructuring. This means an increase in employment by around 5% and cost between PLN 2.3 million and PLN 2.5 million a year to keep it going. It's generating more costs. Instead of saving up, and instead of going into a direction that's always propagandized in election campaigns... It's said that we'll be saving up and looking for these savings. Of course, that's what we normally miss. Of course, we do not deny that there will be any cost of changing the sign. Changing the sign is part of external marketing. It's just that it's going to be clear now that it's a government agency. The Prime Minister oversees this. I do not see any involvement of any private body here, but there is no focus here on providing some services. It's a bit of a pity. Unfortunately, there is no attention here either. This is of course needed, this is necessary - as President Korwin-Mikke said - but I would also like to see cooperation with the private sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, a non-attached Member, to present her position.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u157	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Whatever the name and management are. The most important thing in this law is what you have done with the Public Procurement Law, or actually excluding from the Public Procurement Law. Art. 13, Art. 16, Art. 18, Art. 29 and Article 29 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 60 contain provisions that are incompatible with Directive 2014/25/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council, as well as with the existing Public Procurement Law in Poland, both those that are in force today and the new ones that will apply from January. At least in the article. 13 taken out from under point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. the cases are secured by the application of transparent, non-discriminatory, competitive conditions for the selection of the seller, but it is worth noting that immediately after the paragraph. paragraph 5 shall be replaced by the following: 6, in which you state that, in exceptional circumstances, any competitiveness can be completely excluded, any guarantee of the security of personal data and classified information, any negotiation and any transmission of queries. These situations are e.g. as broad concepts as a threat to public order or a crisis situation. I apologise very much, and the EU directives, and our Public Procurement Law make it very clear that the catalogue of exemptions from public procurement law must be very clear. You are violating the public good in this way, and I ask you very much to consider whether this is really going to be the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u158	Thank you very much, Member. At this end we have concluded the speeches of the clubs, the circles and the Member who represented her position. I would like to inform you that 10 of your fellow Members have signed up for questions. If there are no more volunteers, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will be asked as the first question. There isn't. In that case, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. There isn't. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u159	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! It must be made clear that this bill is another vote of distrust towards Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, who oversees the Material Reserve Agency and is unable to cope with this situation today, and we have had many examples in recent times that he is unable to do so. I have a question for you: The Government's Strategic Reserve Programme is set every five years. Today, too, we have an established year of operation. I wanted to ask you: will the Prime Minister re-create this programme, since and when will this programme enter into force? Will the programme that is currently in operation continue? Another question: How much will it cost to enter into force of this law? Because apart from changing the name of the agency, there are additional jobs and indeed the whole structure will change, which will also cost. Another question. There are similar agencies in the European Union that deal with [[♪ The bell ♪]] matters that are written down in the strategy. I wanted to ask: In how many EU countries does the head of government directly supervise similar agencies? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u160	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Dariusz Evening to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u161	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this law introduced at such a rate shows that the pandemic has shown that something is not working as regards the currently functioning Material Reserve Agency. Of course, you have the right to make such changes, but my question is this: Will this change, this draft law introduced at this rate, be reflected in the draft budget for 2021? Question two: How do you imagine the functioning of a new form of government agency supervised by the Prime Minister in individual voivodships? Will this agency have its departments, or will the voivode be responsible for the functioning of these units in each voivodship? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u162	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow. Hey, I think it's Thomas Piotr Nowak first, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u163	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! In the event of a crisis, as we hear, the Agency may act in a non-formal manner, disregarding the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, by requiring the use of transparent, transparent, non-discriminatory and competitive conditions for the selection of sellers. Tell me who says there's a crisis. In the case of COVID laws, we must create laws related to the COVID crisis, unless there is a state of emergency, these three states set out in the Constitution. So will the President of the Council of Ministers say ad hoc : Mr. President of the government agency, we have a crisis, we are acting in a deformed way, whether we will have to meet here in the Sejm, and the Sejm will accept every 5 years activity report [[♪ The bell ♪]] Agency? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u164	Thank you. Now we ask Mrs Zofia Czernow.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u165	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important bill and there is a need for caution, it is necessary to examine why the agency failed to fulfil its tasks during such a difficult period of pandemic. The huge mess at the agency caused the agency not to respond to what it should react to. Examples: great sales in February this year masks for pennies and in a few months purchase for large money defective masks that could not be used. It's a ventilator case. The Prime Minister keeps saying there's a lot of ventilators, and hospitals can't get them. I therefore believe that the law should be consulted with entrepreneurs who are to cooperate with the Agency. [[♪ The bell ♪]] and for let it produce, and it requires discussion, not quick proceding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u166	Thank you very much, Member. The question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u167	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! So far, the agency - that's why we have such problems with the Agency for Material Reserves - Law and Justice used to carry out its dark political interests, e.g. Buying trade union support. That's what the agency was for. When the equipment was bought, it was like with the ventilators: you needed a technician from the company that sold those ventilators, and extra parts that nobody knew about. Therefore, the change in the name of the agency, and the PiS generally enjoys changing the names of public institutions, simply will not bring anything. I have a very specific question: How does the Ministry, the government of this project intend to ensure that this equipment, which will be stored at the agency's disposal, will be operational and operational immediately? It's not like you and the agency are doing right now. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You need a technique, you need an extra connector, but how will the state guarantee that you won't have to wait a week to start some kind of reserve? Because in a situation where reserves need to be activated, there's usually no time to wait for technicians, for an organization. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u168	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Konrad Frysztak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, you mix and you can only mix. You mix names, mix different laws, but really nothing comes from this mixing in these agencies. Except that there are invoices for products that are either unfit for use, see masks, or they're not, see ventilators. I would like to ask you a specific question: How will your bill affect the fact that certified masks will actually arrive at the Radom Emergency Station? I would like to inform you that the Radom emergency services have received, attention, a dozen or so of the masks that have appropriate certificates. So I ask: How do you want to guarantee that this law, including the change in the name of this agency, will cause the stream of products necessary to fight the coronavirus to flow? Because that's what's important today. And in the future: How is this law to guarantee, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you think we'll be ready for any other threats our country may be facing? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u170	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Neumann, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two questions at the end: Why so quickly? Why are you guys doing this on a date like this? The point is that actually today we have the first reading, tomorrow the committee, the second reading, and we want to adopt this law at this session of the Sejm. And second question. Taking over everything by the Prime Minister, actually the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, combined with excluding the act of the Public Procurement Act, asks the question: Is it that suddenly you have to do some shopping and you have to do it to people from KPRM, from the environment of the Prime Minister, don't believe various friends of the skier from the Ministry of Health anymore? Is that the main reason? Why in the first place, if you have the possibility to purchase outside the Public Procurement Act in the COVID Act, do you permanently enter those provisions excluding the Public Procurement Act? What's the reason? What's the point? Because it's certainly not any sort of lightening of the situation, [[♪ The bell ♪]] any transparency. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u172	Thank you very much. Is Mr Artur Łącki in the room? I'm here, I'm here. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u173	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, this is the next law that should not be in this Chamber now and at this time. This is the next bill you put in on Monday, Tuesday you want to go to committee with her, Wednesday there will be a second reading, and Thursday or Wednesday night there will be a vote. This is, gentlemen and ladies, a manifest ruin of the law. This is, ladies and gentlemen, spoiling the country. You can't do that. That's what the Sejm is for, so that laws of this type are processed according to all the persecutions. For this there are committees which should - all - look at this law. You should take that bill off the table and not try it that way. Unless the amendment of this bill is to hide the scandals that you've caused, the purchases of ventilators, masks. Then I understand you have to push her through with your knee. Isn't it a coincidence, Minister, that you want to hide the construction scandals on the occasion of the amendment of this bill? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The National Hospital that's probably gonna leave? Because that's where you started doing it. You spend your money without any supervision and no sense at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u174	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u175	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, every state institution has the right to change its organisational form of action, to change its names, but it is a good habit to close cases that raise doubts about the activities of that institution. Taking this opportunity, I would like to ask and ask for a written reply to the following questions: How many proceedings have been initiated against the Agency recently? Are these prosecution proceedings or some institution that deals with illegal activity or suspicion of corruption? What kind of cases are being handled, and how much? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u176	Thank you very much. I ask Mr Mark Rutka, the Left, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u177	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The contested bill was created without public consultation, but it is nothing unusual, it is a common practice of the Government of the United Right. However, the bill concerns a very important problem for the security of the state, such as material security, not only in the case of pandemics, but also in the case of natural disasters, such as floods or storms. Uninvitation to work on a law of experienced state security specialists who are ready to cooperate in many NGOs cannot be explained by the rapid pace of work. However, I do not want to completely criticise this project and I welcome the submission of the agency directly to the Prime Minister. In some ways, the name will change from the Material Reserve Agency to the Government Strategic Reserve Agency. I have a question about the cost of this operation, the exchange of signposts in 13 regional syntaxes in the country, hundreds of stamps, prints, etc. In the face of an expensive pandemic, did you change your name [[♪ The bell ♪]] is it really, really necessary? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u178	Thank you very much. On this, the list of Members entered for the task of the question has been exhausted. The questions that were previously asked will be answered by Mr Rafał Siemianowski, Undersecretary of State at the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u179	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will try to address the issues raised by you in the course of your questioning and may put them together on a number of key issues. As far as the law is concerned, I would like to stress that the government has drawn up a new law which is to regulate the functioning of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency in a comprehensive and systematic manner. These solutions are primarily based on the lessons that the government has learned from its previous experience in the fight against the epidemic of Coronavirus. As far as the bill is concerned, of course we want it to enter into force as quickly as possible, because we may have to face a third wave of epidemics, and we believe that these good solutions will facilitate the fight against the epidemic. With regard to the transfer of supervision to the President of the Council of Ministers, I would like to inform you here that the Minister responsible for Energy, Mr Kurtyka, is currently supervising the Agency. Yes. As regards the mere transition of the Agency to the supervision of the President of the Council of Ministers, this is because this area requires special coordination. This involves, for example, the fact that there are various reserves within the Agency, so-called. technical reserves, medical reserves or food reserves. In addition, the President of the Council of Ministers, as a constitutional body, oversees the Government Security Centre, presides over the Government's Crisis Management Team, and these are the arguments that speak for the transfer of the agency to the head of government. This seems to be fully justified. There was a question about the increase in employment in the agency. Indeed, such growth is anticipated. It will relate primarily to the new tasks assigned to the agencies in the field of logistics and transport services. To date, one of the main problems with the Agency's tasks was that the Agency could not provide such services, which often delayed the provision of adequate resources to the recipients. At the moment, this task will be clearly defined in the Act and will entail an increase in employment. As regards the transfer of reserve resources to international organisations, this is where I wanted to explain the intention. There are situations where the agency's resources are e.g. equipment that runs out of resurs and which with a high probability we will not be able to use for our country's needs. Then it seems perfectly justified that there is a legal basis for providing such resources to international organisations providing humanitarian aid in regions or in countries affected by disasters. As regards the issues of secrecy, I would like to point out that the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme is indeed secretive, but such solutions have also been in place so far and have resulted from the existing rules. This is mainly linked to ensuring security in key segments of the functioning of the State. With regard to the agency's activities, which is no longer directly linked to the Act, since spring, since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Material Reserve Agency has, of course, been purchasing materials for the fight against the pandemic: personal protective equipment, disinfectants, medical equipment. As far as this law is concerned, the issue of field work has also been raised. The Act does not provide for the creation of field branches, while in the field there are syntaxes and they will continue to operate. On the other hand, the existence of the field units themselves, which were essentially engaged - still two branches - or are performing control functions seems unjustified. As regards the installation of the equipment provided by the Agency, it must be borne in mind here that the Agency does not have, could not have, powers to modify the requirements for the installation of the equipment imposed by their manufacturer. If the manufacturer is concerned about the safety of the equipment and clearly and precisely determines the requirements that must be met at its installation, it is difficult to require that the Agency can modify them. With regard to public procurement rules, it is worth noting here that Article. 13 of the proposed law speaks of the situation (the bell) when there has already been a threat of security or defence of the state, order, public health or a natural disaster, so we are not talking about a hypothetical event, we are talking about an event that has already happened. The inclusion of public procurement rules is done here in order to be able to respond properly to such extraordinary situations. As far as it is concerned, the President of the Council of Ministers will have the power to issue a decision on the creation of reserves outside the Government's Strategic Reserve Programme and will be indicated there that there has been a threat referred to in Article. 13th draft law. Of course, those answers that you have requested will be given in writing. It seems to me that this is how I dealt with the most important issues you have raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u180	Thank you, Minister. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, who thought he had been misunderstood.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u181	Yes. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, the question arises as to whether you did not understand or understand anything about this crisis that is taking place. I asked how you would ensure technical competence that would enable this equipment to be launched. What you did to the ventilators... I'm already ignoring the arms dealer, but those ventilators that were in the state, you delivered them and they were standing, because there was no technical competence to launch them. And when there's a crisis, those competences are essential. You can't wait for one week or two weeks until the tech calls, he picks up, sets a deadline in three weeks, because then there's mustard after dinner. Question: "What do you understand from this crisis?" 'Cause I don't think so. This answer shows that you have completely understood nothing. How will the State provide technical competence to launch these facilities at your disposal? I ask for a competent, concrete reply in writing. It is about how the state will implement it in a systematic manner. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because today I see that it's still like this: we unfold our hands and nothing depends on us. The question arises as to whether or not you will continue to sit on ministerial stools and pretend that nothing has happened. Thank you very much. (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u182	Thank you. Will the Minister speak to you?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u183	I would just like to say that I am very pleased that the Member has asked for an answer in writing because I understand the intentions and importance of the problem. So, in order to be honest, we will examine this issue and give the relevant proposals to the Member in writing. So there will be a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u184	The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer the draft law on strategic reserves to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act (Prints Nos 801 and 819). I ask Mr Mark Ast to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law amending the Prison Service Act, 801 and 819 prints. The first reading of the above draft law took place in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 8 December 2020. The Commission, following its first reading and after a detailed examination of the draft law, asks the High House to approve the attached draft law. During the meeting of the Parliamentary Club Committee, Law and Justice tabled an amendment to this draft law, which was accepted by the committee, and in principle two amendments, which fall within one. These are two additional articles, art. Article 2 and Article 2 3. On the part of the opposition Members, they were questioned not because of the substantive content, but because there was concern that they would not exceed the scope of the submission. On the other hand, due to the epidemic, these amendments were necessary and therefore accepted by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u186	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Krzysztof July, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u187	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to present my position on the draft law amending the Prison Service Act, whose title was extended after the first reading carried out in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. The chairman of the committee has said exactly what this law concerns, and that an important aspect of the legislative process is also the fact that the provisions of this law have been extended and also concern the situation of the Prison Service and, in fact, prison hospitals. This is all described in this revision of the COVID Act, but I would like to say what's next when it comes to the legislative process. Well, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to make an amendment to this bill at second reading. The aim of the amendment is above all to clarify the wording contained in the proposal that came out after the first reading of this draft law. The amount of limits that are foreseen by the Polish Government in terms of commutation in the case of Prison Service officers is not changed. They do not change. On the other hand, the amendment relates to the fact that in Article. 72a Law on Prison Service after paragraph. 1. the following paragraph shall be added: 1a, where budget limits will be set for 10 years in terms of the costs foreseen for commuting to Prison Service officers. The second amendment tabled in this law concerns transitional provisions. In fact, it is precisely about determining the date of entry into force of this law. It shall be made clear that the Act shall enter into force 14 days after the date of its publication, except for Article. Point 1 (1). It is about setting limits which will enter into force on 1 January 2022. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to inform the High House that we will support this law together with an amendment that will be examined at third reading and after previous work in the Parliamentary Committee. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'm putting this amendment in your hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u188	Thank you very much. The amendment has been tabled. And the position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Michał Szczerba.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u189	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! There has been some difficulty with this government project, and we really have a problem with the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. Our doubts are not raised by the government project, as it concerns the setting of a limit on the expenditure of the Prison Service for the period 2022 to 2031 for flat-rate travel to the place of service by a Prison Service officer who lives outside the place of duty. On the other hand, High Izbo, we strongly protest against the treatment of government projects as places of input, Members' amendments that go beyond government submission. This is the situation we're dealing with right now. Art. Article 2 and Article 2 In fact, 3 involve medical care for those deprived of freedom. Minister, how did you not prepare a revision of two projects, two laws, namely the law on infectious diseases, the anti-COVID law, just allowing the committee in the report to include an amendment that goes beyond the government submission? Ladies and gentlemen! The epidemic threat, the epidemic has continued in Poland since March this year. These were issues that had to be systematically clarified. It concerns issues related to the organisation, tasks of the medicinal product. It is also a question of the study that was incarcerated before being transported to another penitentiary unit. It is the question of medical advice without contact with the patient, the question of administration of medicines. We've analyzed these rules. They don't raise any direct objections to us. We have examined these provisions, we have also asked the Ombudsman's office for the opinion. On the other hand, we are absolutely opposed to this form of procedure because the Legislative Office at the committee meeting stated that such an add-on could be declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, which will examine these provisions when they will simply be challenged. That is why we are in favour of deleting the article. Article 2 and Article 2 3. We believe that these rules should normally be presented either by a group of Members or by the government. It can't be like we're making a legislative dump. We don't agree to this kind of action. However, we also want to talk about the situation of prison health care, because this is a very important issue. You remember the case that was examined by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in 2018. This issue concerned the death of Ms. Agnieszka Pysz in an investigative arrest in Grochov in Warsaw. The situation was as follows. Then you apologized for her, Mr. Patrick. What's the mother of a detained, incarcerated person? Namely, prison doctors claimed that the prisoner simulates. The result of this simulation was death. She simply wasn't given adequate medical attention. The case came out thanks to the inmates who sent a letter outside the arrest. These situations shouldn't be happening. We would like to ask, Minister, on the occasion of the preparation of the penitentiary units in an epidemic state. How many PCR tests and how many antigen tests have been used? How many prisoners have been examined since September, I'm sorry, since March in our country the state of the epidemic? Finally, I have four speeches by the Ombudsman in the last few months, High Izbo. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'd like to, because not all information is provided... Interestingly, High Izbo, the State also in response to some of these statements of the Ombudsman you inform that this is classified information. What is the reason why you, the Ministry of Justice or the Prison Service, use this reservation not to provide specific information? These are citizens and citizens for whom the Polish state takes full responsibility. And this is not information on the issue of security during a pandemic that can simply be hidden from an authority, in particular an authority such as the Ombudsman, a constitutional body that upholds human rights and the citizen. As I said, Mr Marshal, by the end of this point we will make two amendments deleting the article. Article 2 and Article 2 3, considering that the amendments to two laws, which are not within the competence of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, but within the competence of the Committee on Health, should be presented in an appropriate manner. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u190	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Anna Maria Żukowska will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wonder why it is always that when there is a simple bill, a good bill that the opposition wants to support, because there are concrete changes that should be made, the Law and Justice must do so that a man does not want to do so, because he does it through the back door, without preparation and in a manner that is not in accordance with the Sejm's rules. This bill was presented to us after 4 days, i.e. The committee meeting took place 4 days after the project was submitted to us, not after 7. That's one thing. And the second thing that has already been mentioned here and which has been highlighted by the Legislative Office of the Sejm. The amendments proposed at the committee meeting, which were submitted to us as members and members of the committee 15 minutes after the start of the committee - no one wanted to admit them at first - it was not known whose amendments - went simply beyond the scope of the submission. This isn't right. There should be either a joint meeting of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Health, or these amendments should not actually be here. Will it be that the argument for everything will be COVID? Will it be that you will be adding to everything as Law and Justice solutions that should be in a normal law that the citizen will recognize by title and will not have to look for regulations in other laws that he simply will not think about? Are you gonna change the seed bill and throw stuff in there about health care? This should not be the legislative process. Unfortunately, I still haven't got used to it, the Left won't get used to it, and we're gonna argue it. The solutions that are submitted, after consultation, were considered right, but that they should simply not be included in this law, nor should they be brought before the Justice Committee. These are our comments. As for the substance, we support both the increase of the maximum limit of state budget expenditure for flat-rate travel for officers who commute to their workplace from outside their residence. This is a solution that we just have to accept. On the other hand, all other solutions should simply be included in the COVID Act, not in the law amending the Prison Service Act, and should not be combined. You should anticipate this as Law and Justice before and amend the COVID Act at the Health Committee meeting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u192	Thank you, madam. Now the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will be presented by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u193	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The coalition of Poland is also in favour of amending the prison law in the area in which it is necessary, and in this area, which the government project speaks about. On the other hand, we will definitely not put our hands on any additional things that go beyond the limits of this amendment on this occasion, because this, first of all, puts our legislation in such a very poor light, secondly, there are doubts about some methodology and intention of what was to accompany this change during the work. I would like to know by the way, Minister, whether these amendments were tabled both at the committee meeting and today in agreement with the Ministry of Justice, whether this is another aspect of the war that takes place between this majority of law and justice and the environment that you represent. Because it looks a little weird, and I think it'd be worth explaining. We as the Coalition of Poland will, of course, be the essential part of the revision of the prison law as much as possible, while we will not agree to the amendments that appeared during the work under suspicious circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u194	Thank you very much. Two Members will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. First, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, then Mr Dobromir Sosnierz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u195	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, and to encourage a few commendations. Well, it's a good thing the legislator takes care of the Prison Service officers arriving at the workplace. All officers must be made aware of the ethos of service to the independent Republic of Poland. It is also a good thing that this is being examined in advance here, because the increase in these additives is in the period from 2022 and the time horizon is set for a decade forward, until 2031. It makes you feel like someone's planning something, so it's good. Of course, it is difficult to predict the value of this money in a few years with the ongoing tax increases, the printing of the money. This is such a trap as the PiS 500+ flagship project, which managed to convince voters that the state became friendly and at the same time the increase of public danins, tax causes that this money really lost its value, probably already worth half of what it was worth, how it was introduced. So that you continue to develop this confusing system, so confusing that even university lecturers do not want to use the phrase "tax system," because what happens in Poland is no longer a system, because the system is something complete. But I'm coming back. As far as praise is concerned, the positive aspect here in the field of criminal enforcement law is that a large number of prisoners have the opportunity to provide work by carrying out a sentence. And that's what the rehabilitation, the economics are about, but that's a good idea. Just make sure this isn't an opportunity to escape the prisoners and, what was pointed out, to financial scams by officials who misunderstood the incentive to entrepreneurship. But if we're going to jail through the keyhole, we can see something important. Prisons remind us of justice, remind us of who should be sitting there, not sitting there, and who should not sit and sit. Who shouldn't be sitting down? There should not be justice, and he sits there, and in a quiet voice he asks: Why do not those who should sit? There are no traitors of Poland in prisons from recent decades. The betrayal of the state in Poland is practically unpunished, which calls for vengeance to heaven. Unaccounted privatisation from the 1990s, all the cantons of the round table that last until today, but also 8 years of PO-PSL rule, a huge number of scandals. You won the election on this one, ladies and gentlemen. And I would like to remind you that there was a Minister of the Treasury of PiS Dawid Jackiewicz, who even calculated this, presenting from the Seym Chamber a year after PiS took over the government of the state of public affairs and state institutions for the day of the end of the PO-PSL coalition. There's a document. Quote from Minister Jackiewicz: It is a partial, fragmented document because our research and analysis is still ongoing and new information is coming. The reading of this document must be outrageous, deeply outrageous. This is what we have been dealing with over recent years in terms of the management of public wealth, which does not belong to politicians, does not belong to officials, belongs to us, to all Poles. I'm not able to quote the entire report, but I can actually summarize it in a few words. These words are greed, mismanagement, wastefulness, violation of procedures, the use of companies for political purposes and actions detrimental to the interests of the state - the end of the quote. The scandalists are unaccounted for, the minister is not in the government or in politics. Allegedly, he was fired for pushing his people into the Treasury companies. Laughter, ladies and gentlemen, laughter. That's certainly not true. He violated the deal and bounced off him. The hand washes. We don't touch yours, you don't touch ours. And that's how it goes and it goes. The round table holds tight, but this will not be the case in Poland forever. We're waiting on cell + program. We wait, we wait, and we do it for you because you don't want to, you can't. There will come a time when all those who have broken the law, regardless of their political color, will end up in these penitentiary facilities. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u196	Thank you very much. Is Mr Dobromir Sosnierz present in the Chamber or in remote mode? If not, I understand that on this performance on behalf of the clubs and the wheels have been completed. We begin to ask questions that have been raised by seven Members. If there aren't more people willing, I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u197	Dear Marshal, Using the presence of Deputy Minister Wosie, who took over the prison service area after Patryk Jakim and later Michale Wójcik, the ministers, I would like to ask about the issues concerning the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber's conclusions. A year ago, NIK sent as many as 16 notifications to the D.A. about irregularities in the program. The Supreme Audit Chamber has now published the results of a detailed audit focusing on the circumvention of tenders by the departments under the Ministry. NIK accuses the Prison Service of incorrect supervision of organisational units subordinate to and supervised by the Minister, which promoted the creation of an investment vehicle mechanism to allow establishments to commission subcontractors to any extent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Supreme Audit Chamber established that from January 2017 to the middle of 2019 more than PLN 560 million were sent to private entrepreneurs in this way. High Izbo, half a billion zlotys. Minister, this must be your first opportunity to comment on this case. How does the justice department refer to the findings of independent NIK controllers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u198	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Left. Mr. Marshal, it should be remote. We don't have a connection, so we're gonna use the time. In that case, Mr Wiesław Szczepański. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! At the end of 2019, as indicated in the annexes to the Act, 26 890 officers were employed in the Prison Service. Could you tell us how many of these officers we have right now, i.e. at the end of November this year.? How many vacancies do we have? What percentage, because we may not know the number for these people, is using the means we are talking about today, so for commuting? How many use them? And my question to the rapporteur, Mr Asta. Mr President, you are a long-standing Member, a lawyer. Do you think that proceding a law, in which other laws are inserted, when the law is only about the Prison Service, is normal proceding? Is that against the constitution? Why didn't you propose this amendment to the COVID Act, which is currently in the Sejm? As far as I know, she'll be processed tomorrow. Why didn't those amendments get there and the Prison Service bill didn't stay clean? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u200	Thank you very much. I ask Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition, to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In general, the law establishing these new limits for lump sums makes sense. These limits should be increased. But I have a few questions and doubts. First of all, you're pointing out that it's more than 26,000. persons. But that's the number of all officers. The question is, how many of them will actually be entitled to this lump sum. Probably many, since you move them to the other end of Poland, e.g. For exposing abuse to the Prison Service. This is an example of your lieutenant colonel the shooter who was accused of mobbing and molesting. He was punished by a reprimand, which you then canceled by Minister Jak, promoting him to the highest positions, and the officers reporting this scandal were posted from Kalisz to Szczecin, Bydgoszcz, Czestochowa and Olsztyn. Is that why you are increasing these expenses for these lump sums, that you are transferring so many officers for punishment to other places of Poland and will have to raise them? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't that why it wouldn't turn out that the actual lump sum per officer falls? Please state in writing how many officers have received this lump sum in recent years as these figures change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u202	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u203	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is hard not to have the impression that, in this law - even though it only concerns financial issues - we see in the pill how destructive for the state, the rule of the United Right is for its services. Minister! I have a question. We have all heard of these absolutely unacceptable cases where, in fact, the government puts its hands to punish the officers working for the service, to improve the conditions for serving by the officers, punishing them for trying out of their environment, from the Prison Service to eliminate the pathologies that you are strengthening. You're strengthening pathology in this service. So I have a question: When will you really carry out an objective, rational, desirable reform and change the terms of service in such a way that the conditions of this service correspond to the responsibility that officers have every day? [[♪ The bell ♪]] When are you going to start eliminating those pathologies that serve you today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u204	Thank you very much. I do not see Mr Konrad Frysztak, so I consider that the list of Members of the task of the question has been exhausted. I'll ask Mr. Michał Woś, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice to answer the questions asked. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u205	Thank you kindly. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill presented... Thank you for these votes on the first part submitted by the government, namely on the financial limits for flat-rate travel, for posting. In this respect, there is general support, so that I thank you for it. On the other hand, I would also like to thank Parliamentary Club Law and Justice for submitting amendments, very sensible amendments to improve the functioning of the Prison Service in a pandemic era. These amendments are supported by the government and are moving towards a further effective fight against the widespread epidemic, including behind bars. Although you have to say, the coronavirus doesn't look for the target. I'll be talking about these details in a minute. The amendments introduce the possibility of posting Prison Service officers to support also civilian health services or free health services if necessary. They limit the movement itself generated by inmates or officers. Teleports and other improvements are being introduced, which have also been introduced in the free health service. Thank you very much for these amendments. The amendments tabled today will also be examined in detail and I think they are heading in the right direction. On the other hand, when presenting the position of the club or when asking questions, Members asked about the state of the Prison Service. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am proud to thank thousands of Prison Service officers who are very good at dealing with the pandemic of Coronavirus in the Seym of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, let this be borne out by data, concrete data. In Poland at the moment, 93 infected people are incarcerated, and even just came to me an e-mail with the number of today: 90, again the number decreased by three. There are 90 infected inmates. That's not even 1%. , these are promile: 0,17 . In the Czech Republic there are 565 infected, which accounts for almost 3%, in Slovakia - almost 1% , in Hungary - 0.4%. So in all these countries, unfortunately, they're doing worse than we are. Today it is appropriate to thank the Prison Service for this hard, daily, professional work, which has actually caused the Koravirus Prison Service to do very well. There are organized special isolation, there are a number of additional restrictions and sanitary regimes, the effects of which today, after these few months, we see clearly. With regard to questions and answers under the reserved clause, the honourable Member is well aware that some of the matters are so sensitive to the security of the State that they require such a clause, and also as regards this procedure, he has not yet had any objections and has not been brought forward by the Ombudsman whom he referred to in this regard. As for the questions about the Supreme Board of Control report... High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen, this latest report is a repetition of completely absurd allegations already verified by various institutions. They were considered absurd by these institutions. After all, it is normal that there are preferences in the tender for those who employ convicts to rehabilitate them. Such preferences are not only in Poland, but also around the world, because the penitentiary system does not only serve the purpose of punishment - this is of course the first basic obligation - but also the rehabilitation of the convicted, social readaptation. It's done. The next question was the number of officers. Right now, we've got exactly what we need. 26 800 officers in active duty. Of these officers, about 800 people benefit from these additions that relate to the bill. Mr Marshal will forgive, but as regards the remaining questions about alleged criminal transfers - completely absurd questions - whether the strengthening of pathology - again beating words without specifics - is not too much to answer, because the Prison Service is a very good formation, efficient formation, the third largest armed formation in Poland, which is perfectly capable not only of pandemics, but also protecting Polish security, and which in the last 5 years has been invested on such a scale (the Bell), which during previous governments could only dream of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u206	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Szczerba will take the floor on this issue in the way, let us say, to correct it. If you'd possibly decided later that you wanted to answer, you'd be welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u207	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, we have no doubt that working for prisoners should serve prisoners. The problem is that the Supreme Audit Chamber presents this information quite differently in its audit proposals. That is, the plants we are talking about, from 1 January 2017 to 31 June 2019 have placed orders for a total amount of PLN 680 million - we are talking about incarceration plants - and as much as 82% However, this amount went to commercial subcontractors. Commercial subcontractors who, Minister, had no obligation to hire prisoners. Thus, it can be said that PLN 0.5 billion went to subcontractors who did not pursue the basic objective of the program. And that's the facts. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please refer either to this issue or to specific explanations in writing, because the NIK report on this matter is unambiguous and our position is that we should simply accept these explanations. And if you're saying that some organs were involved in this case, yes, they were investigating bodies, such as the D.A.'s office. A prosecutor who is subject to the same minister who oversees the Prison Service.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u208	The Minister will answer the question, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u209	I don't know if it's in correction mode, but again. If we are to rehabilitate prisoners, then also the Member, but also the High House are aware of what work prisoners can and cannot do. That's why statutory preferences are introduced so that prisoners work on jobs that they are suitable for, where they can do their job well, efficiently, because they rehabilitate through work. And it's obvious to everyone that if we're building a production hall, some other high-tech, complicated place, then, with this kind of employment, there's obviously subcontractors. But it is also clear that these agreements also reserve - in most cases - the fact that prisoners are working on it, sir, and I would strongly recommend that we read it in detail, look at it, to support good programs that serve the social re-adaptation of those who are excluded. Thank you very much. Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u210	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Marek Ast, who is the rapporteur of the committee, will speak last.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank all the members of the committee for the comments made during the first reading of the project and for the process on it in committee for supporting this basic project, but also for the comments made to the amendments. Mr Wiesław Szczepański asks about compliance with the constitution of this procedure. Mr President, we talked about this in committee, and I also at the beginning, in my first speech today, briefly referred to this complaint, but also the constitution imposes on you an obligation to protect civil rights, above all the right to health and life. We are operating in an emergency, and these amendments are aimed directly at protecting the health and life of inmates and officers, so that's why. As regards the substantive content of these amendments, none of the clubs actually raised objections. I would also ask the committee, on behalf of the committee, to support these amendments and the whole draft. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u212	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock (prints Nos 766 and 812). I ask Mr Mariusz Trepka to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u213	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental bill on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. This is print number 766. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy for first reading on 20 November 2020. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 8 December 2020 propose: The High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Mr. Marshal! The contested law during the joint meetings of the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Infrastructure was, I would say, very much adopted by all parliamentarians participating in the work of these committees. 51 Members voted in favour of this bill, no one opposed it, 3 abstained. The draft law will provide the legal basis for the implementation of the programme: the premises for land, the first of the so-called instruments. the market part of the housing package. This programme is one of the tools to eliminate the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic in the field of construction. The aim is to make greater use of public property for construction, including housing. The scheme: the land premises are based on the form of partial settlement of the price purchased by the investor of the public real estate, i.e. from the municipal real estate stock or from the National Property Resource, residential or utility premises, which the investor will hand over to the municipality. The basic model assumes the use of the acquired property for residential purposes. In this model, the municipality will sell the real estate investor for housing in an unlimited tender. Part of the settlement of the price of the property will be made in monetary form, while the rest will be paid later after the construction of the apartments. The investor will then build a residential building and hand over some of the apartments to the municipality. The municipality will be able to use these apartments as communal apartments or to bring them to the municipal company for example. The apartments introduced to the municipal company will be available for rent, e.g. with access to property. The tenants of these apartments will be able to additionally apply for rent payments under the scheme Mr. Marshal! Briefly: the purpose of this law is to develop social housing, public housing in municipalities, combined with investors, developers, so that the society that is waiting for housing can acquire it as soon as possible. Additional incentives for municipalities to engage in measures to implement the housing policy of the State provide for preference when combining the pro-residential activity with other forms of action of municipalities for the benefit of the local community with funds from the Self-Governmental Roads Fund or the Bus Transport Development Fund of a public service nature. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Please accept this report. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u214	Thank you very much, sir. I'm opening a discussion. I would very much like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present a report... Excuse me: the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u215	This time on behalf of the club, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Improving the availability of housing by stimulating new housing investments is one of the priorities of the State's housing policy set out in the 2016 National Housing Programme. While in the development and individual construction sector in recent years approx. 40% increase in housing construction - I would like to remind you that in 2015 it was 147.2 thousand, in 2019 and 207.5 thousand. - this offer for people with lower incomes who could not afford their own house or to buy apartments from the developer was too poor. The new investment model launched in 2016 is a building for rent with the option of gradual access to property implemented by PFR Real Estate SA, which should be complemented by municipal construction and social construction. Investment to increase housing resources with relatively low rents with the involvement of municipalities plays an extremely important role. Here, the government Housing Development Fund should be stimulated by PLN 1.5 billion from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund and very high financial support for municipalities which actively engage in housing investments. This support reaches, depending on the type of action, 35%, 50% , and even in some cases - 80% , and so there is a chance that municipalities, which have not so far attached great importance to municipal construction, will become more involved in the establishment of lower-income premises. High Izbo! In view of the negative effects on the economy of the COVID-19 pandemic, it is necessary to introduce measures to stimulate housing and eliminate barriers to its development. One such barrier restricting the development of construction, especially market-based, is the availability of land for construction. The problem is also the lack of space weapons in technical infrastructure and low access to social infrastructure. High Izbo! The solutions provided for in this draft Print Act No 766 are set out in Article. 1 - rules for the sale of real estate by the municipalities with settlement in the price of real estate from the municipal stock of the price of premises or buildings transferred in exchange for land by the investor, i.e. the buyer of real estate, i.e. the so-called. settlement of premises for land, as well as eligibility, disposal and clearing rules. The disposal of real estate shall be decided by the competent council of the municipality as provided for in Article in the resolution. 4. Let's add that the status of this plot must be determined - either there must be a record of the spatial planning plan, or a decision on the construction conditions, not a cat in a bag for the contractor as far as this area is concerned. It is worth noting that the price of land is between 5% a 20% the value of the built-in property, so this may be the scale of the housing communities to the municipal stock. The draft law also sets out how to deal with such purchased premises in the event of a decision to bring them into the company - a municipal company or a company of the Treasury. The project, following its adoption, will enable municipalities to obtain support for the construction of technical infrastructure or social infrastructure for housing projects. It is a matter of art, for example. 15, which contains amendments to the Act of 8 December 2006 on financial support for the creation of housing for rent, sheltered housing, etc. The project will also allow municipalities to be given preference in accessing funds from the Self-Government Road Fund, as referred to in Article. 18, which includes amendments to the Act on the Government Road Development Fund, and will also facilitate access to the Bus Transport Development Fund - we are talking about an article. 19. All this for better communication and service of the emerging housing stock. The tenants of such acquired apartments will be able to apply for the rent payment from the scheme of the start-up apartment. Here, in turn, are the changes contained in the article. 17, amendments to the Law of 20 July 2018 on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment. High Izbo! In order for Polish families to be able to live normally, raise new generations of Poles, they need not only work, stable employment for a fair payment or support in raising children, but also their own or rented out on capable housing conditions. Improving housing availability is the most important problem to solve. The package of housing laws, which includes the print project 766 discussed here today - the premises for land, is another tool after the already adopted print project 534. Both of these projects establish new instruments for implementing the United Rights Government's housing programme. We keep our word. Reliability and implementation of publicly made promises are a distinction between responsible and sound policies. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's why my law and justice club will vote in favour of the 766 Print Act. Mr. Marshal! Let me make three amendments on behalf of my club. Two of them concern Article. 15 and the third amendment concerns the addition of a new article to transitional provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u216	Thank you very much, Commissioner, for presenting the position of the parliamentary club and for submitting amendments. Mr Michał Krawczyk will now present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u217	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Reading the justification for this bill, it is impossible to resist the impression that this bill, which we are talking about today, commonly known as the premises for land, was created to save the National Housing Programme, which was announced with the flagship program "Rooming+" during the inauguration of which the then Prime Minister Beata Szydło, exactly 4 years ago, because on 12 October 2016, she said: "Rooming+" becomes a fact. We are launching a great housing program for Polish families and Poles, for all those who dream of their own apartments. So? You left Polish families with these dreams, because certainly not with new apartments. During the 4 years of operation of the scheme, 1017 apartments - 250 apartments per year were created within the market part of the scheme. In the National Housing Program, which you refer to in the justification of the bill, you assumed that by 2030 in Poland the number of apartments per thousand. The population will be compared on average with the EU average. In Poland it is currently 380, in the European Union - 435. If there are currently 15 million apartments in Poland, we need to build 2 million new apartments in the next 10 years, i.e. 200,000. apartments per year. During your several years of government, the average number of apartments built... In 2019 it was... it was so close to your request. ...was within 175,000, of which 96% These were apartments built by developers and individual investors. Therefore, I have the impression that you have presented us with a bill in which the development of housing is trying to shift and you are going to shift to local governments, and if this law doesn't start to work in practice - and I'm going to tell you that right now, because this can happen - you're going to blame the local authorities. Although the idea itself and the intention to settle the price of a built-up premises or building at the price of the purchased land is not bad, you must realise that only such an idea and the transfer of responsibility to local governments will not save the state of the National Housing and Living+ program. During the meeting of the local government committee, we talked about a number of provisions in the law that could make it impossible to function in practice. The first point concerns the price of the premises per 1 m The second point worth noting is that, from the point of view of spatial governance - this is also what some local authorities have pointed out - the controversial provision is that investments can only be located on land on which the local plan is based and on which the building conditions are issued. From the point of view of spatial governance, it is much better if the investment is located - and I also say it as a former self-government - on the land on which the local spatial development plan applies. On the other hand, the bill is undoubtedly a step in the right direction, although, as I said, it will only be after a certain period of time whether the doubts I am reporting here today will prevent it from working in practice, and there is such a serious threat. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u218	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Left Club will be presented to the High House by Monika Falej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With the problem of housing shortage and high prices already existing we have a problem for many years. Not to mention what is its derivative - many Poles and many Poles cannot afford to rent an apartment. So every attempt to regulate the housing market is enjoying. Each one that's on the plus side, each one that's not illusory, because as we know, the big project of living plus turned out to be a big failure. I will not talk about the advantages of the presented project, the government project on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock, because many times such words fell from the mouth of legislators and the governing party. As a Left, we will support any solution that improves the housing situation and anyone that stimulates any sector of the economy. However, I will point to a number of shortcomings that raise doubts about this project. The main objective of the law - the wider use of municipal land for housing, and thus more housing in municipal resources, may not be achieved due to the small interest of the developers themselves. Example: in Warsaw the price of the reconstruction metro is PLN 7200, with the cost of building 1 m The assumption that the municipalities will gain around 10% The buildings from the built apartments can also be a dream. The Act does not specify what percentage of residential space should be guaranteed to municipalities. It is possible that the municipality for investment of 500 apartments will receive only one. There are doubts immediately as to whether this will lead to abuse. And another thing that has not been clarified is whether the apartments thus acquired will remain in the fixed stock of municipalities. We also know that building apartments by the municipality can be cheaper. So there is no perfect situation. The law also comes too late in the situations of those municipalities that have deficiencies in the land and were forced to sell them out earlier. Work out, among others. provisions on the grant by the municipality of rents in premises transferred by investors and managed by housing communities. It is the communities that will determine the amount of the rent, not the municipalities. The cost of maintaining such an apartment may exceed the capacity of the municipality, and this is not to be regulated at the stage of the arrangement with the investor. The Act gives opportunities, with limitations, without guarantee of success, but the Left supports any solution that can bring positive results, but in case of clarification of the above mentioned doubts. I'm making amendments on behalf of the Left Club. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u220	Thank you very much. Thank you, Member. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition, Mr Jacek Tomczak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland on the report of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the governmental bill on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. The draft law introduces the possibility of acquiring municipal property for the purposes of broadly understood investment with settlement at the price of those properties, in the price of housing or commercial buildings transferred to the municipality by the purchaser of the real estate. The localities or buildings whose price will be included in part of the property prices will be able to be used by the municipality to carry out its tasks. It will also be possible for the municipality to acquire the area under cultural, educational or health care facilities in this mode. Locals or buildings covered by the investment, and not communicated to the municipality, will be able to be built by the investor in any way. The aim of the project is to reduce barriers to investment activity, to support municipal authorities in the implementation of their tasks. The second important objective of the resolution contained in the draft law is to enable local authorities to apply for a grant for the implementation of infrastructure projects accompanying housing. In general, the intention of this project is, of course, right and there are a number of interesting ideas. The only thing missing seems to be the oversimplifying of this process, but it should be more flexible. Let us remember that the condition of each investment is completely different, so regulating these property prices and parameters on the basis of which these transactions will be carried out by the municipalities may be the thing that will simply block these processes. However, it is worth remembering that today, in the housing policy that we would like to develop, one of the main problems is access to credit. Today we have a huge problem and housing policy is limping because fewer and fewer Poles have access to loans, on the one hand, because of the difficult economic situation, on the other hand, because of the lack of State instruments supporting in obtaining such loans, on the other hand because of the worsening credit policy and KNF, and individual banks. If we do not change this aspect and there will be a meaningful programme of support for Poles in obtaining loans just to get housing, then there will be no chance that this housing policy will start, and none of the projects will really change that. So it's worth looking at the effects of the MdM program, living for young people. From all the indicators that we can analyze from the perspective of the years, comparing it to the housing + and other housing programs, it appears that this was the most effective program, which supported most Polish families in gaining access to the apartment. It is worth to lean on this and think about other new instruments that could support Polish housing and allow Polish families access to housing. However, we believe that this law is, of course, a step in the right direction. Practicing will probably make it new, but it is certainly a step in the right direction. Parliamentary Club The coalition Poland will support the bill submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u222	Thank you, sir. Mr Krystian Kaminski will present the position of the Confederation's circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Government's draft law on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal real estate stock concerns the definition of rules for the disposal of unbounded real estate of municipalities and the National Property Resource with the possibility to settle part of the price of real estate in the form of apartments. This means that the government wants to increase the availability of land for housing investments by reducing one of the basic barriers to investment activity in Poland, which is too small a market offer of real estate suitable for construction. Municipal authorities are to receive additional support in the implementation of local housing policy, among others. to increase the number of premises in its territory and to provide financial State aid for the implementation of technical and social infrastructure. How's that supposed to work? In the basic model, the investor, i.e. the real estate buyer from the municipality, would build a building, possibly renovate, rebuild and transfer some of the apartments to the local government. The municipality could keep these apartments in its resources or bring them to municipal companies, TBS. Why is this a good program? Because for the first time - for the first time, in a footnote, it is always something new - not everything you have to do or not everything the municipality has to do, we just let private investors cooperate. We allow a private investor to work with someone to create something with the municipality. Here we give a chance that not only the municipality should be burdened, but not only the municipality had to take care of something itself, but only so that it could open up and be able to build housing policy together with private investors. As you can see, developers have no problem building apartments. It is usually the municipalities that have a problem with building municipal housing, because on the one hand there is a lack of funds, and once these funds are already there, then they have to be settled somehow, then eventually there is the transfer of these apartments, sale, approval of the city council for the sale of apartments, discounts, etc. It's always difficult. This is therefore a step in the right direction. I think that the more private money, the more private investors, the less municipalities, the less countries you have when building apartments - the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u224	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. 22 Members joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to sign up for the question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will be asked as the first question. There isn't. I just saw him somewhere a little while ago, but okay. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! When we read the justification of this bill, we wonder why this justification is not based on facts. Projectors say that collapse or maybe collapse, but the difficult situation in the housing economy is due to the lack of investment processes in previous years, only recently is improvement. Another issue - the low tendency of municipalities to engage in direct investment processes. And who brought this on? Why do local governments take money, and in a pandemic period, they are deprived of any means at all to invest? And another thing - housing cooperatives do not invest. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm so sorry. Mrs Paluch, I ask you very much to move the talks. But we're discussing, Mrs. Marshal, what we're discussing. And as for housing cooperatives, ladies and gentlemen, when we last discussed CIT, Estonian CIT, [[♪ The bell ♪]] When it was possible to give cooperatives a chance, PiS opposed it. So what's the bill when we're undermining our own capabilities? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u226	Thank you, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, club Left, remotely. Do we have a connection? Then perhaps Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the Left Club. And we'll wait for the call. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u227	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation in which the housing market is currently in Poland is a source of many problems, especially for young people. For a long time we have been talking about the lack of cheap apartments for rent, the lack of apartments that can be rented within a framework organized in some way by public institutions, so that they are removed from this completely ruthless free market logic, which is now making us owe ourselves for life so that we can have a roof over our heads. In this situation, the creation of all tools to increase the municipal resource, to increase the local stock, is the right direction. The question is why the State in no way secures the possibility of maintaining these premises in municipal resources, because nothing in the present law prevents the municipalities from selling out these premises. This is a very serious problem, because only with the municipal resources we are able to secure housing resources for rent and the future of young Poles and Poles. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I ask you to reconsider this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u228	Thank you, Member. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I really appreciate this concern about municipal housing. I appreciate the fact that we have been dealing with the collapse of municipal construction for decades. Previous governments have dropped the housing problems of millions of Poles and Poles on developers. The municipalities don't build the premises, they don't buy them, they sell them out. The queues waiting for the apartment are growing. What do young people do? They take loans under thieving conditions for a period of 30 and 40 years. Unfortunately, this law does not solve this problem, and this is another of the gifts you give developers, just as such gifts were apartments within the family and a whole range of ideas about how to strengthen developers. This cannot be the case - and you are allowing the developer, using your law, to build 1,000 apartments on preferential terms, and to give one studio to the municipal housing estate. And that's possible with this bill... Have you read this project? Read it, you'll know. ...the government wants to solve this problem, [[♪ The bell ♪]] By proposing such a bill. That is why we will report an amendment that will regulate this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u230	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u231	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A part of the National Housing Programme is the Housing+ programme, which has been in operation since 2016. This is a government programme of law and justice. It's completely inefficient and doesn't do its job because it's badly constructed. There is still an economic downturn in the legislative solution of the "Accommodation+" programme. That's why I'm asking. What decline in the number of newly created investments, housing is projected in the coming years, assuming that labour costs will increase and that there is a shortage of these workers in the construction sector and, of course, in the situation of rising prices of building materials? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In Poland, we are still struggling with the housing deficit, although 2019 was the best after 1989 in terms of the number of apartments made available. The National Housing Programme, adopted for implementation, sets out the main objectives and means of implementing the State's housing policy in the perspective of 2030. One of the priorities of the bill is to increase the number of housing investments, in particular by building apartments for rent. The opportunity to increase access to real estate is the use of investment opportunities created by the property resources of local government units. My question is: Will the proposed law increase the participation of local governments and developers in building such apartments? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u234	Thank you, Member. The next question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. I don't think he's here either. But, ladies and gentlemen, why ask questions? Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The solutions proposed are an idea, it seems interesting to me, which would increase the availability of municipal housing, but I have some concerns. Firstly, taking into account the price - as has already been said from this speaker - for a meter of reconstruction instead of construction costs or market price can make it less profitable for developers and will not risk such an undertaking at all. Secondly, in municipalities such as Kraków - from where I am - a large part of the population opposes the transfer of further land to developers for the construction of new apartments and prefers to use them for green areas. This could also be a process that will prevent this kind of action in large cities. I am personally afraid that you are simply doing this bill for propaganda purposes, so that, first, you do not have to explain why Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk. There isn't. Mr Marek Rząsa, Civic Coalition. There isn't. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr, yes, you are entered, apparently you have given the wrong data. Do you want to ask a question? No, I was reported to a point on road safety. Aren't you asking a question? Not at this point. Okay, we're not forcing anyone. Mrs Margaret Tracz. There isn't. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Or not to that point? Colleagues to the traffic point. Someone's got the wrong point. There's been a mistake. There's been a mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that the list of speakers that is currently being read refers to the point on road safety. It's possible. Mr President, this list has been forwarded to me from the secretariat. We're about to explain. Are you asking a question? No, I'm not asking a question. I wanted to explain because most of my colleagues aren't here because of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u238	Thank you. Would any of your fellow Members like to speak? Yes. Yes, Mirosław Suchoń. We're here. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course we all know that the government's housing program is a flop, an absolute flop and a compromising flop... Lie, lie, maybe something... ...on the other hand, many laws that Law and Justice have addressed to Parliament actually create a regulation of the developer+, which will not only create new apartments in large numbers, but will create these apartments in places where, for example. Because of the development plan, it has not been possible so far. These rules create a break-in in the decisions of the municipalities, in principle without the possibility of consulting or without consulting the residents at all. This, of course, has the effect that the buildings are being spilled into areas that have not yet been in any way armed. This means that the costs of adapting new areas to construction are increasing and therefore the whole housing policy is simply uneconomic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] For this reason, I have one question: Is the government even considering, in the course of drafting legislation, the issues of infrastructure costs, the costs of adapting new areas and how they will be charged to municipalities' budgets and the state budget in the future? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I mean, it's 10% extra. It's for... infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u240	Thank you very much. A brief explanation. This isn't a mistake for the secretarial staff, but apparently your club handed over the wrong list of people. I volunteered... Yes, it is, but the list of people has been notified to point 5, so that it has actually been transmitted here, the error has been somewhere in the club. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. To this point, Member?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u241	Yes. Good morning. You're welcome. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the regulations contained in this Act, which introduce the possibility of acquiring municipal property intended for broadly understood investment purposes with the settlement of these properties in the price of the property, this is precisely the price I wanted to ask. How will you secure the value of housing from possible speculation? After all, their value in thinking of the developer can be very high, and in fact the standard of these apartments can vary. If necessary, it will lose the municipality, which is the value of public assets. I'm asking for information. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u242	Thank you, Member. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u243	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This law, as is justified, is part of the implementation of the National Housing Programme, adopted on 27 September 2016. I'd like to ask... On p. 58 of the program we read: Development of housing cooperative in the housing segment available - activation of the new tenant building - draft law: 1 quarter 2017 Str. 75: Housing package+: Support for systematic savings for housing purposes, individual housing account - bill draft: 1st quarter 2017. I would like to ask: At what stage are these draft laws? As far as the objectives we are talking about today are concerned, land belonging to the national housing stock can also be used. Could the Minister say what area of land the national housing stock has today? It can be seen that, as of today, the only thing that a national housing resource does is to answer that it does not buy land. And I would also like to ask, how many special purpose companies with the participation of the municipality and the National Property Resources have been created to this day? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u244	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. We'll connect remotely. I have information that we already have a call. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u245	Thank you. May I speak? Yes. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Before the question is asked, if credit is the main problem, it doesn't mean that you have to do something, it just means that banks have too much money and people don't have enough money. Okay, now, let's get to the question... I have a question, you will not understand, I am speaking to Members, but I am speaking to people. [[Joy in the Chamber]] How do you know the apartments aren't enough? If the State were to finance 3/4 of the cost of building an apartment, it would be 30 million people willing to live. If, as it is now, 3/4 of the cost of building an apartment are taxes, then of course they do not want to have enough housing. But even if all the prices were on the market, anyway... E.g. Even in Portugal it is poorer than in the USA, but Portuguese people have bigger apartments because they prefer to have an apartment, not for example. Three cars. This is purely subjective, and there is no objective measure of how much housing is needed. How do you know all this? And the last general remark. The main cause of construction difficulties is that we do not have enough children. If there are no children, why build them? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u246	Thank you, sir. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u247	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if in the near future the government provides for any instruments that will support Poles and facilitate obtaining credit. Today for many Poles it is virtually completely impossible, which is one of the main barriers at the moment, stagnation and prevents further development of the housing market. I also wanted to point out that 90% Apartments in Poland were built by developers, who are Polish entrepreneurs. And it seems that speaking about them should take place with full respect for their work and those Polish in most entrepreneurs who build the Polish housing market. These apartments wouldn't be here if it wasn't for their work. Without the support of Polish entrepreneurs, this housing market will simply not develop. That's why it's the only one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The programme, which was rational, i.e. living for young people, has been so successful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u248	Thank you very much. And once again, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club with which we connect remotely. Maybe this time it'll work. You're welcome. Do we have a call?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u249	Yes. You're welcome, my fellow Member. We hear you. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]] Thank you. I wanted to ask what is the relationship between the proposed law and the recently adopted law on the promotion of certain forms of housing, which provides for a grant fund for municipalities: in the case of the purchase of premises - 50% , in the case of construction of premises - 80%. Will such a surcharge be in force in the light of this law when the land will be converted into premises? And second question: What is the relation of the proposed law to the Real Estate Management Act, to art. 15, which already allows for the conversion of land without a tender between the municipality and the developer? On the other hand, this law proposes a form of bargaining. Will it be lex specialis against the Real Estate Management Act or not? In conclusion, it seems that the provisions of this law are beneficial only to developers and are not beneficial to the municipality. With a minute, I can't develop it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking for an answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u250	Thank you very much, Member. And Mr. Mirosław Suchoń in mode... With a formal application. Uh-huh. No, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u251	With a formal motion, Your Marshal. All right. I just wanted to say, because I didn't have time to ask the Ministry for a written answer to my question about the cost consequences in the long term due to the collapse. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir, but this was not a formal proposal... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u252	...but we made an appointment. Okay. The Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, Minister Anna Kornecka, will answer the questions raised by ladies and gentlemen. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Starting from the beginning, the scheme of living+. has always assumed cooperation with local governments and has always covered not only the market pillar but also the social pillar. As for the number of apartments that appeared at the beginning in one of the questions asked, that is 1,000. apartments, that's $1,000. apartments, but in the market part, and these are the apartments that have already been built. If we compare this result with the results of the. Accommodation+, taking into account the market part and the social part, as well as the apartments built and those that are not yet used, then this number is completely different, that is 25 thousand. apartments, which is 25 times larger. If we consider whether this is, as you have used such a phrase, the transfer of responsibility to municipalities, it is necessary to say clearly: we do not transfer this responsibility to the municipality. From the beginning, the housing+ programme has established cooperation between municipalities. No housing investments, no real estate investments can be made without cooperation between the state and local governments. Few of this, in the regulations we prepare, are countless instruments supporting the municipalities in carrying out their investments. We have a social housing package, which is the law that has already gone to the President's signature at this point. There we have a whole range of instruments to support municipalities in the implementation of investments. Ladies and gentlemen, support of 80% investment costs - in principle, you cannot imagine a stronger instrument that will allow the municipality to decide to start a given investment. That's not enough. We're moving away from the refinancing rule. This money has been available since the very beginning of this investment, and therefore there is no need to involve huge resources related to the implementation of the investment at the beginning, which is the main barrier for municipalities in the implementation of the investment. Our goal is to work together in the program of living+. Both the government and, above all, the local government. Project: The premises behind the ground are part of the entire program. It cannot be considered only in the context of a separate bill. I also thank you all very much for appreciating the quality of the project itself and its solutions, despite all the doubts that I will now try to resolve. I am very pleased to hear that you appreciate such real solutions, aimed at unlocking and speeding up the implementation of the Living+ programme. In our country, 207 thousand were put into service last year. apartments. We lack 1.7 million apartments to reach the EU average, which shows that we need 170 000 per year in the planned National Housing Programme in a 10-year perspective. apartments. This level will certainly be reached because we know that in 2020 this indicator will be even higher than the previous 207 000. On the other hand, to whom do we address our regulations? We address them not only to this part of the market, but above all we support - and the program: the premises for land also supports - municipal construction, rent construction and social construction. We want these apartments to be more, but these apartments in this particular segment. We are not just focusing on the market. Program: the site for land causes such unblocking of real estate, opportunities that have not been used by the municipalities so far because of precisely those barriers that I mentioned earlier, i.e. very high investment costs. The question arose as to whether or not we were afraid that they would be able to use only smaller cities. No, we're not afraid of that. This is the programme implemented also for smaller urban centres. We are dealing with a very intense deagglomeration of these smaller urban centres precisely because the housing needs of residents, the less prosperous inhabitants of these cities are not met within their municipalities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] With regard to the prices and value of these premises and the ratio to the costs of the entire investment, the whole project is about making the developer settle with the municipality of the apartments without a margin. It is not a question of the municipalities buying it at market price, but in the case of such investments, investments in real estate, we are always at risk of being made or lost. Therefore, the investment risk cannot be completely eliminated and in this respect no statutory provisions will safeguard anything. The question arose as to why the municipality has no rules that would make this property remain with the municipality. As a rule in the program: the premises for the ground participate as if in the assembly which assumes that it is the municipality that gives its land. In that case, we are not able to impose any restrictions on the municipality if the land is owned by it and so it was thought that it was essentially an investment by the municipality. Therefore, it could be said that imposing such obligations on the municipality in this respect would be a new restriction on the municipality, so if the land is communal, that is, the property is municipal property, we did not see any justification for introducing any restrictions here. There was a question about land covered by local land development plans or decisions on housing conditions. These decisions on the construction conditions must be issued at the request of the municipality, and therefore they are already investments which are intended in a different way, but also previously decided. Why do we not promote only those properties that are located in the area covered by the local spatial planning plan? Because we address this programme also to rural communities, and in most rural communities we are dealing with such a situation that there are no plans. If we had designed the rules like this, it would indeed have been much more difficult to implement this law. I would like to point out that this is not about land that has no destiny at all. They have a decision on the construction conditions issued by the municipality and to the municipality, in accordance with its preferences as to the scope of the investment. Minister, please finish slowly. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Anna Kornecka: Yes. As regards the principles of hiring tenants and rent to apartments that will be implemented under the law: the premises for land, it must be made clear that they will be established in the resolution of the municipality council. Therefore, if the municipality introduces e.g. issues concerning housing standards or the criteria for tenants or the amount of rent, then we will also have this only and only in the resolution of the municipal council. As far as the National Property Resources are concerned, it must also be said that the National Property Resources have 900 ha of their own land. As far as I know, there are now about 70 agreements, and there are still 30 more in the plans, i.e. about 100 agreements with municipalities. I would therefore like to clarify that the programme is generally consulted throughout 2020. We have great interest in the municipalities, both in the social part of the housing package and in the investment of the premises for land. Self-governments are very interested in this, while they are interested in both smaller and large cities. I have been alone in conversations where this regulation is very expected. We therefore hope that this market element, the housing package segment, will also be completed. Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State of the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Anna Kornecka: I'm almost done. If I have not answered any of your questions, I have not had time to answer that question, then such an answer will be made in writing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u254	Great. Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Presentation by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: Road safety status and activities carried out in this area in 2019 (print No 585) together with the position of the Committee on Infrastructure (print No 667). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Rafał Weber to present a document. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I present a report on the state of road safety in Poland in 2019. The document provides an in-depth analysis of all elements that affect road safety. The document also illustrates the greatest risks to human life and road safety. Ladies and gentlemen! This document contains 175 pages of reliable, thorough, very detailed analysis. There are statistical data collected here at the police's disposal, but also other institutions that are members of the National Road Safety Council. So that what is impressive is its detail, its contents. It is always worth reaching for this document, because it is also a clue to what needs to be done in the future. According to the data collected, the previous year was another year in which the number of road accidents decreased. In 2019 there were: 30 288 accidents - this is a 4.4% decrease in relation to 2018, 35 477 people injured - this is a 5% decrease compared to 2018. 10 633 people badly injured and this is a 3% decrease compared to 2018. And it should be emphasized that these are the lowest in the history of statistical data keeping values. The year 2019, based on these three parameters, was the safest year for road traffic in Poland. Unfortunately, we have failed to maintain the downward trend with regard to fatalities. Last year as many as 2909 people lost their lives on the roads and this is an increase of 1.6% in relation to 2018. The structure of the share of accidents that took place in 2019 is similar to that of previous years. The highest percentage was pedestrian accidents - 23.1% , then due to a failure to adjust speed to traffic conditions - more than 20%, caused by young drivers - 17% , with the participation of cyclists - more than 14% , involving intoxicants - 9% , involving motorcyclists - more than 8%, and as a result of hitting a tree - close to 5%. Previous preventive measures focused on the National Road Safety Programme 2013-2020 have led to many positive changes thanks to the involvement of the National Road Safety Council members as well as many key partners. The number of accidents has been significantly reduced, as I said before, but also injured and badly injured in accidents. But - it is precisely this: but with a big exclamation point - the state of road safety is still unsatisfactory and such a position will be maintained by the government, by the Ministry of Infrastructure, as long as one person is killed by a road accident in Poland. In 2019 we paid as a society the highest price for road events in the form of victims - I recall this number - 2909. This, of course, is a drama of people and their loved ones who come to face each other for years to come. And in order to combat these dramas effectively, it is necessary to continue to carry out systematic actions on many levels, to seek and implement new solutions, in particular, first, by investing in safe roads, secondly, by amending legislation that will positively affect road safety, and thirdly, by education and strengthening the awareness of all those who use Polish roads, not only drivers, but also pedestrians, cyclists, all those who use the road infrastructure every day. Ladies and gentlemen, I am open to questions, I am open to your assessment of road safety in the previous year. If there is an opportunity for this, then in the second part of my speech I will not only answer this question, but I will tell you more about the activities that were carried out by the Ministry of Infrastructure in the previous year, but also about our plans for this closer future and plans for the 4th and 10-year perspective. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u256	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to ask Mrs Anna Milczanowska to present her position to the committee. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u257	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government document: Road safety and action carried out in 2019, print No 585. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above document to the Committee on Infrastructure on 4 September 2020 for consideration. The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering this document at its meeting on 7 October 2020 and following a very substantive, constructive and concrete discussion, together with the replies of Minister Rafał Weber, calls for the High Sejm to adopt the printing document No 585. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u258	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Piotr King. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u259	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice in respect of prints Nos 585 and 667, i.e. presented by the President of the Council of Ministers of the document: the road safety status and the activities carried out in this regard in 2019. Document: The road safety status and activities carried out in 2019 include a number of data concerning, among others: the type of accidents, the number of fatalities, seriously injured, the type of vehicles, the gender of victims, the behaviour of drivers, pedestrians, cyclists, together with proposals and recommendations for further corrective action. It also describes in detail the activities carried out by the members of the National Road Safety Council and the institutions cooperating with the National BRD Council on improving the safety of road users. The analyses presented are based on data from the Accident and Collision Registration System conducted by the Police Headquarters. Detailed analysis of statistical data, test results and analyses concerning the behaviour of road users and the risk assessment of road accident presented in the document allow the identification of the main profiles of the perpetrators, victims and causes of road accidents. The accident data in 2019 were compared with last year's data as well as included in the trend observed over the last 10 years. In addition, the document contains maps showing a set of hazard indicators for different categories of road accidents in all voivodships in 2019. The report highlights the risks and challenges that arise in the demographic and statistical trends of the BRD, namely the rise of the problem of increased safety risks for road users in the 60+ group. At the same time, action and projects on the most vulnerable voivodships or regions are pointed out. The report clearly shows that in 2019 the National Road Safety Council took further concrete steps to bring together the activities and efforts of the various actors, as well as, through the secretariat of the National Road Safety Council, concrete projects and actions aimed at enhancing the strength and effectiveness of the impact on the improvement of the BRD. An example is the nationwide training for local road and police managers or the implementation in 94 counties with the highest threat rates of national 60+ workshops in support of local authorities, police, NGOs and other entities. An important element of the report is the information on research and BRD publications made in 2019. Thanks to scientific knowledge and the available statistical data contained in the document, it is possible to identify key risk factors as well as to programme actions for the following years. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to inform you that our club will vote in favour of the Prime Minister's information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u260	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented to the High House by Maciej Lasek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The conclusions of the analysis of the latest report on road safety are worrying. 4 years is the time allowed for the expected effects. 4 years is also a long enough time to assess the measures taken to improve safety on Polish roads. So let's take a look at what this condition is like. The number of accidents is decreasing and although it has decreased at a slightly faster pace than in recent years, the differences are small. Good. The same can be said of the number of people injured in road accidents. The number of people seriously injured in accidents has also gradually decreased at almost a steady rate since 2011. Before that, it was about 5%. per year, between 2016 and 2019 on average 2% It's been up to 3% lately. Unfortunately, there is no chance of achieving the objective set in the National Road Safety Programme for 2013-2020. On the other hand, the target set, i.e. a 40% reduction in the number of seriously injured persons for 2010 by 2020, is not and probably never real. Simply the declines, both in 2011 and in 2016 and 2019, were too slow. The number of accidents resulting from hiking has also decreased. This is the end of the good news. The number of deaths has been at the same level for five years and has been increasing for the last two years. The national road safety programme for 2013-2020 was expected to reduce the number of victims by 50% by 2020. I From 2011 to 2015 the number of road fatalities decreased on average by 8,5% each year. If this trend were maintained, the target would be achieved. Unfortunately, in 2016 this trend stopped. There's no improvement here. Why? Something went wrong in 2016 and to this day probably no conclusions were drawn. The number of collisions is actually increasing. Between 2012 and 2015 it was the lowest - approx. 250 thousand. Collision a year. In 2019 it was 450,000. This is a 30% increase since 2014. What's the reason? I didn't find the answer to that question in the report. The statistics on people injured and killed in road accidents involving pedestrians are also worrying. Firstly, this is the most common type of accident in which an vulnerable road traffic participant dies. Secondly, the trend has been growing for both of these statistics since 2010. Many fatalities involving pedestrians are caused by too high a driving speed - up to 48%. These are accidents that could definitely be reduced. 770 people died in 2019 because the driver was driving too fast. When it comes to motorcycle accidents, something very bad is happening. The number of motorcyclists who died in 2019 has been highest for 10 years and has increased by almost 50% since 2015. What is the cause of this? It's hard to tell from the report. A similar situation applies to fatalities caused by heavy goods vehicles. From 2015 to 2019 their number increased by more than 40%. In conclusion, I would like to say that the state of safety on Polish roads... The improvement of safety indicators in 2011 and 2015 was clearly halted in the years to come. Maybe not all of them - some of them fall. It may be felt that the tasks that have been carried out since 2016 do not have a major impact on improving road safety. Of course, it cannot be said what the effect of stopping these activities would be, but the overall improvement is small. What's the reason? I think it is about time, Minister, for a critical analysis of the solutions adopted in 2016 and for proposing new avenues of prevention. Finally, speed. According to the 2016 report of the Road Transport Institute, as many as 46% have been eliminated by municipal photoradar. The number of deaths in these places has increased. I really can't understand why until today [[♪ The bell ♪]] We didn't regulate the hole in the automatic speeding surveillance system. Traffic regulations are clear, define the permissible speed on the road. Safety is also the application of existing rules, even if some drivers should be reminded of this. Thank you, sir. Because in the end, it's about someone's life. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The presented report on road safety and the activities carried out in this area in 2019 again show that Poland is far behind in terms of road safety in relation to the countries of the European Union. Among the reasons for this is the lack of an organisation that would work effectively to improve security. The National Road Safety Council is certainly not such an institution. Using Polish roads, despite so many years of implementation of various solutions, is still a struggle for survival. In addition to Bulgarian and Romanian Polish roads belong to the most dangerous roads in the European Union. According to this report, 2019 was the next year in which the number of road accidents decreased by 4.4%. as compared to 2018, but the number of fatalities did not fall, increased by 1.6% in relation to the previous year. And this is really tragic data. The most important measure of effectiveness of the Polish government in this area is the number of deaths, and this one grows from year to year. According to the latest report of the European Union Commission in 2019 in Poland, 77 people were killed in accidents, compared to 58 in the Czech Republic, 39 in Estonia, and 22 in Sweden. Where did that come from? Of course, a part of the blame for such a situation should be borne by insufficient network of express roads, infrastructure, motorways, bypasses. The city of Kalisz has been waiting for its ring road for decades. But there's something else. Already in 2015, the World Bank analysed accidents on Polish roads. He recommended Poland to create a strong organisation responsible for improving road safety. You may ask: Why? We've had it since 2002. National Road Safety Council? According to the World Bank, an institution that could change reality on Polish roads should be cross-party, stable and competent enough to account for the actions of individual ministries and institutions. Cross-partying is a key value because security improvements must be planned for years and should not be paralyzed by any change of authority. The National Road Safety Council does not comply with this request. This body, founded, as I mentioned, in 2002, operates at the Minister for Transport. With such a concept, it is hard to expect that the National Council will critically analyse the activities of the Ministry of Infrastructure or account for the police initiative under the control of the Minister of Home Affairs. As a result, this council is a facade institution. Unfortunately, Poland has remained a negative example on the EU road safety map for years. This will not improve until a dynamic organisation is set up that will be independent of political pressure and will be able to organise not only limited-scale social campaigns. This should be considered very seriously, because these reports, the information you are presenting to us, are not changing much, and people will continue to die on the roads and we will continue to be at the end of the European Union. Please think deeply about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u264	Thank you, Member. Mr Stefan Krajewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u265	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland concerning the document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers: According to this report, the number of road accidents decreased in 2019. As the Minister pointed out and at committee meetings, and today, three of the four basic data on road safety are very positive. They're positive, but I don't know if it's too much of a hurricane. It's a good thing these indicators are decreasing. But the Minister also said that these data are the lowest among the values measured in the history of monitoring road safety indicators. And that's probably the way it should be, because there's a lot left over in the last few years. Done. I am not only talking about the period since 2015, but also about the earlier period when the motorways were built, expressways. All these investments, largely with EU funding, were intended on the one hand to accelerate and improve traffic flow and, on the other hand, to increase the safety of both drivers, passengers and pedestrians. Many such investments have been made. I think everyone can see the roads, along these roads cycling paths, roads that are meant to be used for handling, so-called. technical roads. That's more and more. On the other hand, we would like to say that it can always be better, and that is what we should all strive for, because it is not only about investment, but also about police action. As we see dozens, hundreds of policemen today before the Sejm, it seems to us that they do not have to be here at all, that they could guard road safety, not only Warsaw, but also other voivodships, other cities, villages. Because yesterday, when I was driving here, I was passing 15 big police cars that came back from Warsaw from action instead of being there. On the other hand, traffic. Instead of catching road pirates, giving parking tickets to those who actually commit major traffic offences or even traffic offences is the easiest way to chase out-of-the-way farmers who have taken tractors on the roads. They're easy to stop because they're slow. They also keep them safe, because they will not shoot, they will not fight, they will humbly accept parking tickets, they will lay their ears on each other. They're thanking you for stopping them, and they're moving on. They're coming home a little poorer for that ticket they just got. But this really isn't a joke, because the police should be used for a completely different purpose than being on Żoliborz. Winter, summer - some policemen will soon be able to plant roots there. In one place stands from dawn to new and guards one house. Let's get to the point, sir. Please refer to the documents. But it's all on the table. All this concerns the safety of all Poles. [[Applause]] It cannot be that one of the greatest Poles is concerned with safety, and everyone is facing danger on the roads. You have to take care of... ...murdered, right? Let's get to the point, sir. We have already heard too much about these murders in this Chamber, Member. We talk about the safety of all Poles and we need to raise security, investment should be. It's not enough. I didn't find anything in this report that would convince me, and it convinced our club to accept this report. First of all, you need to talk to the opposition and not make road investments and increase safety only where there is a PiS-owski mayor, a ghetto, only where there is the most dangerous road, where there is the worst surface, where people can't go because they're turn-on and they're waiting for it. Then road safety in Poland will be much better. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u266	Are you filing a motion for rejection? No? Okay, I get it. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz will speak on behalf of the Confederation's circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u267	This report confirms once again the long-term trend in road accidents with a steady increase in the number of cars and users and roads. You have to realize the scale of this success. Of course, the success of Polish drivers, not of the government, not of other ministers who always attribute this effect to themselves, but above all drivers who simply drive carefully, buy better cars and thus can drive better. The government can contribute to this by building better ways. With this it is different, but there is some progress, and it is also seen in these statistics to a certain extent. However, it is, of course, significant that these falls are not even in all categories of accidents, and for example. you can see that the category of fatal accidents involving pedestrians is not covered by the downward trend, and even we have a slight increase, but it is within the limits of some fluctuations, so we can say that it is rather stable, so this growth has been inhibited. Why? That is why, in this segment, the legislator is probably the most involved in the legislation. In this segment there are various unthinkable social actions, which de facto tend to invite pedestrians under the wheels of cars, testing brakes and dangerous behaviour. We have cyclists, for whom there was also a completely absurd idea to delete the rule banning entry, for cycling, which, of course, ended in many tragedies. So if the legislator didn't care so much about pedestrians, I think the number of pedestrian accidents would fall as fast as in other categories. This is also supported by ill-considered rules, such as the ban on crossing the road within 100 m of the pedestrian crossing, which causes constant inflation of pedestrian crossings, building further pedestrian crossings. Because when we place another dead zone of the no-passing zone, the driver is not able to pay attention all the time and pay due attention to the denser network of pedestrian crossings, which in Polish cities can be even a dozen on one kilometer. In order to keep this inflation, you should delete the absurd rule prohibiting the passage of 100 m from the passage, because what is more dangerous in the passage of 70 m from the passage than in the passage of 110 m from the passage? This is exactly the same danger, so there is no reasonable justification for the provision. Unfortunately, the report is also based on very superficially collected, very questionable data - we are talking about analyses, the word "analysis" sounds proud - the analysis of arbitrary decisions of a police officer who writes something there in the report. We do not systematically analyse what happens to this data as a result of a judicial review. That's not the data in this report. The final data, the different conclusions, the posts are only as good as the output data, if at first we have an arbitrary decision, often unmotivated, then at the end we get a little useful graph. These data are susceptible to numerous overinterpretations, and even favor them, because that is where we have a constant comparison with the assumed arbitrary ceiling that we would like to achieve, which, of course, cannot succeed, because it is assumed that the number of accidents will decrease evenly, even faster than before. We know that the closer we get to zero, the slower the accidents get. The drop from 800 to 700 is much easier to achieve than the drop from 100 to zero, I think everyone understands. So you can't assume a permanent drop in absolutes. Therefore, it is known in advance that this cannot work. Once again, for the second year in a row, as I listen to this discussion, there is the same absurd suggestion that we have some problem with the increasing number of accidents in the 60+ group. Well, it can't not grow because these people are coming. It is absolutely logical and inevitable that if a group becomes more numerous in society, the number of accidents involving it will increase proportionally. The important thing is that it's falling in general. If there's a demographic shift next year, if it's born, I don't know, $1,000. People with green hair will increase the number of accidents involving people with green hair. It's not gonna be anything weird, it's gonna be the result of a change in demographics. We will therefore probably abstain from voting on this report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u268	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! They finish work related to the priority of pedestrians. It is very good that, with regard to the three projects we are working on, the reports of the Committee on Infrastructure will probably be drawn up tomorrow. It's about time, because, High Izbo, in 2019 2909 people died, but of which 793 pedestrians. I would like us to be aware that 250 people were killed in the pedestrian crossing, and 3646 were injured. This is a big challenge. And first of all, I would like to point out that we are an ageing society. The proportion of older people in society grows every year. And for them too, we should guarantee clear, good rules that will protect them in this place, which is prepared for all of them. It's a pedestrian transition that should be a safety oasis. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The dog should always be the first. It is the driver who should give up his place, his priority, that allows him to walk through the street peacefully. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to repeat at this point the question I asked a year earlier and unfortunately I did not receive an answer. Have you also taken into account, when preparing this document, when examining the causes of road accidents, whether any impact on the cause of road accidents could have on the driver's use of day-riding lamps instead of those commonly used by most drivers of passing beams? The regulations in our country, of course, allow the use of daylights during the day with good visibility, but it can be different. Many Polish drivers continue to complain that cars driving on daylights are less visible when passing out than vehicles with passing beams on. Hence my question: Does the use of daylights instead of passing beams affect the increased number of accidents? Have you carried out this analysis? I hope this time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'll get an answer. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u272	Thank you, sir. Mr Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u273	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As important as safety is in the pedestrian area, no one needs to be explained today. During the work of the subcommittee, there was a lot of talk about it, and it's probably going to be in this room today. Unfortunately, many crossings for pedestrians outside the built-up area and within national roads are poorly lit, poorly or poorly marked. Very often we meet with a lack of speed limitation in the area of such crossings outside the built-up area. I know a few places where accidents happen. I therefore ask the Minister, "Is there an audit of the state of marking and lighting for pedestrians on national roads, and if so, how many such places are there and what is the timetable for removing these irregularities?' Please respond in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u274	Thank you. Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition, another question. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The report shows an increase in fatalities, an increase in collisions - not optimistic data. But how can optimistic data be when there are many neglects about which in a moment. Example - pavement in Chmielenie near the national road No 3 towards Zgorzelec. The movement is growing very fast. Heavy freight. Meanwhile, the people are asking, appealing, protesting, I am writing constant interpellations and questions - and nothing. There is no permission to build a sidewalk for several hundred thousand zlotys. In such a sensitive place. The answer is the same: priorities, highways, expressways, bypasses. Can't our country afford several hundred thousand zlotys to give opportunities and ensure the safety of Poles? Is this a basic need, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Or is this the dream of the 22nd century? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u276	Thank you, Member. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. I understand we're connecting remotely. Do we have a connection? Do we? We don't. No, they can't connect. In that case, Mr Marek Rząsa, the Civic Coalition. You are welcome to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u277	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The document does not provide information on accidents involving wild animals. However, according to the police chief's records, their numbers are increasing, as are the number of people killed and badly injured as a result of such accidents. Unfortunately, the existing legislation relating to this type of accident completely blurs out the responsibility, starting with the so-called. responsibilities of the State Treasury, through local governments, road managers, and ending with hunting wheels. A road accident involving a wild animal practically makes it impossible to obtain any compensation for the health and material damage caused by the accident or requires a very long and expensive judicial route. Each driver who has survived such an event knows that even with a very conservative driving, it is impossible to avoid the event and the damage caused is significant. Therefore, I ask the Minister: Does the Ministry have up-to-date full data on the number of road events involving wild animals? How many drivers apply for compensation per year from the abovementioned year. persons for damage caused by an unbridled collision with an animal on the road? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What percentage of applications are rejected and what are the main reasons why they are rejected? I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u278	Thank you, sir. We have a remote link with Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska. For this reason, I ask you very much, Madam, to ask me a question. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u279	Yes. Thank you very much. I wanted to ask you a question about the situation in Wielkopolska Voivodship. According to this information, as far as the Wielkopolska voivodship is concerned, both the number of accidents and the number of deaths have increased significantly. The indicators are higher than the national average, while Wielkopolska has the lowest number of accidents caused by or involving drunk drivers. The number of accidents increased by 20% and the number of deaths by 7%, there is a high proportion of cyclists in these cases. I wanted to ask if the government would send funds to the Wielkopolska voivodship for some social sensitising campaign of both pedestrians and cyclists, regarding marking, driving and road-side attention. It's on one side. On the other hand, Wielkopolska is waiting for eight bypasses. Five of these bypasses don't even have designs. Will there be an accelerated work on bypasses for Wielkopolska? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u280	Thank you, Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition Club. Welcome to the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u281	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The changes in road traffic proposed by the government are, of course, a step in the right direction, but the situation requires not a step, but a decisive leap and bold action. In 2019 less than 3,000 people died on the roads. more than 10,000 people and more than 10,000 people. He's been badly injured. Each accident causes social costs, a burden on the health system and social security, while the amount of seats has not changed for more than 20 years, although wages have increased significantly over the course of time. A few years ago in Finland, former Nokia Director for speeding received a mandate of 116 thousand. The euro, because there, the amount of mandates depends on income. In Poland, 100 or 200 PLN would pay for such exposure to danger. Each day of this pathology causes others to lose their lives and health on the roads. When the government presents a proposal for change [[♪ The bell ♪]] the amounts of criminal mandates? Polish society cannot afford to maintain a paradise for road pirates. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u282	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u283	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, almost every year we discuss the report. I must say that I am systematically asking during this debate whether there will be a change in the direction of ensuring safe crossings for pedestrians. This is not about legal solutions, but rather about technical solutions: firstly, the appropriate programme, secondly, the relevant changes in legislation. I must say that after these few years of speaking, for the first time I heard from the Minister a few days ago at the committee meeting that there will be a programme to improve the safety conditions for pedestrians in transitions. And that's a step in the right direction. That's what I'm saying. On the other hand, I have questions about further steps, which is the issue of technical requirements on built or rebuilt roads, especially in built-up areas. Self-governments often build, and good. On the other hand (the bell) pedestrian crossings are often located on roads where there are two lanes. These, let's say, technical conditions should be a little tightened. Does the Ministry work in this direction? The second question concerns the cameras located at the crossings. There were supposed to be cameras... Thank you. ...there was supposed to be a photo-radio program that caught people driving through the red light... Mr... ...there's no such thing as that. Is there any work in this direction? Thank you. And the issue of the technical condition of vehicles imported from abroad. Does the Ministry intend to tighten up the conditions for these vehicles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u284	Thank you very much. Another question, Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u285	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Polish roads are among the most dangerous in Europe. What's more, unfortunately, this state doesn't change at all. In 2015, 2938 people were killed on the roads, in 2016, 3026, in 2017-2831, in 2018-2862 and in 2019 - a return of 2909 deaths. During these 5 years 15 thousand people died on Polish roads. persons. I would like to address Minister Adamczyk, who unfortunately is not in the Chamber with us, but maybe he is following the proceedings online to make him realize it. You're from Małopolska, for five years of PiS rule on the roads, the whole Limanowa died. And in Małopolska we also have the largest number of accidents in the whole of Poland in terms of the number of inhabitants. Road safety experts are clear: on the one hand prevention, on the other hand road investment. We have tabled amendments to the budget for the following year: Mszana Dolna bypasses, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Gorlic, Grybowa and Limanova, a knot in Krzyszkowice. I appeal to you, Minister, to convince your club to support these amendments so that innocent citizens will not die on the roads of Małopolska any more. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u286	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition, with another question. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This report has gaps that are worthwhile or need to be completed. That's what both of my questions are devoted to. The first concerns children and young people, minors who die on the road. I didn't find any information about it, and it's extremely important. I've found information on the age group's programs, but it's less important. It is more important whether there is progress in this area or less children have died in relation to 2018, fewer children have suffered damage. I'm asking for very detailed information in the courtroom and in writing. Second question. I didn't find any information on the number of drivers driving under the influence of narcotics, alcohol, and drugs either. It seems to me that such information should be compared, how many drivers there were, how many police included such drivers in 2018, in 2019, as it is distributed in different voivodships, because the local government will also take up this fight. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a group of extremely dangerous criminals. Extremely dangerous for young people, for children who travel especially in small towns and have to travel to school. Not right now, but the time will come when they will, we hope. That's the necessary information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u288	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I cannot agree with such opinions, which I have heard here, that the state of Polish roads does not change. Perhaps this is not a legitimate statement, because there were a lot of investments. On the other hand, there is also a discrepancy between the state of motorways and national roads and the state of district roads and communal roads. Important progress is needed in this regard. This applies in particular to the separation of pedestrian traffic and vehicle traffic. I think that this programme should be strengthened, as should all issues relating to collisionless crossings and safety when crossing the road. This, of course, is a very desirable direction. On the other hand, I think all of this must be linked to prevention. You can't do this without prevention. In particular, I think that the children's mobility education programme has been abandoned. After all, in a moment they will be participants in traffic, and new technologies, such as electric scooters, make them very active. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think that this correlation of what we call prevention, teaching, technical solutions and investment is also needed here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u290	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Coalition of Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Like Mr Grzyb, Minister, I cannot agree with the fact that we have some stagnation. All experts say that safety improves with the number of newly built roads, provided that there are construction criteria that take into account improvements in safety and traffic. And I will give you, Minister, an example of the national road 11 from Poznan to the north. This is an episode between Poznan and Oborniki. Extreme intensity, extreme number of road events. You haven't touched anything in the last few years. But where Minister Chefnernaker, where Minister Brudziński is, Koszalin, the area where there is small traffic, few accidents, there are billions spent with momentum, is concreted and there is a road. If the criteria dominate, that's the indicators, Minister. By 2015, we have been lowering well, and since 2015 these accident rates have been standing. Please, come to your senses. I ask you to reflect on this. Building roads must be based on wise criteria. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u293	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, For several years the number of fatalities in Poland has remained constant. Okay. $3,000. people die every year in road accidents in Poland. It's like every year one small town disappears in Poland. We're in third place in Europe, but from the end. The number of deaths in Poland per million is 77 and the EU average is 51. We are separated from the countries that are at the forefront by a gap, a twofold gap. So I have a question, please ask a very concrete answer: What concrete solutions will the Polish government propose to reduce the number of deaths on Polish roads? Let me remind you that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, during his exposé, declared that he would prepare a bill to strengthen the safety of pedestrians. Took him a year. The bill prepared by the members of the Civic Coalition was also in the freezer. I'm asking you to make the solutions that I hope you will. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In a moment, they were faster than next year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u294	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Papke, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u295	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to refer in my question to the words of Minister Weber, who said that the most important thing is that no one on our Polish roads should die in car accidents. Minister, how does this fit into the facts? The 2020 NIK report deals with the "Programme for the decommissioning of hazardous sites', you certainly know it, implemented by the General Director of National Roads and Motorways. No one's accusing the program's preparation is unreliable. The wrong roads have been modernised, implementation is ineffective and miserable. In fact, the number of fatalities in accidents has not changed since 2015. This is approx. 2900 people every year. So my question is, how does the government want to change, modify this program to make it more effective? I think we all understand here that higher efficiency is a much smaller number of road fatalities in car accidents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u296	Thank you, sir. The next question will be asked by Marek Rutka, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Even the best revision of the rules will not increase the skills of drivers, and it must be made clear that they are the cause of accidents to the greatest extent. Improving the quality of roads alone will not eliminate accidents, because Polish drivers are simply poorly trained. It must be made clear that moving on motorways, which were supposed to be safer than roads with lower categories, is in fact not. The training system lacks training on the motorway during driving courses. Polish drivers on both their home highways and outside the country cannot get on the road properly, change lanes fluently, or mark the vehicle that crashed. Hence my question: When will the driving licence program be extended to include practical driving skills on motorways? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u298	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club, with another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A comparative analysis of the state of road safety in voivodships in 2019 shows that in Warmia-Mazury voivodeship, as in previous years, the highest percentage of accidents caused by excessive speed and tree invasion remained. The structure of accidents is dominated by pedestrian accidents. This shows how important this problem is and how lacking solutions are in this area. Therefore, I have a question: What concrete actions and investments do you intend to take, the Minister of Infrastructure, to change these ungrateful statistics on Warmia and Mazury and Powiśle? I also believe that this analysis of proposals is lacking, i.e. really concrete solutions to change these statistics. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u300	Thank you. Another question, near the Confederation, Mr Artur Dziambor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u301	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listen to some of my fellow Members, and I have the impression that some have something that I once called anti-carism. This is a specific confession that I think is unfortunately getting stronger, and I don't like it very much. Here in some people I also hear dreams of any ministry or government being able to make people stop dying on the streets. That's not entirely possible. It's like we have statistics that every year some people get killed who've been trampled by hippos, right? And, unfortunately, there is no solution to that either. That's just the way it is. On the other hand, I wanted to make a very specific point, maybe unrelated to the subject, but nevertheless, the roadblocks on the wheels established by the city guard. I understand that a car can sometimes stand so that it blocks traffic, it can stand so that it blocks the sidewalk and then you have to go around, it can stand in an illegal place, and I also understand that it should get a ticket for it, so the ticket can be issued and this driver can of course be (the bell) with this mandate, but this blockade makes him stand there for this illegal place for an hour, two hours, longer. Why? Why don't we just give it up? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u302	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland, with another question. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u303	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are several national roads in the Łódź Voivodship, which require urgent intervention on road safety issues. The first road is road 48 from Tomaszów Mazowiecki through Spała, Inowłodz, the commune of the Holy. Here, for years, people have been demanding intervention on improving road safety. Really tragic events take place both on the famous episode in the village of Poświętne, at the altitude of Anielina and in Spala, which everyone in Poland knows well. Question: "What is the Ministry going to do next year?" The second issue is road 70 and the town of Mokra Law near Skierniewice. There, the inhabitants also demand intervention. It would be good if money was planned for the ring road, but they also want other issues to improve road safety. And then there's Route 72 from Rawa Mazowiecka through Gold. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Will there be people in this place, for example, sidewalks? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u304	Another question, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u305	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Road safety is not only the state of road infrastructure and legislation, but also how state services behave and how they deal with legislation, including traffic regulations. Therefore, a specific question, Minister: How many traffic accidents were there in 2019 involving state services, State Security Services, Police and other services? Many times we had information that such accidents occurred with the participation of SOP drivers. We also remember exactly how the column - then the BOR - was trampled by a seiciento in Małopolska, a column with the Prime Minister. Therefore, I would like to ask for very precise information: How many accidents were there in 2019? And I'm asking for your answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u307	What this report confirms is my concern that the proposal to limit at night speed from 60 km/h, the permissible speed from 60 to 50 km/h has no ratio legis, there is no justification. The report does not contain such data as would entitle it to do so. There is no evidence that drivers driving at night between 50 and 60 km/h cause more accidents than those driving at 40 to 50 km/h. Therefore, the fear that this change is completely meaningless is confirmed. Why are you making it? Second question: Why does this report compile data on the number of accidents from Poland with data from other countries, without reference to data comparing the density of roads with highway class or express road? It is impossible to compare the number of accidents from a country such as Germany, which has practically a motorway between every major city, with the situation (The Bell) when Polish drivers have to deal with much more difficult conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u308	Thank you, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, the Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u309	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Road-rail crossings are particularly dangerous places. There are collisions that most often have serious consequences when it comes to victims. One in three, one in four accidents in a drive-by ends in death. Although there were fewer accidents in 2019, there were more accidents with fatal consequences. The solution to the problem of rail crossings is the domain of the Minister of Infrastructure, because neither the PLK nor the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways will solve these problems themselves. A specific programme dedicated to these journeys is needed. We need to build multi-level crossroads. This is the perfect solution, where you need more budget resources (the bell), but it will pay off, not only because there will be fewer victims, but also because there will be no need to slow down before rail crossings for railway vehicles. There's going to be an increase in capacity. Everyone's gonna benefit from it. Consider this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u310	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition. Please ask me to ask you a question, Madame.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u311	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the occasion of our debate on road safety, I would like to ask you about the issue of universal availability for training and cycling card exams for children and young people up to 18 years old. We know that the bike is becoming a more popular everyday mode of transport. This applies to adults and children. I know that the document said that in 2019 an analysis of the availability of training and the bike card exam was to be made, but because of the lack of data, this analysis was not carried out and this suggests itself that the current bike card system is not working. That is why I wanted to ask the following questions: Despite the lack of this analysis, does the Ministry plan to reform the bike card? Would it be possible, like other countries, to take into account such an aspect of the matter, the question of whether this card should be universal, so that all children will have access to training and to the card exam during the course of education? It's not a duty, it's a chance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u312	Thank you, Member. The last question will be asked by Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u313	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In big cities we often have two-lane streets and there are pedestrian crossings so that one of the cars will give way to a pedestrian and the other one will arrive at a great speed. This often ends with dangerous events, and even, for example. in the already known case of events from ul. Socrates, unfortunately, also ends in death. Very common are e.g. in Warsaw cases of overtaking and bypassing cars in the area of pedestrian crossings. What are the penalties for this? Depending on whether this is about circumvention or overtaking, the penalty is PLN 300.500. For lack of a ticket in public transport, the penalty is PLN 260. These are also incomparable amounts against those that Mr Nitras is being punished for speaking here in the Sejm. In Warsaw there are more than 4 thousand. unsignatured transitions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask you whether you provide any fund for improving the safety of pedestrian crossings for local governments, because Warsaw has been doing this audit for 5 years and spent more than PLN 100 million on improving the safety of pedestrians. It would be useful to support local authorities through investments, not to allocate these funds, as has happened to you, within the framework of a local investment fund. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u314	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The State Secretary of the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Rafał Weber, will answer the questions raised by the Members. Come in, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u315	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Thank you for this discussion, thank you for the time devoted to the debate on road safety in 2019, in which many historical statements, many statements referring to the past, have also been made. That's good. That's how this debate should look. I agree with some of your statements in principle, but I disagree with a large majority. I have noted one curiosity: the opposition demands an increase in the amount of traffic tickets. Such a request, which was made harshly by one of your fellow Members, was accepted with thunderous applause. It's worth noticing, we'll see what happens in the future. The State is not in a position to enforce fines. Mrs... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Rafał Weber: It is also important to understand that road safety is affected by many elements: investment, which I repeat all the time, legislation, educational actions, actions that make it clear how to drive the car properly or to move as a pedestrian. We all have an impact on road safety. This wording is clear, clear and consistent with reality. With regard to the State Protection Service - and this is also good information for the opposition - during the term of office 2011 and 2015 of these accidents or road events involving the State Protection Service, then the BOR, there was more than the last term, i.e. the first term of office of the Government of Law and Justice, so that you can clap, because here this improvement in road traffic also occurred, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! An important issue here is investment: investments in the construction of high-speed roads, but also point investments that are linked to the network already in existence. As regards new investments, the National Road Construction Programme focuses mainly on expressways and motorways. At the moment, this program is worth PLN 165 billion. In the last five years, we have increased funding for this programme by almost PLN 60 billion just to do it faster to do more. All these investments, which are outside the limit, are being prepared. Work is underway to draw up a technical and environmental study on, for example, the section of the S11 express road mentioned here. On the other hand, those that are already being implemented are much further advanced. The funds were needed to design and build them. Therefore, they are in the implementation phase and the others are in the preparatory phase. I am convinced that when financial resources for real implementation are needed, they will also be allocated to these new investments. Circuits. The programme of construction of 100 bypasses - 28 billion PLN. It's about building 100 bypasses in national roads. Thanks to the extension of the Self-Government Road Fund, about which we will be able to support the construction of bypasses in voivodeship roads. So that we will launch another tool to support this type of investment. Hundreds of millions of zlotys dedicated to improving road safety each year are aimed at point investments such as pavements, light signals, roundabouts, but also wider modernizations, e.g. adjustment of roads to a load capacity of 11,5 t. On the other hand, this is very good information - we want to launch from next year's program "Safe infrastructure', which will be dedicated only and exclusively to the lighting of pedestrian crossings, the construction of pavements - especially in built-up areas - the construction of roundabouts, light signals, traffic separators, coves so as to focus to a large extent on vulnerable road traffic participants. The funds for this purpose have already been prepared, they have probably already been transferred to the National Road Fund account by amending the budget law for 2020. So that when the Council of Ministers adopts a special resolution under which this programme will be set up, and this will happen at the beginning of next year, we will implement it. Self-government roads. The Self-Government Road Fund mentioned by me is PLN 39 billion on a scale of 10 years - from 2019 to 2028, PLN 6 billion in 2019 and PLN 3,2 billion in 2020. [[♪ The bell ♪]] PLN 3,2 billion in 2021. Thousands of tasks on municipal and district roads are already under way. Some have been completed, others continue. This will also have a positive impact on road safety, and in a situation where changes extending the Self-Government Road Fund will enter into force - there is a chance that this year - we will be able to raise funds to start calls to support building or lighting safe passageways for pedestrians on local roads. I talked about this today at the infrastructure subcommittee meeting. There's a chance. With regard to the very detailed questions for which a written reply has been requested, I would like to assure you that it will, of course, be drawn up. When it comes to, for example, on the questions of Mrs Fabisiak - p. 15 of this report relates precisely to minors, to children. There is a constant structure: the number of accidents, the number of victims, age ranges from 0 to 6 years, 7 to 14, 15 to 17 and later persons who enter the age of 18. As regards the provisions relating to stronger restrictions for drivers under the influence, such provisions were introduced during the previous term of office. Ladies and gentlemen! Personally, I'm glad none of the clubs filed a motion to reject this report. I think that he himself was - at first I said it - prepared in a reliable, substantive manner. Statistics reflect everything that happened on Polish roads in 2019. By the epidemic, 2020 was definitely better by reducing traffic. I hope that the laws and investments that are being implemented and implemented in the future will contribute to the fact that in the coming years we will face a decrease in the number of accidents, the number of victims and the wounded, and the Polish roads will be safer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u316	Thank you very much, Minister. Your marshal, correct. Wait a minute. Mrs Fabisiak, as corrected, please. I wanted to speak, too. 30 seconds in correction mode. Good. But I don't think your name was mentioned. Now I volunteered. But the minister's speech wasn't there. The Minister did not refer to you, but did refer to you. You're welcome, my fellow Member. But to the point.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u317	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! You didn't understand me. I meant the comparison. If there are so many programmes that you describe to educate young people to move safely while there is no comparison, which shows how and how many children are killed, how many were injured in accidents in 2017 or even in 2018 and 2019. This makes it impossible for us to see the effectiveness of these programs. This is essential - I am already finishing my statement - especially when children have to go to school and go to school, they will be exposed. So this education... The state should continue to examine the degree of this - continuous evaluation, monitoring - how effective the educational activities that are undertaken by the resort are. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u318	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak was corrected, although not mentioned by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u319	Yes, Your Marshal, but thank you very much, because I would like to refer to the interesting information that Mr. Minister gave during his speech. Namely, the Minister raised the question of a new instrument of government funding for the construction of bypasses in the voivodeship roads. The Minister suggested that funding under this instrument would soon start. Do you already know that such funding will be carried out in a continuous recruitment mode, whether there will be a competition and whether next year such towns that count on ring-roads within the voivodeship road will be able to count on a competition or continuous recruitment when it comes to funding. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u320	Thank you very much. I understand the Minister would like to refer to that, wouldn't he? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u321	Ladies and gentlemen! About an hour. 17.15 The meeting of the Senate committees was launched: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Local Government, which will assess the changes in the Act on the Fund for Roads of Local Government. As part of the changes, we increase the value of the fund by PLN 3 billion, and we also allow new beneficiaries to do so. These are, among other things. voivodship infrastructure managers, i.e. voivodship roads, who will be able to apply for funds for the construction of bypasses of these roads. The recruitment will be conducted by the Ministry of Infrastructure. For this purpose we have 2 billion PLN, and we will see. If we use PLN 2 billion in one call, because there will be so many applications, the entire pool will be exhausted. If the proposals are less and there are resources available for further years, we will repeat this call. Everything will depend on the number of applications, but also on the quality of applications. Contrary to what you suggest, the quality of the proposal, the justification of the investment in question, influences the acquisition of funding. We look forward to the very good conclusions of the voivodship road managers and then such support will be given. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u322	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Committee on Infrastructure requests the adoption of print document No 585. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Information on implementation in 2019 of the multiannual programme Mon.: The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the 2020 work schedule (Print No 319) together with the position of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation (Print No 538). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr. Mark Grybarczyk to present the information. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u323	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The report on the protection of the sea shores contains a comprehensive range of investments in the implementation of the protection of the sea shores. It is a multi-annual programme which has been adopted and is being continued. The value of this project is PLN 34 million. The project for this value was carried out in 99.9% , i.e. 33 989 thousand. zł. The difference is due to the fall in prices in the implementation of the project, so the whole range will be completed by the end of the year. In the document, we have indicated to you a number of our investments to be implemented, which have been listed in detail in this document. First of all, it concerns the repair, the repair of the quay, the execution of all kinds of reinforcements, the implementation of tasks primarily to combat erosion and increase security in this area. This is also extremely important in terms of protecting port infrastructure, as large ports and small ports across the coast. The future programme will also be implemented on the basis of measures, i.e. it has specific funding, and as part of investments that have been and will be eligible for such actions. I think that this is one of the most important programs in terms of, above all, maintaining security and free access to the beaches, which is also defined by this program in addition to infrastructure, so these are: refutation, playback of the beaches and securing free access to the sea for tourist purposes. This is, of course, extremely important in the context of other industries, such as fisheries, and includes the reconstruction of briefs or bridges for landing in the field of fisheries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u324	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask Mr Dariusz Evening to present the position of the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased, on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, to present a report to the committee on the work on printing information No 319 from the implementation of the multiannual programme in 2019.: The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the 2020 work schedule. The printed matter and the documents presented are the result of the Act of 28 March establishing a multiannual programme for the protection of the shores of the sea. This programme has been implemented since 2003. As far as data for 2019 are concerned, the budget includes an amount of PLN 34 million and, as the Minister mentioned, this task was carried out in 99.8%. Therefore, it can be said that this task has been carried out. Two tables are attached to this report - one table concerns the performance of tasks for 2019 and the other is the planned tasks for 2020. During the discussion, the committee, Members and Members pointed out, firstly, that, as far as specific tasks are concerned, the needs are indeed greater than those of PLN 34 million. There were concrete examples of specific investments and questions concerning the activities carried out under this programme, particularly as regards the area of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship. On the other hand, no doubt everyone pointed out that this is a very important task that should be carried out, and on the part of the Minister, we have been assured that, with regard to the budget for 2021, the resources are also foreseen for this purpose. Therefore, the suggestion on the part of the committee was that Members might wonder whether the scope of the tasks should be increased in terms of the protection of the sea shores and the entire coastline in Poland. This conclusion follows the data that have emerged in this report, i.e. data on the implementation of the plan as a whole, from 2003, i.e. from 2004 de facto to December 2019, because at that time the expenditure from the state budget under this programme has closed down to 539 700 000. zł, which gives a performance of 59,24%. The entire programme is estimated at PLN 911 million, such were the announcements. Therefore, there was a suggestion to consider increasing the financial envelope for the implementation of this programme, taking into account the state of implementation for 31 December 2019. Indeed, in this law, which was adopted in 2003, these minimum expenditures are set at PLN 34 million and it can be said that the Minister of Finance is carrying out these tasks at that minimum level. On the other hand, the committee will undoubtedly urge the Minister and the Minister of Finance to try to increase expenditure on these tasks. In general, the conclusion in print No 538 is that the committee recommends that the High Sejm adopt the information from the implementation of the multiannual programme in 2019.: The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the 2020 work schedule. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u326	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Szałabawka will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Ah, you're an MP. You're welcome to join the club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u327	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Mr President, don't exaggerate with this Western Pomeranian province, because we have just had in the discussion here allegations that Western Pomeranian gets so much on the roads. But I keep my fingers crossed. It has been my honor to present on behalf of the Parliamentary Club the Law and Justice of the European Union a position on information on the implementation of the "Programme for the Protection of the Seashores" in 2019 contained in Seym Print No 319. The year 2019 was another year in which the Maritime Offices implemented the Marine Coast Protection Programme. The naval offices in Gdynia, Słupsk and Szczecin had to use the 34 million. Performance of tasks in 2019 - and this is worth mentioning at every opportunity and every time you spend money - it amounted to 33 989 thousand, which was, as my predecessors have already said, 99.9% planned measures. This is the largest implementation of the Maritime Coast Protection Programme in recent years. The information contains the required elements which the Minister responsible for Maritime Affairs should submit to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, namely information on the implementation of the tasks resulting from the programme in the previous year and the timetable for the following year. The information provided by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the implementation of the Law of 28 March 2003 on the establishment of a multiannual programme , the programme for the protection of the shores of the sea in a coherent manner shows the scope of the work carried out and the planned work on the protection of the shores of the sea, and the data contained in the information on the spending of funds for the protection of the shores of the sea do not raise any objections, we see it. The information shows that in 2019 artificial beach power tasks were carried out - as important as many times was people's access to the beaches, because it is important that these beaches are not closed, just as the forests used to be, that beaches are accessible to all inhabitants - construction, renovation and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements and monitoring of sea shores. It is worth noting that in 2019 the programme was planned to carry out tasks of 8 km of coastline and that seashore security was carried out for a total length of almost 13 km. This performance of the meter has been achieved as a result of the introduction of new tasks to be carried out during the financial year, which demonstrates the smooth implementation of the programme in 2019. In 2020, 34 million PLN was planned for implementation under the programme for artificial beach power supply, reconstruction and construction of shore reinforcements and monitoring of the seashore. These tasks are a continuation of some of the activities of previous years. This indicates that the protection of the sea shores is implemented consistently and systematically. Therefore, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, I would like to ask the High Sejm to adopt a document presented by the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the implementation of the Law on the establishment of a multi-annual programme for the protection of the shores of the sea in 2019, together with a timetable for 2020, contained in print No 319. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u328	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Aziewicz will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As already mentioned, this information is the result of the provisions of the 2003 Act on the establishment of a multiannual programme entitled "The Maritime Coast Protection Programme'. The main objective of this programme is to protect the coastal shores against flooding, including damage removal, stability of the coastline and prevention of beaches disappearance. The state budget for 2019 secures expenditure of a total amount of PLN 34 million for its implementation. The planned actions included artificial beach power supply, construction, renovation and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements and monitoring. These expenditures have been carried out almost in full. According to the Act referred to above, the implementation of the programme in a given year is the length of the coastline protected from erosion and flooding on the sea side calculated in kilometres. In 2019 8 km of coastline was planned to be carried out. At the end of 2019 seashore protection against erosion and flooding was carried out on the sea side for a total length of more than 12 km. Higher performance of the value of the meter was achieved as a result of the introduction of new tasks during the financial year. High Seym! During the meeting of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, we listened to detailed information from individual maritime offices. This information did not raise much controversy. On the other hand, the discussion raised a very interesting problem of speeding up water levels and the need to prepare for long-term change. The responses of government representatives were general and we will certainly return to this topic in the near future. Traditionally, when discussing the protection of the sea shores, I would like to draw attention to the need for security, security in the region of Klifu Orłowski in Gdynia, where dangerous lands have taken place in the recent past. So far there have been no casualties, but the protection of the lives and health of people walking there is still a serious challenge. Representatives of NGOs from Gdynia, paying attention to threats, postulate among others. arrangement at a distance of approximately 200 m from the shore of the stone submersibles. As a result, after the necessary reflection, i.e. pouring sand out when dredging the port channels, the beach as a natural wave saver will not only be much wider, but will also be able to sustain itself. I am aware that in the case of a cliff, the competences of two ministers are intertwined: the environment and infrastructure, which is why I have tried to interest the President of the Council of Ministers after one of the dangerous slides, unfortunately without any positive effect. The cliff is rapidly erosion. The Prime Minister and representatives of these resorts keep their heads in the sand. I feel like it's gonna be the same if there's an unfortunate accident. So far, the protection of the cliff is that they are standing there or there are warning boards, and people are still walking on the landslide. High Seym! Since the Marine Coast Protection Programme was carried out both financially and factually in 2019 and the 2020 plan did not raise controversy, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I recommend the High House to adopt the documents presented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u330	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Club will be presented by... He's still a friend. Pardon me, Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition, will take the floor in the second part. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u331	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! It must be added that the gestor of the means for this noble purpose, for this programme, is the maritime offices. Maritime offices often defend the sea shores with life at risk, as was the case in Strange, when a souvenir from World War II exploded under a working excavator. Unfortunately, it is often felt that they are defending these shores not only from the elements, but also from people, from us, from residents, tourists and investors, Minister. Self-governments, appreciating the work done by the maritime authorities, say with one voice that cooperation is none. Any agreement with this institution is pointless, it is simply a road through torment. It may seem that protecting the sea shores is an art for art, and the only aim of this work is to satisfy the professional ambitions of the officials responsible for it. It seems that even repairing old, decades-old pavements - to come and go to the beach, Minister - is something impossible by the sea office. You can't make a deal, you can't get permits, you can't do anything, even though local governments want to do it with their own money. There are situations such as: In the Rewal in 2019 the whole season was closed one of three to go down to the beach because the maritime office would not allow it to be repaired. It is also interesting that the maritime authorities themselves interpret the law in force and issue decisions amending it, such as the Construction Law, and shorten the legal deadline for the establishment of buildings which are not permanently related to land from the law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] 180 days to the will of an official - 150 or 160 days. To conclude, Minister, you are doing a good job of protecting the shores of the sea, so we will vote in favour of it, but you do not build social ties in the area. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u332	Thank you, sir. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, the position of the Left Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u333	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! A little over 100 years ago, Poland regained access to the Baltic Sea, and during that time we made a great deal of effort to make the most of the Baltic Sea's potential. The coast are challenges, especially those related to the safety of the coastal and industrial areas, and consequently jobs, as well as tourism, so important and for the inhabitants of that region, and for us. But the coast is also a unique European nature, numerous valuable habitats of plants, these are places of habitation of animals, these are estuaries of rivers with an entire ecosystem, unique landscape. That is why protecting the sea shores is absolutely crucial, because it depends not only on the well-being of people at very many levels, but also on whether we can preserve these valuable natural areas. We should therefore find solutions that will help to reconcile these two issues, to develop and build infrastructure, to ensure the safety and preservation of natural areas. According to the information presented by the Minister, in 2019 tasks such as artificial beach power supply, construction, repair and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements and monitoring were carried out. These are key tasks, good that there is this schedule, well that they are implemented. But does this mean that the shores of the sea are sufficiently protected in Poland? No. Because I would like to stress that our Polish Coast is in a very difficult situation. Here are some examples. Let's reach out to the 2019 NIK report on the protection of coastal areas. What's it say? In 22 out of 45 decisions taken by the directors of the maritime authorities concerning the use of the technical belt for purposes other than the maintenance of the shores in a state complying with safety and environmental requirements, irregularities were identified which authorised a negative assessment of the performance of these tasks, but the decisions were positive. Examples: Seasides and apartments 10 m away from the sea or an object which in Sands on the Vistula Meer was created on the low wet shore of the Vistula River, which threatens to melt it. It's just two examples, but there's actually dozens of them. Violation of permits, placing temporary buildings in the seaside belt is a constant practice. The reason - the recklessness of the Polish state, greed of great business, improper supervision, submission to development pressure, not thinking about consequences, not only for nature, but especially for people and their safety. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not that we can close our eyes to the devastation of the environment, thinking that it does not affect us in any way. Because the destruction of cliffs, dunes, marine landscapes, apart from the fact that it is a devastation of the environment, will sooner or later translate into the attractiveness of these areas for tourists. Rabbit development at the expense of nature, at the expense of the landscape, can result in tourists simply choosing different destinations, and fewer tourists are less jobs, unemployment, lack of prospects and frustration. Do we want to end up like Bulgaria or Spain, where hundreds of kilometers of coasts are concreted? If we neglect the protection of the shores, it will mean that we will not be adequately protected from even natural disasters, that the lives of the inhabitants, their health, their possessions will be in danger. It is therefore important that the maritime authorities cooperate well, but also apply the law, because we have the tools to stop this disaster. And the youngest Poles and Poles will then be able to give the sea in its best view, not concreteized, destroyed and threatening their safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u334	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u335	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The debate on the protection of the sea shores cannot take place without addressing the main challenges in the coming years. Such a challenge is also the excavation of the Vistula Mill. Such an investment will bring an end to the long-term dispute with Russia, increase the availability of the Hel-Elbląg waterway and contribute to the development of maritime transport in general. That's what you have to remember. Unfortunately, Poland lacks a long-term strategy for maritime policy and maritime security. And the tunnel is some kind of light in the tunnel. The question is what happens next. Also referring to the right topic, I admit that the implementation of the budget of the Marine Coast Protection Programme is really going well, it is at a decent level. However, there is also another problem that needs to be addressed here. Today's policy to protect the shores of the sea is often excluded from rational tourism and recreation policies, e.g. Starblocks, which are underwater or dense waves on the beaches, are killing the values of Polish beaches, e.g. in terms of water sports. Are you sure we want to protect only Polish shores in such a way that Poles have to do some water sports, travel abroad? Because the beach season lasts 2, 3 months, and some water sports can be practiced much longer, start already in the spring, end up even in the autumn. An example of such a little lack of rationality is e.g. the vicinity of the port in Łeba, where the breakwaters and constellations caused basically the wave to be extinguished, and this extinction of the wave caused a lack of tourists who would arrive, for example. do windsurfing or kitesurfing. That is why the Confederation calls for cooperation and consultation - because this is really important - with municipalities, with fishermen, with watermen and with sport environments. We want natural protection of the sea shores, but without multi-level consultation on specific sections, this could mean harm to ourselves. The maritime coast protection programme is not, fortunately, aimed at Polish fishing. This is an industry - this should also be mentioned on the occasion - very badly affected by EU policy, for example. by the Operational Programme, the sustainable development of the fisheries sector and coastal fishing areas, which financed, in principle, the permanent and temporary cessation of fishing activities. In short, the European Union was simply bribing Polish fishermen to abandon their work in this industry. Poland has ceased to play a major role in the fisheries sector, and the natural wealth of the Baltic Sea has simply come to other Member States - all in the name of EU solidarity, solidarity, which we simply suffer from. It should also be noted that, due to the prohibition of fishing, for example. cod in the Baltic, as a result of a low population, part of the organisers e.g. tourist fishing has lost its livelihood and despite compensation and despite your promises, Minister, these people have simply lost their livelihood. By some miracle, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs and Inland Shipping forgot to support these people, too, at the time of their fishing bans. Unfortunately, it's another of the empty promises of the government. But, well, we've been able to get used to it for the last few years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u336	Thank you, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The coalition of Poland will be presented to the High House by Mr Jarosław Rzep. But did we manage to make it? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u337	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the first words, I would like to thank you, Minister, for what happened in 2019 to all those who carried out these tasks. Because I have to say that as far as the plan and implementation are concerned, it was implemented just as you assumed. On the other hand, we could probably be more ambitious when it comes to spending, but this is also contingent, as you know, on many things. It is a good thing, ladies and gentlemen, that when it comes to policy on the issue of the coastline, all the investments that are happening, this is probably the industry or the area in which we continue what we started. And for that too, Minister, thank you very much. Continuing what is still to be done, improving what has not been achieved - because many things have probably failed - but also listening to local governments, Mr Łącki spoke about it. In this area, Minister, I think there's a lot to be improved. However, local governments operate in this area. Of course we have many different interests, here we have security, here we have tourism, here we have fishing. We must often find a golden center. I would like to ask you very cordially, Minister, that in all the investments that you are planning, the element of consultation and listening to the interests of local governments be heard very, very strongly. Because it's very, very important. I will not refer to the investment of the measure, the excavation of the Vistula mine. Ladies and gentlemen, a colleague from the Confederation has spoken a great deal about how we will be independent. I have a different opinion on this, ladies and gentlemen, because I would like to see this phrase when it comes to the economy. I'm afraid I'm not looking for it here. On the other hand, Minister, if you don't mind, I'm going to go from this place to one topic that hurts a lot. I'm sure you know what I'm gonna say about Gryphia's repair yard. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few days we will have Christmas, and several days ago, Minister, your decisions have also been made by 201 people. We could talk about restructuring the company, we could talk about protecting this place, we could talk about protecting these shipbuilders. Minister, you realize exactly that these people won't drive 120 kilometers in one, 120 kilometers in the other direction every day after 8 hours in the car. It seems to me that there is still time to undo this wrong decision to save this place, to find the means to enable the Gryfia repair yard in Szczecin to implement its very ambitious - just but ambitious, Minister - plan, but not at the expense of the same plant. These are Polish shipbuilders. I think that... Besides, Minister, you have often talked about the fact that ships are not being built today and are being renovated today at the meeting of the Maritime Affairs Committee. If we're closing tonight, we're destroying it as if... There will be no going back to that in Świnoujście. I don't know if the port team will find a way to do that. They may not have this idea today, but Minister, it seems to me that the Polish state's reason today is to save these jobs, to save these shipbuilders, to give opportunities, not to send them back, let's say, home. From now on, they don't provide for three months' work, then they get briefings. It will be a few million PLN losses, Minister, losses. I'd rather we look for solutions, Minister. I encourage this because these people really want to work there, they want to work for Gryphia, within this plant - if there is no will to separate it - continue to function. Once again, Minister, from this place, please on behalf of these people. I don't know if you would have made them a better Christmas present today if you had told them: we're withdrawing this decision, we're retreating, we're looking for a way to restructure, but a restructuring that will allow those jobs there in Świnoujście to be saved. Minister, you're welcome. And for what you've done in this area we're talking about today, thank you very much. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u338	Thank you, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm closing the list of people willing to ask a question. I'm setting the time for the question - one minute. The first question will be asked by Marek Rutka, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u339	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The report of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 2019 did not leave a dry thread on how the directors of maritime offices approached the duties of care for the use of the seaside technical belt. The report by NIK was the best estimate of the functioning of the Maritime Office in Słupsk, which in 12 years did not correct the border of this belt. As a consequence, a number of irregularities were eliminated by the PiS government by the Maritime Authority in Słupsk, and the director responsible for the errors indicated in the report NIK made Deputy Director of the Maritime Office in Gdynia. However, I do not want to devote too much time to the staff policy of the so-called government. It's a good change. I have one specific question. This is about the state of the coastline on the Ustka - Nutowo section. Question: "Will, and if so, when will the artificial reef be made, which will reduce the destructive power of storms, which in turn gradually destroy both the beaches and the cliffs on this section of the Polish coast (the bell)?" [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u340	Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition. Marshal Terlecki, how glad I am. It'll be brief and strictly timed. Good morning, Mr. Marshal. I bow down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u341	Minister! High Izbo! I'll be digging into the subject: the maritime offices. In preparation for today's meeting, I called the wojites and mayors from West Pomeranian Voivodeship, Trzebiatowa, Rewala, Dziwnowa. I told you you'd be Minister of the Grybarczyk, and I asked what to say to him. They said to say hello, first of all. And secondly, they were going to say, Minister, do something really with these maritime offices, with our Szczecin maritime office. They do their job really well and everyone says it, but once again I say: cooperation with local governments does not have any. These are sometimes absurd situations that the mayor of Strange couldn't name 100 meters of pavement or promenade with 60-year-old albums, because the sea office didn't agree. He said no, and that's it. At his own expense, he wanted to do it. That's where people break their legs. We can't go down to the beach for people with disabilities or people with wheelchairs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the Reval they must lie one end to the other, because there is no one exit. There is one request: better cooperation between maritime authorities and local authorities. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u342	Thank you. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, also the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u343	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, what you can see is important, because if we improve the part of the shore that everyone is looking at, it will be a visible effect of some activity. On the other hand, we are dealing with such a typical, I would say, government approach to what needs to be done, which is solving problems that you can see, while those that you can't see are ignored. Such a problem, which is not seen at first glance, is the issue of pollution of the coastal area with those things that remained after the war. Now they are so dangerous that you can't see them, while the passage of time makes them increasingly dangerous and for the environment and for people. Therefore, the question is: Does the Ministry even plan any programme that would affect (the Bell) in any way these pollutants remaining after the war? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u344	Thank you. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u345	Dear Marshal, Minister! I'll read the letter: I ran a fishing company for a few years. From 1 January 2020, a total prohibition of fishing in the Baltic Sea in the eastern part has been introduced. Minister G grubarczyk has promised to help us many times, but none of this has worked out. He promised that our ships would be scrapped and we would get compensation so that we could start a new business from scratch. We were put to sleep with these promises. We let ourselves get, ugly speaking, worked. Our case went to the Prime Minister's office, who also declared to help us. By the end of the first quarter, we had some arrangements. However, we later received a letter that we could try to do what entrepreneurs can do as part of an anti-crisis shield. How are we supposed to do that if our activities are closed from the day the ban was imposed? It doesn't concern us at all. We haven't had much to live for in three months - that was a few months ago - we stayed with debts, instalments, ships that stand in ports and destroy. No one can even buy them back from us. We've gone into huge debts. We don't pay them back because we don't have any money. I would like to ask, Minister, what have you done about such ship owners? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u346	Thank you. Mr Marek Matuszewski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! And I would like to commend the Minister, because to be honest, if someone was in Jastrzębia Góra a few years ago and saw the beach narrowed down to 5 m in some places, and when someone was this year and saw almost 50 m - it is due To a large extent, the Minister's good policy and economy. Therefore I ask: Will these beaches go further, because we know that there is also Ostrowo done, to the west, in the municipality of Władysławowo, will they also be expanded? And will these shores be strengthened? The last case that's been brought up here. Some anxiety is felt because the Baltic Sea is beautiful, but whether the sunken chemical ammo poses a real threat and whether one thinks of some way of neutralising it, e.g. With EU funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u348	Thank you. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Marek G grubarczyk, will now speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u349	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you for giving us so many warm words to the maritime authorities that carry out these investments and, on the other hand, for supporting our report, because it is indeed good. Could there have been more? Of course. After all, the coast requires many, many investments if we want to restore them properly or protect them. At the same time, we know that no one has won with sea or floods. On this occasion, I would also like to remind you that investments were not only spent on funds from the multiannual maritime coast protection programme. It is also about the Operational Programme of Infrastructure and Environment, such as securing sections of the western coast - PLN 53 million, the protection of sea shores in the Helski Peninsula - PLN 75 million or the flood protection of Maritime Krynica - PLN 35 million. The whole range of protection of the sea shores in which we invest is important here. However, let me disagree with some of your statements. The problem of cooperation with local governments has been raised a number of times. I declare my willingness and willingness to cooperate far-reachingly. There's no problem for the officers to come in here. Or mayors with all the problems. However, we need to be aware that, on the one hand, we need to invest on the basis of very strict environmental standards, after obtaining permits or environmental impact reports, and on the other hand, we want to implement everything according to what individual glazeers expect. I think we will surely find a golden measure, but I would urge that local authorities also show far-reaching cooperation and dialogue. Of course, it is not absolutely true that the words addressed to us or to me by the Members of the Confederation, speaking of fishing, because every fisherman who could not fish during this period received compensation for temporary cessation of fishing or on the basis of many other programmes that were carried out, such as those concerning the removal of the so-called. litter, i.e. residues from fishing, nets and fishing gear. On the other hand, it is not true that the fishermen did not receive support. The regulation, which was adopted this year, transferring the amount of PLN 20 million, provided the possibility to obtain support in nearly 200 thousand. cases, for each vessel owner engaged in fishing. Such a company could use these funds for its current activities, for scrapping, it could also be retrained, so the possibilities for using these funds were very wide. It was the only social group in terms of professional dependence that had so much money to support its activities. Of course, the issue of non-explosion is extremely important to us. A special team was formed, but this team also operates in the international forum, within HELCOM, which is an international organisation and whose main agenda is to work on removing the explosions. It is about billions of dollars that need to be spent on this situation, so I don't think anyone will find such funding in Poland. The subject is monitored, mainly in the field of other wrecks. There is no danger, nothing negative comes out of them, and any areas that may pose a threat to the violation of these wrecks are specifically marked and monitored so that there is no interference there. Of course, there is also the issue of the Blade. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's so-called in the head. underwater reef that protects the natural reclamation of the shores. Only the entrance to the port is covered with starblocks, so it is not true, this coast is beautiful and highly appreciated by tourists. The last issue concerns Kępa Redłowska, the falling cliff. This is the area of the national park, and so on the one hand interference is very difficult, and on the other hand - this is what the management of the park shows - it is simply the natural erosion of this shore, which is an additional beauty. So our interference is definitely limited. Thank you very much for supporting our report. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u350	Thank you, Minister. Did the draftsman of the committee... He's not here. I therefore close the discussion. The Commission requests the adoption of information from the implementation of the multiannual programme in 2019.: The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the 2020 work schedule in print No 319. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2019 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners (print No 292) together with the position of the Board of Administration and Home Affairs (print No 639). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Bartosz Grodecki to present a report. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u351	Dear Marshal, Dear ladies and gentlemen, The Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration shall keep an IT register of real estate, as well as shares and shares acquired by foreigners without authorisation, as well as on the basis of the required permits and decisions issued - in the form of a computer database. It allows for monitoring trends in the acquisition of real estate, shares and shares by foreigners and analysis of the scale of interest of individual groups of entities in the acquisition of specific types of real estate and the degree of interest in such real estate in individual voivodships. The register is a database containing in particular information on the property in respect of which the Minister has issued a decision, the property acquired by foreigners and the companies in which foreign nationals have acquired or acquired shares. These data are primarily derived from notarial acts sent, court orders, and are obtained in the course of investigations and administrative proceedings carried out by the Authority. The fact that, despite the completion of all transitional periods - this is quite important information - in which permission to acquire property by foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation was required, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration is still the authority empowered to monitor the trading of immovable property with foreign nationals through the operation of this register. It should be pointed out that the provisions of the Law of 24 March 1920, which are probably the longest in force in the current legal order, are adapted to the requirements of European law and, in particular, to the freedom of movement of capital available to entities from States just under the Agreement on the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation. Thus, while foreigners outside the EEA and the Swiss Confederation are required in principle to obtain permission to acquire any real estate, foreigners from the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation have been free to acquire real estate in our country since 1 May 2016. In a situation where the acquisition of real estate by a foreigner requires authorisation - mainly for citizens of Ukraine or Belarus, this is the most common group applying for such permits - the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration makes an appropriate decision. In the case of agricultural property, the opinion of the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development is necessary. In comparison with the reporting data, it should be noted that both the number of permits issued in 2019 for the acquisition of land by foreigners and the area of the authorised property slightly increased compared to the previous 2 years. The above results, among others. of the increasing number of applications for permits for the acquisition of immovable property by foreigners entering the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, it should be noted that the register kept by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration makes it possible to actually monitor certain trends in the acquisition of real estate, shares and shares by foreigners and to analyse the scale of interest of individual groups of entities in the acquisition of specific types of real estate and the degree of interest in such real estate in individual voivodships. However, in order for it to be conducted, it is necessary, in a fair manner, to ensure that the documents relating to the acquisition by foreigners of real estate, shares and shares are fairly transmitted by courts and notaries, so that this register actually contains the data as complete as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! To conclude this brief speech by presenting the report of the Minister of the Interior on the implementation of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in 2019, I ask you kindly to accept it. Thank you, High Sejm, for your time and attention. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u352	Thank you very much, Minister. Now I ask Mr Paul Hreniak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u353	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the report by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2019 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, print No 292. After consulting the Sejm Bureau on 25 March 2020, the Marshal of the Sejm sent this report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, after its consideration on 30 September 2020, requests the adoption of the print report No 292. I would like to add that the discussion in the committee was substantive and calm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u354	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Paweł Hreniak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u355	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to speak on the agenda currently under review. In fulfilling the obligation laid down in the Act, the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration presented a report, in particular information on the permits issued, their nature and territorial distribution of the purchased property. He also provided information on real estate transactions made by citizens, among others. the countries of the European Union. It should be recalled that, as a general rule, the obligation to obtain authorisation applies to foreigners outside the European Economic Area and Switzerland, but the report submitted by the Minister, as I mentioned, also contains information on transactions concerning property purchased by citizens who do not need to be authorised by the Minister responsible. The document presented shows that in 2019 767 requests for permission to acquire real estate and shares in companies were received by the Ministry of Interior and Administration. Compared to 2018, there was a 19 percent increase in the number of applications. This is the level of growth that has been constant for the last few years. Of the applications for authorisation, more than 400 concerned land, 108 were granted for the acquisition of agricultural and forestry property, and 171 were granted for the acquisition of residential premises. In all these statements, the people of Ukraine were the largest group. It can be seen that the citizens of this country are increasingly connected with Poland, among others. by purchasing real estate. It should be noted that the biggest interest in land real estate permits by third-country nationals concerned Lubelskie and Mazowieckie voivodships, and in terms of criteria for the purchase of premises were Pomorskie and Zachodniopomorskie voivodships. The prime source of information, as already mentioned by the Minister, about the property acquired by foreigners is for the Ministry the discharge of notarial acts sent by notaries. Notaries are required to send the Minister responsible for the internal affairs of such acts. And, according to the report, even a few years of delay in sending these documents is a major inconvenience for the system. It creates obvious problems. Unfortunately, the number of acts sent by notaries after the deadline has increased in 2019 compared to 2018. As explained, appropriate disciplinary measures have already been taken through the Ministry of Justice in relation to notaries. I think it's important to point out here that the problem has been noticed and is being solved. The second part of the report primarily concerns citizens of European Union countries who in principle do not need to apply for authorisation. They are the main group of people who acquire real estate in Poland. According to the information provided, most of the land purchased by this group is intended for investment but also for housing purposes. In this group of transactions compared to 2018, there was a 4% increase in the number of documents from notaries. This indicator is similar at the level of the last few years. According to the data collected, in 2019 the most land property was purchased by our western neighbours. Moreover, it is similar in the case of purchases by private individuals. It is extremely important that the monitoring of transactions taking place involving foreigners, both those who need to be authorised and those whose purchase is recorded, be carried out in a reliable manner and on the basis of current data. Therefore, the Law and Justice Club welcomes all activities of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and the Ministry of Justice, which in this area are disciplined by notaries. On behalf of the Law and Justice Club, we recommend that the report be adopted. I would like to thank the Minister very much for presenting the document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The year 2019 was the third full year in which foreigners from countries of the European Economic Area, i.e. The European Union, Norway, Iceland, Liechtenstein and the Swiss Confederation could acquire agricultural and forestry property under the same conditions as Polish citizens, i.e. Since 1 May 2016, buyers from other countries still need to obtain the relevant permissions of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. On the basis of the MSWiA's report on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in 2019, 8690 land purchase transactions by foreigners with a total area of 5238 ha were recorded. I would like to remind you that in 2018 there were 7334 transactions that concerned 5036 ha. From the area acquired by foreigners in 2019 1349 ha were agricultural and forestry land, including 377 ha is forest land that was purchased in the case of 1279 transactions. The majority of the land was purchased by citizens and legal persons from Germany, and in terms of location they led the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship - 110 ha and Wielkopolska - 230 ha. For comparison, in 2018, it was 1044 transactions involving an area of 799 ha, of which 182 ha is forest land. This comparison shows that in the agricultural land group there has been a significant increase, i.e. by more than 500 ha, i.e. by 69% compared to 2018. Minister, I would ask you to comment on the reasons for such significant growth and how the buyers motivated their conclusions. Foreigners also acquired shares and shares in commercial law companies that owned or used perpetual land property. In 2019 670 such transactions were registered, which concerned 5879 ha. Compared to 2018, there was almost a fourfold increase in the number of transactions - I would remind you that in 2018 these transactions were 182 - and almost 50% surface increase. In 2018 it was 3926 ha. I would also ask the Minister for information: Foreigners from which countries showed the greatest interest in acquiring property in order to invest in our country? As far as agricultural and forestry land is concerned, the largest area of the land concerned the Zachodniopomorskie voivodship - 949 ha, Pomorskie - 747 ha and Opolskie - 651 ha. It follows from the analysis of the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration for 2019 that 19 decisions were issued refusing to authorise the acquisition of real estate, premises, shares and shares in commercial companies. Minister, what were the reasons for these refusals? Foreigners from which countries do they apply? It's about individuals and legal persons. The information provided by the Minister of the Interior also shows that 84 illegal transactions were carried out in 2019. We would like to find out what violations of the law were involved and how they were brought to a lawful level. I would also like to ask how the Minister evaluates cooperation with the notarial council, how it progresses, whether it is satisfactory for the Ministry, whether there is still room for improvement of this cooperation. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Following an examination of the report presented to the High House by the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners (the bell) in 2019 the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u358	Thank you. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the parliamentary club of the Left, I have the honour to present our position on the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2019 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, and therefore the Act with 100-year history. This print No 292 was examined during the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on 30 September this year. The report itself on almost 100 pages of the manuscript contains information on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners in 2019. It also applies to previous years. With regard to the information contained in the report, it is worth paying attention to a few things. The Regional Administrative Court issued a judgment repealing the decision of the Minister of 2019 to refuse to authorise the holding or shares in a real estate company. In 2019 the Minister responsible for Home Affairs issued a total of 19 decisions refusing foreign nationals to grant permission to acquire property, premises and shares and shares. Among the foreigners authorised to acquire real estate, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Russian, Chinese and Indian citizenship was most often represented. Foreigners most often applied to the Minister for permission to acquire residential premises located in the border area and commercial premises, taking into account the number of permits, were Ukrainian citizens - 105 premises, Belarus - 27 and Russia - 10 premises. This represents 83% all premises for which the acquisition has been granted permission to foreigners. The number of acts sent to the Minister responsible for Home Affairs who failed to comply with the statutory deadline by the notaries is probably worrying, because in 2019 there were as many as 158 of them, as my previous speaker said. In 2019 there were also unfortunately 84 transactions entered into in breach of the Law. High Izbo! As part of the committee's work, during the responses given by representatives of the Ministry of Administration and Home Affairs, it was confirmed that the Ministry had not so far examined the effectiveness of citizenship in the process of acquiring real estate. The purpose of the transaction and subsequent destination of the purchased property are not analysed either. The whole report is comprehensive - it contains legal bases and clarifications on the regulation in force, which has probably facilitated the presentation of this report for 2019. In subsequent reports on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners, applications and analyses could be more detailed. It is also necessary to increase supervision of the implementation of this Act. Minister! I would like to thank you on behalf of the administration committee for the additional material sent to us. It shows that in the last 10 years, i.e. from 2010 to 2019, more than 38,5 thousand were sold to foreigners. ha. This is a huge area and I think that detailed supervision, as well as control in this area, should be more in-depth. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Left Club will vote in favour of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u360	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland - PSL, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u361	Good evening, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Dear Minister, Fellow Members! I have the honour to present my position on behalf of the Polish Coalition - PSL - Union of European Democrats and Conservatives' report on the implementation of the Act of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners contained in Sejm print No 292 and the position of the committee in print No 639. High Izbo! The regulation of real estate trading in Poland with the participation of foreigners consists of the obligation of the foreigner to obtain an appropriate permit, which is the basis for the acquisition of real estate under the rules of Polish citizens. It is therefore crucial to determine who is a foreigner within the meaning of the Act. The definition is very broad because it grants the status of a foreigner first to a natural person without Polish citizenship, to a legal person established abroad, without legal personality to a company of persons mentioned above, established abroad, created in accordance with the laws of foreign countries. Another case is legal persons and commercial companies not having legal personality, established in the territory of the Republic of Poland, controlled directly or indirectly by the persons or companies mentioned above. After an examination of the document presented, it turned out that in 2019 the Ministry, MSWiA, 767 requests for permission to acquire real estate and shares in companies owned or used by perpetual properties located in Poland, as well as for the issue of promises, so-called. Promenades. There was a 19-percent increase in the number of applications as compared to 2018. In 2019 the Minister issued 439 permits for the purchase of 663 land property with an area of 53 ha. 434 were natural persons, two legal persons, three diplomatic representations. Of which 108 permits concerned agricultural and forestry property with an area of 35 ha - natural persons. In 2019 140 permits were issued for the acquisition of residential premises in the border area and commercial premises. 20 permits were issued for the acquisition of shares and shares in companies owned or owned by perpetual real estate with an area of 136 ha. 19 negative decisions were issued in 2019. The reason for refusal was the lack of justification for a lasting relationship with Poland. The report shows that, firstly, land of 5238 ha was purchased on the basis of 8690 transactions, 1279 of which concerned forests of 1349 ha. This follows from the report presented, p. 46. Second, on the basis of 10 971 transactions, apartments with an area of 962 731,33 m were purchased Ladies and gentlemen! Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland now, and in the previous Polish People's Party itself, in 1997 led to the creation of an article. 23 the constitution, which said what is the essence of the agricultural system, and pointed to the household. It should also be recalled that, in principle, 100 years have passed since the Act of 24 March 1920 was passed. This law has been amended several times and was also the reason for what in practice caused controversy and interpretation problems. I also took the liberty of analyzing earlier reports. These reports showed that in 2018 799 ha were sold, in 2017 - 1069 ha, in 2016 - 576, in 2015 - 412 ha. In view of the above and in view of the upward trend in land sales, the Coalition Poland - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives will look closely at their sales policy, but will also ask for increased supervision of these activities. On the other hand, today, taking into account all the reasons that I mentioned, on the basis of the article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm [[♪ The bell ♪]] Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives proposes to reject the report of the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration from the implementation in 2019 of the Law of 24 March 1920 on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners together with the position of the committee which I submit to the hands of the marshal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u362	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Report from the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration on the implementation in 2019 of the Law on the acquisition of real estate by foreigners. Let's start historically. This law is indeed old, it is over 100 years old, it was passed in 1920, it is from a time of newly regained independence. Let us remember, the revolution in the east has already collected its first bloody harvest, the Bolshevik plague goes west, Poland then thanks to its own valour and thanks to God did not get trampled on by the eastern shoe. Under these circumstances, this law is being made. I also stress this because of the recent 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw. Interestingly, it was created before the law in force after the partitions was harmonised in a number of other very important areas. It is an expression of an important thought, such that the independent Polish nation should rule completely within and over its territory. I would also like to remind you of the opportunity expressed by the national MEP from this place in 2002 from the Parliamentary Speaker. Looking for a national economic interest in earth trading, he reminded me of the difference between lease and sale. In this context, he referred to an example sold by the Russians to Alaska and leased to the British by the Hong Kong Chinese, who returned to them after 100 years. These thesis fell in the context of the land, which, as you know, is not coming. The stock is stable, the state should guard this resource. Considering, among other things, The EU rules on the free movement of capital of people, the possibility of settling, also the influx of immigrants from the East and Asia, rightly the Polish state monitors annually the transactions that take place in the real estate area. This should continue and prevent mass migration, especially from the East, from Asia, Africa, by really verifying who is settling in Poland, acquires real estate. These actions are necessary in order to enable the Polish community to live and develop safely, as well as to end the drain of Polish capital, human capital to the West, so that the Polish state is the most attractive offer for young Poles to live and develop. Given the relatively low level of refusals indicated in the report, there is a question: Are the associations of buyers with Poland sufficiently well checked? With this issue there is also the question of buying land by so-called. poles, as well as by companies whose ownership structure is so complicated that at first glance it is impossible to distinguish who actually pulls the strings. And here is the fundamental question: Are the Polish services responsible for this problem identified and properly monitored? This particularly applies to areas of strategic importance: military facilities, airports, power stations, transmission networks, drinking water shots or geographical areas of importance, such as border areas or Vistula Mierija. The question to the Minister: Is this check meticulously carried out? Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u364	Thank you. Now Mr Sosnierz, also near the Confederation, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u365	It's an example of something we absolutely don't need. We don't need this bill, we don't need these reports, we don't need this talk about anything that's completely nothing for anybody. The State in the Ministry is doing a lot of hard work and no one needs to verify what someone buys from who. If the owner wants to sell something to someone and takes it seriously, property, it's between him and the seller. There's no reason for it to be checked by the minister himself, especially at such a high level as to see if anyone can sell the land to anyone. If the plot is mine, it's mine, which means the minister has no right to decide, and if he has the right, i.e. It's not really mine anymore, because it's like he's a little bit more of a minister. Therefore, I see no reason for us to lean on such an irrelevant issue that we control our own citizens in what they want to sell, so that we spend our money on completely unnecessary jobs for those who are on these documents, and that we simply interfere with the marketing of their own people's parcels. This only results in a decrease in the attractiveness of these parcels and a decrease in their price. Once again we put a stick in the spokes of our own economy, and then we're surprised that it's all limping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u366	Mr Bartosz Grodecki will now speak to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. Oh, and more questions. Excuse me, Minister, just a moment, because it turns out we have 11 more questions. So I'm closing my list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr Szczerba, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. There's no envoy. Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. There's no envoy. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u367	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have only one question, because as this report shows, this enemy of the PiS in the form of possible loss of the area was absolutely imaginary. And the fear of cocks, and the scary thing that PiS used in the public debate, it turned out to be extremely shallow. Is the government planning, therefore, to free up the land trade so that Poles can easily sell without restrictions on the one hand and, on the other hand, acquire land and even build their property, increase development and lead a normal, unfettered life? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u368	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On August 3, 2019, at a meeting in the village of Dygowo, the leader of Law and Justice Jarosław Kaczyński said the following words in the context of the Land Protection Act: we secured Polish land, Polish land must be for Polish farmers. I have a request: Could the Minister hand over official MSWiA data to his leader, which says that in 2015, i.e. when POs and PSL gave power, the foreigners were sold 412 ha of land, while in the following years, when you ruled, the land was sold more and more to foreigners? In 2017 more than 1 thousand were sold. ha, and last year - 1349 ha. Don't these figures make it clear that the beneficiaries of the PIS agricultural policy are German farmers, not Polish farmers? And it must also be made clear that PiS did not create any law on the protection of Polish land, PiS 3 times allowed it to be sold to foreigners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u370	Member of Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u371	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question: Does the Government of the United Right, the Government of Law and Justice have a plan in terms of the amount of land that will be in the hands of foreigners in the coming years? My colleague Dariusz Klimczak reminded me of the announcements. It had zero surface area, Polish land went to foreigners, while data contradicts it completely. So today it is worth asking yourself: What is the plan for the future, Minister? Today we are watched by farmers who very well remember these words and the president of Kaczyński, and other leading, prominent politicians of PiS, that the land will cease to be in the hands of foreigners. As with EU subsidies, with many other things, you have deceived Polish farmers. I'd ask you to explain it today and tell me how it's gonna be in the future. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u372	Thank you. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In 2019 foreigners outside the European economic area received a total of 436 permits to acquire 658 land with a total size of 53 ha. Mostly in the war. Lublin, which I have the pleasure and the honor of representing, because it was as much as 14 ha. In the case of agricultural and forestry land, this is 108 permits, for the Lublin Voivodeship it is 13.58 ha. My question is: What does real estate trading look like in the context of nationality in the Lublin Voivodeship in terms of both real estate and agricultural property, shares in companies, shares and premises? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u374	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u375	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The fact that this land is being sold to foreigners under the rule of law, we already know, the statistics are talking about it. On the other hand, I would like to ask you a question, Minister, because I come from Western Pomerania, where protests were very often held. In Western Pomerania it is very often heard that there is a Dane, there is a German, there is a Dutchman. Minister, they are owners or co-owners through companies. Does the Ministry have any information on how much today's land in Western Pomerania is involved in foreign capital, and how do you intend to give this land to Polish farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u376	Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u377	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! I have two questions. First question. 30 April 2021 ends with a period of five years as regards the prohibition on the sale of agricultural land to entities other than farmers. The question is, what's next? Will these restrictions continue to be maintained? Or will other solutions be prepared so that Polish citizens, including those who are not farmers, can purchase agricultural land. And second question. How many companies of commercial law with a majority and minority share of foreign capital acquired agricultural and forestry land in 2019, what are the areas and from which countries do they come? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u378	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The law that we are working on today gives us a chance to talk about cooperation, coordination of foreign services. Both in the Committee on Special Services and in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, there is rarely an opportunity to raise this issue, so I would like to ask for a written reply, as we will probably not find out here today what the cooperation of the European Union states in the area of care for foreigners and coordination of these activities, as well as cooperation with other countries in this area, for example with the Russian Federation, looks like. These elements are important from the perspective of the security of the Polish state. The answer to this question can also open our eyes to what it really looks like today's attempt to cross the border illegally. I would ask the Minister for a fair and true answer so that a real debate can be held in the future in 2021. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u380	Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This year it has been 100 years since the law was passed, from which we have just heard the report. Many times the revised has survived the entire age despite important political changes, and in practice today it causes controversy and interpretation problems even with experienced lawyers. The current interpretation of the provisions of the Act makes the restrictions on the purchase of real estate in a professional way irrelevant, and the practical importance of this law is small, since it deals more with the trading of shares and shares than with the regulation of real estate, which means that the title itself is misleading. And a foreigner from outside the European economic area, wanting to acquire property in Poland, simply starts a company, and then the acquisition of real estate by this company does not require permission. The question therefore arises as to whether this law continues to meet its original objective and whether it should not be repealed, replacing it with a new regulation which would regulate the matter in a way that does not arouse interpretation disputes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u382	Thank you. Mr Stefan Krajewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u383	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 13 November 2016, the President of Law and Justice said: Polish land not for speculators, Polish land not for aliens, Polish land for Polish farmers. Today we see how much land has been sold. Maybe it wouldn't be so shocking if it weren't for the fact that farmers in Poland actually have a problem. The land that they lease for many years and which they care about as their own is held back by the movement of this land, because they are not the right tenants, new ones must come, necessarily connected to the PiS environment. Unfortunately, that's the reality. And you didn't make sure that foreigners didn't buy this land, because the most important thing for you is the money you're getting from it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] When's that gonna change? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u384	Thank you. Now I'll have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration of Mr Bartosz Grodecki. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u385	Dear Marshal, Dear ladies and gentlemen, To be honest, I don't really understand these voices of outrage from the Polish People's Party, because I would like to remind you of one thing. The increase in the sale of agricultural land to nationals of countries originating in the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation results from the fact that in 2016 transition periods were simply no longer in force and those transitional periods were negotiated for 12 years in 2004. Who negotiated these periods? I think you're the ones who formed the government at the time. So I think the question isn't really addressed to us, but I think you should answer it for yourselves. The second thing is that some, or actually an excellent part of these questions, concerns a law on the marketing of agricultural land, which we are not a depositary. It is the Ministry of Agriculture, not the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I read my statement concerning this report - the report concerns the keeping of sales records of these land, i.e. those activities which were introduced into Polish legal trade, were registered by notaries, by courts and were transferred to the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I don't really feel like referring to how the Agricultural Trading Act works, because we're not her depositary. Further questions that have been raised concern, for example, the trial, why some of our proceedings are being repealed by our decisions. This is due to many different cases. The Court of First Instance may always repeal such a decision and refer it to a review, and the refusals we issue in the proceedings are mainly due to the applicant's failure to comply with the statutory conditions, such as the failure to demonstrate where he has the funds to acquire the property in question. With regard to the very end, if it is possible, to what Mr Sosnierz has put forward, I understand that it is indeed so that there is a land owner who has the free opportunity to sell his land to whom he wants, if this does not apply to a person outside the EEA. That's the bill. As an office, we are obliged to comply with and continue this process resulting from the provisions of the Act. This is also kind of an answer in part to the requests made by the Polish People's Party. This means that if someone owns the land and wants to sell the land, it is right: as for the state, since the transition periods have already ended. He wants to sell it, he's gonna sell it. As far as specific questions are concerned - some of you have already declared this - we will, of course, answer them in writing. However, as I said during this speech, some of the questions should indeed be addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, which is appropriate as regards the agricultural land turnover law. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u386	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak? Mr. Paul? No. Correction, one sentence. Please, in corrigendum mode. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u387	I was just saying we don't need that bill. So that I understand that you, as Minister, cannot evade this obligation. But I told you that this is a completely unnecessary initiative and it's a waste of your precious time for you to lean down from the height of your stool over the little things that someone sells to someone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u388	The discussion is closed. In view of the objections raised to the vote... Yes. We will join the voting block against this proposal. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 15 December this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? You volunteered. Plus, no one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. As the first Mr Frederick Kapinos, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u389	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On 24 November 2020, loved ones, family, friends, acquaintances and mincing said goodbye to the deceased 4 days earlier. Captain. Jerzy Dębicki, a mielczanian, a Scout of Grey Privates, a solid soldier, captain of the Polish Army. Jerzy Dębicki was born on 27 December 1929 in Mielec. He was the son of Eugeniusz and Sophia of Socki. The period of his youth fell to the times of World War II and the Nazi occupation. At that time he attended the general school as well as the secret sets of prohibited subjects, and then to the first and second secondary classes. From August 1940 to January 1945, he was a Boy Scout of the Grey National Army on his team. Jeremy Wiśniowiecki, on the other hand, from January 1945 to November 1951 - on the secret independent scout team. Jeremy Wiśniowiecki, who also appeared under the name Freedom and Justice. In 1948. Jerzy Dębicki graduated from Junior High School and Junior High School. Stanisław Konarskiego in Mielec, and then in 1948-1951 studied at the Faculty of Communication of the Mining and Steel Academy in Krakow, the Department of Mechanical Vehicles and Tractors. In November 1951, he was arrested and sentenced to 12 years in prison for activities in secret independence organizations. It was released in 1956 during the so-called period. It'll thaw. A year later, he graduated from the Faculty of Mechanical Engineering at the Krakow University of Technology with the title of engineer. He then worked in WSK and OBR SK Mielec in construction and research services from June 1957 to December 1982. as (The Bell) the head of the construction section of the Mikrus car body. The change of political situation in Poland after 1989 enabled Jerzy Dębicki to reactivate the family library, taken from his father Eugeniusz Dębicki by the communist authorities. He was promoted to the rank of captain of the Polish Army and was awarded among others. Cross with Swords of the Order of the Cross of Independence and Officer Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland. He was the President of the Circle of the World Association of National Army Soldiers in Mielec. Captain. Jerzy Dębicki was very involved in patriotic activities. He willingly attended meetings with young people, for whom he was an example and a role model. He often said, especially to young people: Don't ask what... Thank you, sir. I counted your time because... ... Poland can do for you... ...at first there was a misunderstanding, but you've already crossed three minutes. Ask what you can do for Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u390	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland. 3 minutes, sir, this is unfortunately a time limit. And it was four minutes. No, because at first there was a wrong time limit. That's what he said. Very well, so what. I'll have four, too. No, they're all three.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u391	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On December 12, 1860, 160 years ago, in Szymborz near Inowroclaw a great poet, playwright, literary critic, translator, also the rector of Jan Kazimierz University in Lviv - Jan Kasprowicz was born. As a reminder, he died on August 1, 1926 in Zakopane. He was an outstanding representative of Young Poland, connected with naturalism, symbolism and expressionism. Considered one of the most outstanding poets in the history of Polish literature, placed equally with Adam Mickiewicz. An important place in his poetry was the admiration of the nature of the native Kujaws, especially the Inowroclaws, and the Tatras, where he spent the end of his life. Jan Kasprowicz's house in Szymborz or, in fact, a building rebuilt on the site of the former hut in which Jan Kasprowicz was born, it is a museum. Unfortunately, this museum is now forgotten, underfunded. My speech is an appeal to remind you of this great poet, this great artist, also the Ministry of Culture and society, so that together in this House in the future we may also consider how to honor, but also to finance this place, to remind you that Jan Kasprowicz was primarily associated with Kujawy because of his birth, he was actually a citizen of the world, because he studied in Leipzig, knew perfectly well German, also Eastern languages, and was also very closely associated with Lviv. It is not only the Harenda in Zakopane, where its museum is, but it is also the museum in Szymborz, the family Szymborz near Inowroclaw. And my call for the Ministry of Culture to consider in the future to finance the renovation, but also to make this place more public and to contribute financially to the district of Inowroclaw, which runs the cultural unit and manages the place in order to commemorate the birthplace of this great artist. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u392	Thank you. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u393	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! By the way, I can't afford to reflect on the fact that for a point: statements, we meet at a rather unusual time, even unnatural, because these are usually late night hours. But I'm going through ad rem. Today, the House adopted a resolution on the anniversary of December 70. As a Gdansk man, I would like to thank her very much. The draft resolution was submitted to the Bureau of the Sejm, and the draft submitted by the Civic Coalition club was used as a canvas. The presidential draft resolution was born - which is as natural as possible in democracy - by consensus. For this reason, it does not contain a certain passage concerning the present, as well as the future, a certain kind of message. Therefore, I would like to allow myself to quote it: Referring to the experience of December 70, the Parliament of the Republic points out that not force and violence, but dialogue and compromise should serve to resolve conflicts between society and power. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u394	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! My message concerns the safety of residents and the construction of a sidewalk along the national road no. 30 towards Zgorzelec in Chmielen. Chmielenie is a few kilometers long town, through which there is a relatively narrow national road no. 30 towards Zgorzelec. Car traffic is growing rapidly on this road, including heavy transport towards Germany. The safety of the inhabitants is at stake and a quick construction of the pavement is required, and ultimately the bypass. A few years ago, the pavement was started, but it was not completed. It's gonna take about 700,000. zł at the end of it. Unfortunately, nothing's happened in years. That is not enough - in response to my interpellation, the Minister of Infrastructure is unable to determine an approximate construction deadline. The residents are asking for a sidewalk, making appeals and requests, and recently protesting on the street. Doesn't our country, which we hear from the government, have public finances in excellent condition, afford 300,000. zł per year for 2 years to build people a sidewalk to make them feel safe on their way to school, shop, health clinic or stop? Do they have to be victims of death to satisfy the urgent need of the inhabitants? Isn't that a basic need? Or is it a very excessive dream of the inhabitants to measure XXII century? How can we ignore the people and ignore their safety? As a member of this land, I am writing further questions and interviews to the Minister of Infrastructure. The same answer for several years: that priorities, highways, express roads, bypasses, that the order of execution of notified investment tasks is determined according to the criteria: number of killed, number of injured, average daily traffic on a given section of the road. Do they have to be killed to build a sidewalk for several hundred thousand zlotys? It is further stated in the reply that at present it is not possible to specify precisely the date of completion of the pavement construction. Reading this, I feel like it's a multimillion-dollar investment, not a $700,000 sidewalk. zł. I appeal to the government to decide on the construction of the pavement along the national road in Chmielenie, because it is the responsibility of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u396	Mr Tomasz Kostus, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u397	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We're outraged. Yes, I speak in plural - on behalf of self-government, and especially on behalf of the people of Opole. We are outraged at how Law and Justice have separated millions from the local investment fund, both at national level and in particular at local level. We've seen how much promises mean to you. They don't mean anything. You promised to help local governments in a difficult time of pandemic, but this aid only goes to selected local authorities, probably not by accident only to those who support the PiS. That's exactly what it looks like in Opole, which I represent. How is it possible that even though there were almost PLN 100 million available in the regional envelope, the voivodship city, which is Opole, received round 0 PLN? The money from the fund is yours, but you take taxes from everyone. Shame, both politically and in human terms. We have been completely ignored despite the submission of socially important proposals concerning kindergarten, gym or social assistance home, which is essential for the normal functioning of senior policy. So many round words that you care about the youngest and the seniors improve their lives. These are empty clichés and unfulfilled promises. That's what your words are worth in practice. Counted in zlotys are worth zero, zero zlotys. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As the governing United Right, she assured that the practice of dividing Poland into Poland A and Poland B, for a better and worse, for a richer and poorer one, was already a melody of the past. What did you do? You divide the country even more, only now the dividing line runs differently. There is your Poland and Poland not yours, the Polish PiS which nods you, and all the rest that has the courage to think and speak differently. Where's the law, where's the justice? There is neither law nor justice. Yeah, we're outraged. I remind you that I speak for the people of Opole. We're outraged because you gave millions out of the fund, and there's no appeal procedure, there's no score, and the fund is, of course, classified. You announced transparency, transparency. There isn't one or the other. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What the Government of the United Right has done is also reprehensible because you are also hurting your constituents. You think the Opole seniors didn't vote in the last Andrzej Duda election? You think they didn't vote for law and justice in parliamentary elections before? You're skipping out on an important part of your constituents. Many have voted for you, but after what you've done, they won't say it again. Be sure people don't forget. You'll get paid in the next election. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u398	Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszak, I'm sorry, Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! On 19 October 2020, at the age of 104 years, the colonel of Chełm soldiers of the Home Army, teacher, Major Władysław Pristupa, died. Fawn. He was born on 11 September 1916 in Penza, Russia. In 1920 he and his parents returned to Poland. During the Soviet invasion in 1939 he fought as a team of 7. The Legion Infantry regiment. In October 1942, after his oath, he became a soldier of the Home Army in the Chełm region of the Home Army. From now on, he used the nickname Deer. In May 1944 he was promoted to lieutenant and since August 1944 he was a soldier of the Polish Army. After the war he graduated from the Pedagogical Faculty of the State Higher School of Music in Sopot. He worked with the kids, created a school orchestra. He ran a 120-person choir in Zielona Góra. Honored with the Officer's Cross of the Order of Rebirth of Poland, the Cross of the National Army, twice the Medal of the Army and many other medals, including the award of the Child Friend for working with children and young people. He was an active member of the War Invalids Association for the rest of his life. May he rest in eternal peace. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, I still wanted to make a second statement using my free time. During the 21st meeting of the Polish Parliament on 27 November at the time of the vote No 170 - that was the 31st item on the agenda - on the establishment of 2021 Stanisław Lem's Year my vote against was unintentional. It was due to a remote vote and problems on the links. I was and am in favour of establishing the year 2021 the Year of Stanisław Lem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u400	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This morning I got a call from a crying woman from Iława who found out that she might be pregnant and that she was having a dead fetus. It's a great tragedy for her and her loved ones. Why did she call me? Because this frightening, difficult situation has a second political bottom that makes this woman living a double hell. She wanted a gynecologist's advice, but he refused to take her to the ward. He admitted that since October 22, he and his hospital have been avoiding the subject with a wide bow, that for their own safety they are hiding a clause of conscience, but can accept it privately. It's in Iława. A similar situation took place at a city hospital in Olsztyn. So-called. a judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal on abortion which repeals the possibility of abortion due to severe and incurable defects of the foetus was issued on 22 October 2020. The decisions of the Constitutional Tribunal should be published in the Official Journal of the Laws immediately, but the government has not done so until today. Many people say that the Constitutional Tribunal's ruling is not legal. Probably so, but the law firm of the Prime Minister, without publishing a ruling, does not try to alleviate the chaos and frustration of millions of Poles and Poles, hides his head in the sand and waits for developments. The Prime Minister openly admits that he does not publish the ruling because he is waiting for the Sejm to clean up this mess and adopt a new abortion bill, preferably proposed by the President. When I am looking for this woman a place where she can quietly report and fully benefit from medical care, on the Internet I see: The Bielanski Hospital stops abortion, the Polna abortion treatments stopped, the Elbląg abortion is still legal. The following titles: Legal doubts, suspension abortion. The next title: In the hospital in Iława, all doctors declared a conscience clause. The judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal is not in force, the effects are already in force. Dear Mrs. Przyłębska! Mr. Morawiecki! Mr. Kaczyński! Call that woman who's begging me for help today and tell her you're taking care of your problems so she can wait until you get along. It is strange that you haven't touched on this issue over coffee, because so much of your Polish drama is moving, that it is probably worth a little thread during Mr Kaczyński's chat and his social discovery of recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u402	Mrs Claudia Jachira.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u403	Mr Kaczyński, President of the Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Because I couldn't ask you a question about the road safety report, I'm gonna do it now. Approximately 500 murders occur annually in Poland. It's horrible, isn't it? No, the real threat is the driver. Every year, 3,000 people die at their hands. people and 35,000. He's hurt. It's all death, disability, and misfortune, most of which could be avoided. Minister Ziobro! There's room for the program: zero tolerance. Be ruthless, not for the helpless, but for those who exceed speed, they're ahead of double continuous, because they're potential killers. When are we going to end up breaking traffic rules, treating complexes by buying expensive and fast cars, with the biggest rudeness on Europe's roads? Photoradars in each municipality, the amount of mandates associated with earnings and the end of the court's indulgence for road pirates. These are my demands.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u404	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 75 years have passed since the end of World War II. Unfortunately, until today there has been no thorough inventory and research of the Polish sea floor. According to estimates of the Supreme Chamber of Control at the bottom of the Baltic Sea in the Polish zone of responsibility, there are about 400 wrecks, while in the Gulf of Gdańsk alone there are about 100 of them. Today we could hear how the government Poland takes care of and protects the sea shores. It is high time to start taking care of the bottom of our sea, but the Baltic is one of the smallest and most vulnerable to ecological changes in the waters in the world. For this reason, together with the local government of the Gdansk-Gdynia-Sopot Metropolitan Area, I call on Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki to take action in order to implement the programme as soon as possible, which will make a detailed inventory of the drowning of chemical weapons and combat poisonous agents, such as iperite or sarin. I also call for the development of a way to extract and neutralize chemical weapons. Finally, a multi-purpose ship capable of extracting chemical weapons and petroleum products and combating marine pollution must be built and equipped. It is worth noting that the design of such a ship and the securing of the financing of the construction of this unit from European funds is, only for unknown reasons, not implemented. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u406	Thank you. Mrs Monika Wielichowska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the development of villages and cities, powiats depends on the headquarters in Warsaw and whether the governor, mayor or starosta supports the PiS or does not support whether he signs the Duda 2020 agreement or does not sign it. That's how self-government is killed, self-government, that's how local communities are killed, that's how other unnecessary divisions are created. The Prime Minister, informing about the fund of local initiatives, announced that Poland would not be divided into A, B and C. He also said: We use additional funds for small homelands - 12 billion PLN. The money from the Government Local Investment Fund will drive the development of municipalities and powiats, improving the quality of life of Poles. We are thinking about sustainability and fair development. But the empty words ended because he divided Poland into a better and worse sort. Let's see what he looks like according to the so-called power. Fair and balanced distribution of the Government Local Investment Fund in the Wałbrzych district. Not a single buck hit. to many cities, municipalities, powiats: Kłodzkiego, Łębkowicki, Ząbkowicki, Świdnicki or Wałbrzych. The town of Kłodzko got zero, the town of Nowa Ruda - zero, Lądek-Zdrój - zero, Kudowa-Zdrój - zero, Lewin Kłodzki - zero, Szczytna - zero, Polanica-Zdrój - zero, Śląskie - zero, Świdnica district - zero, Świdnica commune - zero, Dobromierz - zero, Żarów - zero, Żarów - zero, Dzierżoniów town - zero, Bielawa - zero, Pieszyce - zero, Ząbkowice Śląskie - zero, Stoszowice - zero. These are cities, municipalities and districts where residents work hard and pay taxes. Nevertheless, power ruled them out, yet power ignored them. The Fund for Local Initiatives has public resources that should be spent fairly and transparently. In the case of this fund, we have a political hand, a distribution of billions of zlotys without the application of rules and criteria and without the possibility of appeal. She won the discretion and the party key, lost justice and honesty, lost the decency. We're not leaving this outrageous case. We will demand from the Prime Minister information on the criteria, the principles on the basis of which local government units are granted or allocated funds from that fund. We want to know the minutes of the evaluation of the proposals submitted by the local government units drawn up within the framework of the Commission for the Support of Local Government Units. We want to know the list of members of the committee which the President of the Council of Ministers appointed to support local government units. We also reported to the Supreme Audit Chamber on the distribution of the fund, because the distribution of the fund is absolutely outrageous. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u408	Mr Wojciech Król, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u409	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to inform the High Sejm of the suspicion of corruption, political corruption, because the way in which the government distributed public funds under the local investment fund forces such reflection. The preliminary analysis shows that as much as 70% Local governments that have received funding are local governments that are related to Law and Justice. Poland is becoming more and more like the Polish People's Republic. There's a man in charge of us, and the rest is a fake. Whoever isn't with us is against us. These benches are empty, too. The Seym is mute. But it's not the worst part that these benches are empty, the saddest part is that it doesn't matter whether these benches are empty or full. I have to ask if it's true that there are cases of dealing with public money. Money for self-government in exchange for a position for a political nominate from Law and Justice, and really for a Trojan horse with a logo of Law and Justice, because in this way you want to take over local governments - money for positions. If this information confirms that the government is buying public money, it will be another proof that there are no limits to this power. It would be corruption, it would be blackmail, it would be a crime, and it would actually be a moral fall of the state. Another example: an envelope with the name of the forest daughter. I am from Silesia and we in Silesia remember how PiS dirty the puddle, how he took power in Silesian voivodeship. You didn't win the elections in the Sejm of the Silesian Voivodeship because you couldn't run the local government, so you bought your own power. You bought power with public money, bought power with money from residents and residents of the Silesian Voivodeship. That's how you take over for money. You're going to buy, you're going to buy Poland like a market, but it's gonna end someday, because every power comes to an end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u410	Member of Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u411	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to say a few words about the situation of the Polish village, a village which until recently boasted a surplus in exports of several billion zlotys, a Polish village which is experiencing a crisis today. Ladies and gentlemen, last Friday there was a debate in the Senate on the state of agriculture, the progress of spending. There was the current local government side, there was the current social side. Do you know who's missing? There was no government, no government, no agricultural ministry that wasn't interested in the agricultural situation. Minister! Do you know how much the slaughterhouses buy Polish chickens for today? I'll tell you what: 1.60, 1.80 PLN. Do you know how cost-effective it is? PLN 3.40. And do you know, Minister, that in the celestial zones where there is a restriction on ASF, pigs are bought at PLN 2.40 and profitability is in the order of PLN 5? Minister, it is time to respond to what is happening in Polish agriculture so that there is no tragedy. You promised, Minister Ardanowski, that there would be a National Food Holding. He's not here. If we had a holding company, maybe this wouldn't happen. If we had minimum prices, maybe it wouldn't have happened. You promised a good hunting law. What's left of it today, ladies and gentlemen? Putting farmers on hunting wheels, and the State Treasury, which owns the game, washes its hands. After the new year, we'll have massive removals of hunting wheels, because there are no foreign exchange hunts, no money. They'll just raise their hands. I therefore call very strongly on the Minister, the Prime Minister, to finally take care of the agricultural situation, because agriculture will not manage itself. Agriculture can't do it on its own. It's the same with COVID, with everything that's going on, like other industries, but you can't be deaf about it. Minister, Prime Minister, you must not be deaf because there will be tragedies in the Polish countryside. People have invested millions, built their farms for years, and today they have no choice. That is why I am calling for this to be handled very intensively. Finally, Poland - once one of the leaders in terms of spending European Union funds. In the case of RDPs today we are, ladies and gentlemen, on the 27th place. Which one? Last one. Because the perspective ends, we spent 55%. And we've contracted 74%. It's sad that you can't spend what we've taken care of. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I'm worried about what's gonna happen in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-12-15-sejm-23-1.u412	Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. There's no envoy. That concludes our parliamentary statements. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 16 December 2020 at the latest 9. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 19 min 29]]
