ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u1	God bless you all! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of the relevant article of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I ask for a break to be decided in order to convene the Seniors' Convention to discuss the possibility of taking a photo of the agenda of today's legislation, which the Bureau wishes to devote particularly much space to the discussion. It's a law on fur animals, export of Polish beef. These are undoubtedly serious matters, but they are what you are trying to cover for a truly historic caliber. The law: impunity+, bankruptcy+, that is, patching the budget hole, for all this cheapen the time. And above all, the law: colonization alias occupation+, i.e. bringing the Teutonic Knights to Poland 2.0. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Take off that anti-fur bill... Thank you, sir. ...we're not even gonna taunt it anymore, and give it time... Thank you, sir. ...to discuss Poland's independence. [[Applause]] Mr President, do you speak on your own behalf? On whose behalf are you acting right now? Your Marshal... I ask you, sir... ...in my own name... That's good, sir. Thank you very much. I've asked for a recess and a convocation of the Senior Convention. Mr President, you do not have the power to make such a proposal. There was a meeting of the Senior Convention and a meeting of the Sejm Bureau. That wasn't the conclusion. That's the right thing to say... But, Marshal, I've requested a recess... Mr President, I am speaking right now. ...counting that your marshal himself will make the right request... Don't count, sir, because you can count yourself. Mr President, you have no such authority, I will not call the Convention of Seniors... Your marshal, I request a recess so you can cool off and come to the right conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u2	Mr President, I guarantee you that I am really very calmed down. Ladies and gentlemen, the Member does not have the right to apply for the deletion of a point from the agenda on a case-by-case basis - first of all. Second of all, I'm not calling a break. I've requested a recess, Marshal. No, you requested a recess to call the Seniors Convention to remove the point from order. To get your marshal to ask for it. Mr Sr., the Senior Convention meeting was held, the Bureau meeting was held. I will not call the Senior Convention on this matter, and therefore there is no reason to announce a break in this matter. We'll proceed with the examination... Excuse me. Here's another conclusion. Sorry, I didn't notice. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, Club Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u3	Mrs. Marshal! I am direct to you with a formal request to amend the Marshal's regulation on the possibility of such an audience, not another number of Members. This number of Members is regulated. How many are there? There could be 17 of us from the Left Club. The club has 48 members. The residents of Poland, Poles and Poles, who watch our meetings, are surprised by the absence of Members, do not understand this situation. People work in workplaces, students go to schools, students sit in classes without masks, without keeping the distance required by the COVID. However, Members cannot enter the room - those who want to. It's not even 17. I appeal to your marshals to allow at least half of the members from each club to be kept at a distance. No. In fact, it should be possible for each Member and Member to attend the meeting (the bell). Thank you, Member. The second thing - it's also connected to it. It is unacceptable that the Members' Clubs cannot sit in this building, that the Members' Clubs must search for halls in the city for a meeting of the club. Because it's forbidden by your marshal. It's incomprehensible and outrageous, with all the sympathy for your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u4	Thank you very much, Member. Let me explain. This matter was raised at the Convention meeting and at the Bureau meeting. I don't think there was time for you, as club members, to find out about this, so I'll tell you. I have only called for the responsibility of your Members. I said that as many Members as he wants to be in the courtroom will be there. Madam: there will be so much. So I'll let you know right away. I am introducing remote deliberations, Madam, for one reason only: we have sick Members. Because they are not Members with flu, cold or angina who could come here, but this is an infectious disease - they cannot - so that is why I am announcing a remote sitting. However, I said this at the Bureau meeting, and I think that you, who are at Bureau and Convention meetings, will confirm this: all Members who want to come to the Chamber can do so. What about parliamentary clubs? Madam President, I will change that indeed. I'll change that. [[Applause]] No limit on questions. You have a beautiful case for glasses. Mr Nitras has an important question. From the kids... I know, I know. Very nice. I think I've explained. A formal proposal, Mr Nitras. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u5	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! I am forced to use this formula because we work in COVID mode. Yesterday there was one very important meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, at which many Members were prevented from voting, because yesterday the Sejm changed the voting system - yesterday - without informing Members of this earlier. Scandal! Don't lie to me. And we just couldn't vote. To be honest, I feel particularly affected by the fact that I could not express my opinion on the candidate, Mr Marek Kuchciński, at the time of the vote, so I ask the Marshal, the Sejm Bureau, to examine this matter. If you look at it, I have no doubt that you will bring the vote back because we have simply been prevented from voting remotely on any device. [[Applause]] It's a lie. And the second point, Your Marshal, is extremely important. We all have been living since yesterday - all of us - the fact that the administrative court has indicated that Prime Minister Morawiecki has violated the law. Get to the point. I am offended by the fact that the High Chamber, by the will of the Marshal (the Bell), does not deal with this matter at this sitting of the Sejm. Scandal! I demand the Prime Minister's presence, [[Applause]] who should be ahead of all of us... Thank you very much, sir. ...to report why he broke the law. And the High House, let me remind you, is called to settle the Prime Minister who is breaking the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u6	Thank you very much, sir. I am already informing you. As far as the first case is concerned, sir, it wasn't the Sejm yesterday... Yesterday. Your Marshal... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, But let me finish, sir. Firstly, the information about the need to update the system on your tablets was definitely earlier. Not yesterday, sir. Those Members who updated could vote peacefully. If someone didn't do it, they might have been in trouble. That's not true. Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's meeting has been held, and this matter is not my responsibility, i.e. Resummation of the vote... There it is. No, it's not the marshal's job, it's the chairman of the committee. Thank you very much, sir. Your Marshal, may I... No, sir. Thank you very much. I've already explained. But your marshal has inaccurate information. Well, then, sir, we'll talk outside. Mr... If you'll invite me after, I'd be happy to explain my doubts. There you go. Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm informing you... And the Prime Minister's question... Please, Mr... I would very much like to ask the Secretary to read the messages. Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u7	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Poselska etiquette - hour. 10.30, - Infrastructure - hour 10.30, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 10.30, - Health-- hour. 10.30, - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Infrastructure together with the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets - h.m. 13, - Health-- hour. 14, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 3.30 p.m., - Public Finance - hour. 4:00 p.m., - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 4:30 p.m., - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 5:30 p.m., - Social Policy and Family Policy - hour 6:15 p.m., - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 19, - Public Finances together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 19, - National Defense at 5 p.m. 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u8	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am declaring a two-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min. 38 hrs. 10 min 43]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19 (prints Nos 590 and 590-A). I ask the Secretary of State at Sebastian Skuza's Ministry of Finance to present the justification of the bill along with the self-correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u9	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The subject of today's proceedings is the government draft law amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19, together with the self-correction. The draft of the government submission is the government's response to the situation that occurred in relation to the spread of the pandemic, which has caused powerful economic perturbations and has had adverse socio-economic effects. In order to minimise the negative effects of the pandemic, the Council of Ministers adopted a proposal together with an auto-correction which is based on these three pillars: investment, which can be said to focus mainly on infrastructure, social and budgetary investments. These areas intersect each other. And so, first of all, I will present the assumptions of the project concerning the recapitalisation of PKP Polskie Linie Kolejowe SA, which is the manager of the national network of railway lines and is currently implementing the largest investment programme in the history of Polish railway industry worth about PLN 75 billion. It is proposed to recapitalisation this company with the amount of PLN 1850 million still this year. This appropriation could be used to increase the share capital of PKP PLK subsidiaries and to carry out tasks relating to reconstruction, construction, extension or modernisation of railway stops and accompanying infrastructure. Such an action would improve the ownership structure of the national railway infrastructure manager and would enable the creation of a strong capital group based on PKP PKL with increased implementing potential on the construction market. This would also increase the degree of readiness to implement the project in view of the planned envelope for railway investments from a new financial perspective. In addition, the strengthened group will have greater potential for implementing further government programmes, such as the rail + and/or the planned stop programme. Road infrastructure also needs support. The draft law contains provisions that allow the financing of the Self-Government Road Fund to be increased by a total amount of PLN 3.8 billion in 2020. This amount consists of two sums: 1,1 billion comes from shifting, accelerating funding planned for 2021, while such a clean increase is PLN 2.7 billion. The project also refers, as I have already mentioned, to issues relating to the state budget. The draft proposes to amend the deadline for the voivodship to apply for the mobilisation of special reserve funds. The anti-covid shield contains a solution that allows the use and allocation of resources from the special reserves by 31 December, but it is still necessary to introduce provisions that would allow the voivodships to submit applications in a longer period. The Government's submission also includes the episodes of 2020 in which an implementing act can be issued, a regulation of the Council of Ministers, which concerns so-called "the Council of Ministers'. non-extinguishable expenditure. And here, due to the pandemic, it is proposed that such use should be made as non-depreciable expenditure until 30 November 2021. The bill also includes solutions in the field of goods and services tax. Good implementation of the state budget for 2019, good information on the relationship: the Treasury debt to GDP would lead to a situation where the automatic return to 22 and 7 percent of VAT rates would be automatic. However, the announcement of rates took place in the pandemic year and the project envisages a return to these rates when the full expenditure rule and other existing indicators are applied. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The proposal also provides for the possibility to provide budgetary resources for certain special-purpose funds and to allow for the continuation of tasks in the framework of the implementation of the "Milch+" programme started in 2020 up to a maximum of 30 November 2021. The project also addresses the financing of the Railway Fund and the Road Fund through changes in the structure of excise duties and fuel charges. A reduction of 23 PLN of excise duty on fuel is proposed and an increase in the fuel levy is added at the same time. This would allow the redistribution of funds, the increase in funding for the National Road Fund and the Railway Fund. The solutions also assume the possibility of recapitalisation of the ports coming from bonds by PLN 1 billion. This would be the means to increase the share capital of ports, to build the so-called. external flaps. The law would also apply to air infrastructure. That's what the COVID card says... Minister, time. Time's up. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: ...rules allowing support to airports, their readiness to receive and operate air traffic. However, in view of the European Commission's negative assessment, these provisions had to be amended. The European Commission is only going for a certain period of time, from 15 March to 30 June in respect of partial airport losses. This would not have a budgetary impact. The amount for these activities is reserved in the COVID fund and amounts to PLN 142 million. High Izbo! I ask you kindly to accept this bill along with the self-correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u10	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Jerzy Małecki on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a statement on the government draft law amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19, contained in print No 590, together with the self-correction. As the projector points out, the aim of these legal solutions is to enable financing of important public tasks in an era of economic impact caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus. Changes are proposed, which will result in, among others, changes. the provision of additional budgetary resources to the Regional Roads Fund in 2020; the acceleration of the spending of budgetary resources for the implementation of investment tasks in land transport infrastructure; the permanent link between the level of VAT rates and the state of public finances; the extension of the deadline to the Minister of Finance by 5 November 2020 for the allocation of special provisions, which is the consequence of the transfer of the deadline for the allocation of special reserves until 31 December of that year; the issue of a Council of Ministers Regulation on non-extinguishable expenditure under which expenditure from 2020 can also be implemented in the following year until 30 November, which will allow the continuation of the implementation of projects which, as a result of the COVID-19, are not completed or until 31 December. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It should be agreed with the projector that the current economic situation entails the need for more State activity in the area of investment aimed at restoring the economic potential of the country. It also requires appropriate action to minimise the risks to the smooth implementation of individual projects. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law on amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19 and is in favour of it being directed towards further procession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u12	Thank you very much. Mr Zbigniew Kaminski... Konvinsky. ... Konwiński, I'm so sorry, the Civic Coalition Club. It's okay. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to focus on one point that is in this law, and you are passing by it a little bit, taking it lightly: it is to maintain increased VAT rates. You are arguing this country with a worse economic situation, with smaller influences on the state budget, but at a time when this economic situation was good and we heard that Poland got up from its knees and thanks to your governments we have a perfectly sealed VAT system, but there was no return to these lower VAT rates. Ladies and gentlemen! For the last five years, we've heard that it's enough not to steal, and for everyone, the economic slowdown is how the Civic Platform rules, and there's no crisis like the PiS rules. Because over the years, we've been saying that economic prosperity is a good time to prepare for the harder times. That a sound government is so efficient that in better times it prepares for harder times. You have not prepared for times more difficult and at the moment, with a worse economic situation, you want higher VAT rates to be maintained. If we look at the data that are coming to us, we will see that for the period of March-June nominal VAT receipts fell by more than 20%. This is by far more than the gross domestic product fell during this period. What does that mean? That VAT revenues are falling more than GDP. When we talked about pro-cyclicality during the work of the VAT investigation committee - this was done under the direction of Professor Bratkowski and Louis Kotecki - that when the economy slows down, VAT revenues slow down even more, when the economy grows, VAT revenues grow even more, you said that there is no reason in the economy that these are some kind of bureaucratic economists associated with the Civic Platform. Today, you're falling into procyclicality on your own. If we take GDP and VAT revenues, it can be seen that VAT revenues are significantly stronger than gross domestic product. If all the notices that were made in the VAT committee - Mr President is also taking part in this debate - take it seriously, it means that the state has actually left us ready for itself, in time when you will no longer be in charge and you will be able to submit such notices to you, that the VAT receipts are falling harder than they are falling, slowing down the Polish economy. This is your rhetoric. [[Applause]] over the last years, when you summarized the period of government of the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. We have undertaken a number of sealing activities during the Citizen Platform and PSL governance period: in 2011, 2013 and 2015. You have not supported most of these actions, but have used them to some extent at the beginning of your governments. Today, it is clear from these data that you have presented to the European Commission that, as regards the VAT gap, we are entering the years 2016 and 2017, and all points out that it will be even worse. So much has been left of all this sealing of the tax system in Poland under the leadership of the PiS government. For these reasons, because we are dealing with the maintenance of higher VAT rates here, we are requesting that the law be rejected at first reading. And I hope you'll share our view, because it's enough not to steal, it's enough for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u14	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska... No, no, there's still time. No, Mr Janusz Cichoń, the Coalition Club, will use the rest of his time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u15	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's all just to find the money to invest. Let me remind you that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki promised that in 2020 the share of investment in Polish GDP will be 25%. No, they couldn't. You couldn't make it. We're under 18%. From the leader we became an outsider. This is one of the lowest levels of investment in Europe, the lowest in 25 years in Poland. You are looking for funds for public investment, you are forgetting private investments, here we have absolutely drama, and without stimulating private investment we will not really get straightened out, the future of Poland lies right here. And now it is worth considering, in my opinion, and this is what we call for, instead of maintaining VAT, to even reduce it, to apply fiscal stimulus, to give a clear signal to private operators, to the private sector, that we are changing state policy in this area. This fiscal stimulus was applied by the Germans, for example. A reduction in VAT, not its increase - that would be a fiscal stimulus that would certainly prompt private investors to invest, and an increase in investment would certainly be much greater than the one you want to achieve with your steps in the form of [[♪ The bell ♪]] recapitalisation of public companies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u16	Thank you. Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Both projects have been implementing a number of Left's demands from our club since the beginning, since the socio-economic problems arising from the pandemic. We have reservations about this proposal, we also have questions and we are in favour of passing it on to the second reading in the committee. Due to the limited time, I will only draw attention to the most important issues. As regards the increase in the share capital of PLK subsidiaries, this is the implementation of the Left Club's demand for increased rail investments and the demand to strengthen domestic companies built on the rail services market, especially in the context of the EU perspective, a significant increase in finances for these investments. Similarly, 1 billion for construction, expansion, modernisation of railway stops and accompanying infrastructure is a response to the Left's proposals to counter communication exclusion, to promote environmentally friendly forms of transport, but also to meet the collapse of the domestic repair and construction industry, Poland. As far as the financing of land transport infrastructure is concerned, there is a similar situation here. This will stimulate investment processes to counter the effects of the pandemic, the issue expected by the Left and reported by us on several occasions. About the art. 4 the first law relating to the Children's Care Act up to 3 years, where it is possible to extend by 11 months the period of use of grants and funds from the Labour Fund within the framework of the "Maluch+" programme by self-government and non-public crèches, this is the issue that we have warned about from this tribune, Members and perhaps, above all, Members. This is a step in support of people running daycare, and we have repeatedly reported a problem. Increasing the Self-Government Road Fund by this 3.8 billion is a small step towards implementing the Left's proposals. The Left claims to compensate the local authorities for 50% income lost. This is a small step in this direction. We have tabled a bill on the implementation of this proposal in full. There are no reservations about the possibility of paying from the state budget to the Solidarity Fund, the Social Insurance Fund. However, we have questions about the support of the police, the State Fire Department and the Border Guard. We are not against spending on these services, but we have a question of how this applies to the COVID. On the other hand, the main reservation is the support of the Armed Forces Modernisation Fund in the fight against COVID, with a figure of 3 billion, as is apparent from the prepared budgetary changes. These 3 billion according to the Left Club should fund health workers' wages, additional teachers' work, complement self-government budgets, save jobs at risk or already lost as a result of COVID. We don't understand how the army goes to COVID. As regards the second project, the one with the letter A, where we mainly support the transfer of funds to cover in part the losses of airports and seaports resulting from the ban on air traffic. On 22 May, the Ministry of Infrastructure informed that Deputy Minister Marcin Horała had handed over a draft regulation to the Prime Minister, which just guaranteed support in this amount. We have submitted as a club - Mr Jan Szopiński and a number of Members, including myself - an interpellation on the dramatic situation of Ławica airport, which is currently in danger of bankruptcy, in the near future a release of up to 40% is planned. employees. Members of the Left also reported the dramatic situation of airports in Bydgoszcz, Olsztyn, Lublin, Szczecin, Rzeszów, Łódź and Zielona Góra. And the question is, why is it so late, since May 22nd? Why has the Prime Minister not yet signed this regulation announced on 22 May? Nor do we agree to increase the number of supervisory boards of railway, maritime, aviation companies by another representative of the government, which would be the representative of the Ministry of Finance. This is justified in substance in this project, but we believe that this is contrary to the announcements of savings, government spending on wages, in this case on the salaries of members of supervisory boards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u18	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, the club of the Polish People's Party, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u19	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 concerning the government draft law amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19, print No 590, and concerning the auto-correction of print No 590-A. As it has already sounded so far, my previous speakers stressed this, this law concerns many sectors, particularly investment, social and financial, and due to the current epidemic shows that in fact many sectors, not only economic but also social and investment in our country, have been affected. Since we have a lot of comments, we wanted to suggest that this law should be addressed to second reading in committees. With regard to the proposed changes, I would like to stress that we see that - as here also sounded - in the article. 33za and Article 33za. 33zb is strongly capitalised, amounting to 1850 million, PLK SA, PKP PLK SA. We also see that in the article. 2 of the draft law provides for amendments to the provisions of the Act of 11 March 2004 on tax on goods and services. We see that due to falling GDP, actually from 0.7% in 2019 up to 8,4% in 2020, there are a number of different doubts which indicate that the reduction of VAT to 22.7% or even more so is simply required, because it can create an impulse to save the economic sector and can actually restore investor confidence in our country, give the opportunity to boost investment, give a sense of stability, sustainability and security of planning the expenditure they implement. On the other hand, as far as the article is concerned. 3 of the draft law, it should also be pointed out that, in order to stimulate further dynamic development, it is appropriate to accelerate the spending of resources increasing expenditure from the state budget for the implementation of infrastructure investments in land transport, financing of these expenditure in 2021. As far as the "Maluch" programme is concerned, we have a number of social voices that really highlight and show that programmes related to the financing of kindergartens and daycare are really very strained and require investment and, above all, a different approach to the issue. Art. In turn, 5 of the Act contains information on the increase in funds for the Self-Government Road Fund in order to stimulate further investment or maintain the country's dynamic economic development. Here we see a huge amount of 2.7 billion and 1.1 billion, which totals PLN 3.8 billion. Indeed, this can help local authorities to make the investments that have been planned and which have been delayed over time due to the financing situation and the epidemic situation. As far as the article is concerned. 6 of the draft law, it contains an amendment to the article. 31n. That amendment refers to an extension of the time limit laid down in Article. Article 154 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act of 27 August 2009 on public finances and is the consequence of a delay in the allocation of special-purpose reserves whereby voivodships will be able to apply for the financing of tasks from reserves until 5 November so that this financing can actually continue to be implemented in an undistorted manner. As far as the article is concerned. 7 and the funding of the Police Support Fund, the Border Guard Support Fund and the State Fire Support Fund, in a pandemic age, we see that these services actually had a test and an exam that worked perfectly, but there is also considerable doubt that, in the context of these changes and the payment of investment expenses, modernisations, renovations and other maintenance of the activities of these units, it is not worth considering the health services, the funding of the actions, the funding and increase of the salaries of nurses, doctors, medical services and medical services around the medical department, because they are indeed on this first line of fire and indeed have real contact and feel real danger in the fight against the epidemic or with all the consequences of this epidemic that affects us. As far as the self-correction is concerned, it shows that the VAT rates which will be levied on each type of motor fuel are reduced in the same way and then increased on excise duty. This will actually bring real resources or give us an incentive to invest. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I wanted to, [[♪ The bell ♪]] we would like to take another look at this project, we wanted to ask the government, where there are spheres that need to be analysed and financed, to respect this issue and to provide additional resources. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u20	Thank you, Member. Mr Jakub Kulesz, next to the Confederation, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The next session of the Sejm and we have another installment of the anti-COVID shield. Let's see what the government has prepared for us. The whole power of the laws, which are such a peas with cabbage, because the state throws whatever comes to mind into these one laws: and things related to the crisis, and things unrelated to the crisis, and things that are easily smuggled into a huge confusion. Of course, there are tax issues. Because what could you possibly have come up with if you didn't raise taxes? Of course, you will explain that this is not a tax raise, it is the maintenance of taxes raised by the government of Donald Tusk. Indeed, this year we celebrate the 9th anniversary of raising the VAT rate to 23%. It was supposed to be raised for three years, and the state almost annually extends this three-year period. It's been nine years. Mr Konwiński has already made self-criticism by criticising you and explaining that this is not the way. The right way, even during the crisis, is to reduce taxes, not raise taxes. The fact that we're having a crisis and you're explaining that now we have to raise taxes... Look at 2015 when the economy was good and the Prime Minister promised to reduce VAT. You didn't lower those taxes back then either. You've raised more taxes. We also have a helicopter+ program, Minister Emilewicz. The difference is that the previous helicopter by public institutions, PFR, BGK, by issuing bonds and buying them, by adding money by the NBP was spreading money over the private sector, over the companies that needed it, and over those that didn't need it. About companies that are gonna fall anyway. It was a dead man's donation. You've been throwing that money away, leading to a situation where we have a 9% drop in GDP. Let me remind you that the NBP president said there would be a 2% increase. You've led to 4% inflation. It's unbelievable, it shows how much money has been printed. Now you have said that instead of over the private sector, you will be spreading money over the public sector, supporting public investment, that is, printing even more money and pumping it into even more inefficient areas of economic life, simply leading to the allocation of resources. Not where they're needed, but where they're wasted. This leads to an increase in prices and an even greater recession. You haven't learned anything from the great crisis in America. The great crisis is called a great crisis precisely because it was done in this way. I've heard on TV lately, and the state itself boasts that the Law and Justice are hitting on the young. It's about animals or TikTok. It happens that this is a direct hit on the wallets of young people - in subsequent announcements of anti-crisis shields we hear about full coverage of civil law contracts, increased taxation, and - attention - abolition of the abolition relief, so that those who went after bread, protecting themselves from your fiscalism abroad, also pay taxes to the Polish government. Don't you want these people back? This is banditism, what you're doing here. The animal and TikTok state of this economic disaster will not cover. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u22	There's still some time left. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u23	God's happiness to all entrepreneurs, employers, workers who try to make ends meet despite the devastation of Polish economic, social, cultural, political life, whose state, government, parliamentary majority you are making under the pretext of fighting a pandemic! Last Sunday in Podkarpacie - beautiful pages, my district - Marshal Witek, which was very healthy and very meaningful, paraded without any funny mask. Mr. Marshal, I think it's pretty obvious in Podkarpacie that you're playing fiction. The problem is that the hypocrisy of your behaviours in public places, changing depending on the mood of the moment and the wisdom of the stage, affects the economic and political decisions you make. So don't help any more, and stop hurting me. Stop destroying Polish life on the pretext of fighting a pandemic. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u24	12 ladies and gentlemen joined the questions. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to enroll on the question. The first question you ask is Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 11 September in the "One for one TVN" programme, Minister Horała here stated that Polish local airports could not be helped because the European Commission did not respond to Poland. In the meantime, the government passed a bill to the Sejm the day before, which we are investigating today. Therefore, I have the following questions. Is Minister Horala's statement a propaganda action aimed at justifying the government's attempt to bring down airports in Bydgoszcz, Olsztyn, Poznań, Szczecin, Lublin, Rzeszów, Łódź and Zielona Góra? It's hard to believe that Minister Horała acted on TVN on his own or that he didn't know what he was talking about. When did the government request permission from the European Commission to assist airports? Third question: When and to what extent did the European Commission authorise Poland to provide financial support to airports? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you kindly to grant... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u26	Thank you, sir, you have run out of time. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The draft law provides for an increase in the share of the state budget, among others. to the Self-Government Roads Fund, but also to the Rails+. The government programmes concerning the conversion of railway stops. I would like to ask you to answer in writing whether, in the context of these government programmes, the following projects have been successful: firstly, the extension of platforms at PKP Słupca station, secondly, the construction of the new Konin-Turk railway line, thirdly the construction of the ring road Koła. All these projects were announced by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki during meetings with voters and I hope they will be included in these government projects. So that I ask you to answer in writing. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u28	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask for Eastern Poland, Lubelskie voivodship, powiats and cities such as Chełm, Włodawa, Krasnystaw, Biała Podlaska, Zamość, but also others. I would like to ask for more money from the Fund for Roads of Local Government just for Eastern Poland. We know today that the infrastructure in this part of the country is quite low. But I would also like to request support for the airport in Lublin. We know that as a result of COVID it is an airport, but not only that, also other regional airports in Poland are beginning to lose liquidity. We are aware that local governments have lost a lot of income in recent years. The state budget should include financial resources that both guarantee the development of investments and will ensure that investments that were previously planned by local authorities will not expire. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u30	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Marchewka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Where is the promised support for airports? Where is the promised assistance for Szczecin-Goleniów airport? In June, Deputy Prime Minister Sasin flew to our region and promised to support the airport, which is in a difficult situation. It was supposed to happen in a few days. It's been four months, help if there wasn't, there isn't. If it hadn't been for local authorities, some regional airports would have gone bankrupt by now. You told us that you were waiting for the decision of the European Commission, only that the European Commission wrote you back that you didn't have to ask anything, but you could help. This is an expression of your total incompetence and amateurism, which could really lead to the collapse of regional airports. I expect you to correct this mistake. I expect you to start fulfilling your promises. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And finally, you're gonna be helping out because that's what the West Pomeranian people are waiting for... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and passengers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u32	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have two questions. Firstly, the draft law raises the question of the Self-Government Road Fund. The aim is to increase the fund's resources to PLN 5.4 billion in 2020, but also to increase the amount of PLN half a billion in 2021. Therefore, my question is: Are we planning... Different. Don't we plan on developing these roads in 2021 at all? And the second point that we have already mentioned here many times is that we are asking for an explanation of what funds we are talking about when it comes to assistance to airports. On the one hand, the government announced PLN 142 million for aid to airports across Poland. The relevant Regulation was adopted on 4 June. Later, a new draft regulation appeared. However, to this day we do not know whether these are the same measures that we are discussing today in relation to this bill, because in turn this bill refers to the reimbursement of really lost revenue (the bell) from March to June. I'm asking for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u34	Mrs Izabela Leszczyn, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In fact, in every COVID Law, the PiS uses epidemics to hide the effects of its inefficient five-year rule. In this law, you are de facto raising the VAT rate, and for the third time. This is the third time you raise VAT, and the Civic Platform has left a law that has introduced 22% since 2017. So I ask, why are you raising VAT for the third time? Or is it to hide the fact that there's no sealing because you destroyed the tax control by your non-crystal Banas? Is that why you are raising VAT to increase the economic potential of your country, as you said? I mean, don't you know that the country's economic potential is increased by tax reduction? Don't you see what the Germans did? 17% - the basic rate of VAT. And you guys are doing... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u36	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u37	Thank you so much. I'm here. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, we have a bill, and I agree that this is both an attempt to cover up the government's failure, as well as an attempt to cover up a lie, a lie that lasts five years. I think that some of the High House and some of the society remember how in July 2015 at the Katowice Convention Beata Szydło, candidate for Prime Minister, made a firm commitment to Poles. It is a firm commitment to reduce VAT to 22% and to 7%. And this hard lie of Beata Szydło, the hard lie of PiS has been for five years. You had time in 2016 to reduce VAT. You didn't do it. Moreover, in 2017, you didn't have to do anything, it was enough to apply the law that the predecessors left behind. So? And you extended the duration, the application of this tax... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u38	Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition Club. You're welcome. Those who have lifted now make us lower. You shouldn't talk at all. You'd let me finish, it'd be more serious. But a minute is a minute, not a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! My questions are about local government investments. This year we have dealt with a long and not transparent system for dealing with local applications for road financing. Many local governments have not received this money and do not know why. We don't know how much money was missing, I'm asking for an answer. My question is particularly whether these local governments that have not received money will be taken into account in the first place, because they are waiting for it. Will the system for examining these applications change to a more transparent and fast one? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u40	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u41	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I address the ministers. For the last 5 years, each year, the country has drawn 8 billion PLN from the pockets of Poles as a result of increased VAT. You pulled 40 billion PLN out of the Poles' pockets. You have introduced over PLN 40 billion of additional taxes and charges over the last five years. You were pulling money out of the Poles' pockets. So today, ladies and gentlemen, you better give money to local governments, they'll know what to do with it, what to do with it, what to do with what the people need. Don't steer from above. You've accepted the control model from upstairs. I'm finally gonna ask you about the medical fund. 2 billion PLN for public television and now a proposal from the president, the Medical Fund. No one can say, [[♪ The bell ♪]] How much will it be this year... Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition Club. ...and how much it's gonna be next year. It's a project that's written down to... You're selling a cat in a bag. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u42	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Your government had already demanded VAT reductions before the 2015 elections. When you came to power, the subject quickly disappeared. VAT did not fall even during the best times. We are 2020, not only that you still haven't lowered it when it was possible, but you are still creating a law in which the reduction of these rates will be permanently linked to the well-being of the budget, and that we have Coronavirus, then next year the VAT rates will remain at the current level again. You've destroyed the IRS and you've got a VAT problem. Until recently, the President of the National Bank of Poland said that as a country we are perfectly prepared for the crisis. We have an extremely good financial situation and we have unlimited amounts of cash. Explain to me if it's true. ♪ If it's so good ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] with public finances, as you convince us... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u44	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation. Madame, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I told you how bad this bill was. I'd like to say what's good about it now, because it's not in this bill yet. There may be rules that citizens are waiting for. Above all, it is about reducing labour taxation. Our request is to raise the tax-free amount and tie it to the minimum wage. That's a great idea. I know the Minister said that it is not worth raising the tax-free amount every year, but the state has not actually raised it in 12 years. That's the truth. You have slightly modified the mechanism for fixing this amount. The second case is a voluntary ZUS for entrepreneurs. Really, entrepreneurs are resourceful people who can predict what will happen in the near future, plan investments and are able to anticipate their pensions and know whether they are now profitable to invest in a company or save a company, or maybe put aside for your high-cost pension system. We will make such amendments (the bell) to this law. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u46	Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition. Wait a minute, Mr Michał Szczerba, the Civic Coalition Club. There's no envoy? There isn't. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am applying formally for the adjournment of the House until the Sejm Bureau has complied with the demands of the protesting farmers. At the moment, agricultural organisations have blocked Ujazdowskiego Avenue and are demanding a meeting with the Sejm Bureau on the agenda... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. Thank you very much. Please leave the podium. ...the Polish agriculture is being destroyed today. Mr. Marshal, I demand that my formal motion for adjournment be passed. [[Applause]] Yes, you can. Mr Sebastian Skuza has now the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal, I demand that this formal motion be voted out. Marshal, please refer to this formal proposal. Please leave the podium. This is not a formal conclusion. This is a formal conclusion. No, sir. Mr. Marshal, don't lie to me. Please do not destroy Polish agriculture in this way. Don't lie to me, Marshal. I ask you to proceed with my formal application. I have every right to do that. I ask you to proceed with my formal application. This is a granda, what you're doing. It is on the part of farmers to request a meeting with the Sejm Bureau. Mr President, on the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2a of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I state that your conduct in the sitting room violates the seriousness of the Sejm. You are violating the seriousness of the Sejm, destroying Polish agriculture. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think some of these questions are addressed to Minister Horala. They are very detailed, so we will try to respond in writing, especially with regard to individual investment projects. With regard to the support of the Airports, the question was asked about the amount of 142 million. Yeah, that's the amount reserved in the covid fund. The European Commission has not agreed to this form of regulation that has been prepared for us. As a result, the financing model has changed: by covering preparedness costs for partial losses. But the measures are the same, i.e. PLN 142 million. [[Applause]] The issue of goods and services tax. I don't think any country was prepared for a pandemic. Back to rates of 22% and 7% would mean a loss of revenue of PLN 9.9 billion. Allow me to cite such an example concerning the German market. Quote of 6 September, Germany: The reduction of VAT did not improve the retail situation. The German retail trade earned 0.3% in July. less than in June - informed the Federal Statistical Office in Wiesbaden. The real drop in commercial profits was even higher and amounted to 0.9%. However, the German economists, asked for feedback from the Reuter Agency, counted on an increase in trade turnover of 0.5%. I note that the Germans have reduced the main VAT rate from 19% to 16%. As regards the question concerning the order of financing of tasks by the Self-Government Road Fund, I will also answer in writing. I will refer to this in agreement with Minister Horała of the Ministry of Infrastructure. Issues related to the Medical Fund and the transfer of funds to local government units. The revision of the budget law includes the amount of PLN 2 billion in 2020 allocated to the Medical Fund. As regards local government units and additional resources for local government units, I would like to point out that 6 billion have already been transferred to investments in local government units, powiats and municipalities. It's been divided by an algorithm. Divided by an algorithm. Divided by an algorithm. 6 billion were divided by an algorithm and already transferred to local government units. An additional 6 billion local government units can apply to the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. In total, the Government Local Investment Fund is at the level of PLN 12 billion. In addition to the fact that 6 billion have already been transferred to the accounts of local government units... Algorithm? Algorithm, the algorithm has been passed on. You can even see how much money a given unit has received. But not basic. As far as issues related to tax-free amounts and ZUS are concerned, I think these are systemic changes. It's definitely not on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u49	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, Mr Marcin Horała, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u50	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Some of the questions actually concerned this airport thread, which is why I would like to enrich and clarify the information. In the original version of the regulation and of the mechanism we adopted, airport subsidies were to be based on the fact that the Prime Minister designated a list of public service airports and then the qualified part of the costs incurred by these airports is reimbursed to them. And this mechanism is scheduled for the whole year. Pre-nomination dialogue. I answer the question when we addressed the European Commission. Well, on July 31, everything on the Polish side was already ready. The fact that it was July 31st, not before, was due to the preparations for this prenotification. We have been in dialogue with the European Commission ever since. The Commission has asked us several times about different details. We took part in the Airports, asking for information, because most regional airports are on the board of local governments or are owned by local authorities. We do not have direct access to various financial or accounting information relating to these ports. We have provided this information to the European Commission. The conclusion of this dialogue, which is not yet complete and is still ongoing, is that at this moment we do not have this positive decision. From what direction this dialogue is going, we can presume that we can either not get it at all, or at least it will take a long, long time. And this conclusion, as far as what the European Commission is telling us, is this: because a significant proportion of airports in Poland had losses already before the epidemic, the COVID pandemic, and there were also those that had many years of loss and almost no profit at all since they existed, the subsidy mechanism at a time when there is no complete ban on flights, from the point of view of the European Commission, it raises doubts whether this is how the Polish government only covers the losses resulting from the COVID, or secretly provides unlawful public aid to airports whose problems arise from poor management, bad business model, non-pandemic causes. Hence the element of this amendment, where, according to the line proposed by the European Commission, we are redrafting the legal basis. About the same, i.e. 142 million PLN, we want to pay simply on a different basis: not on the basis of a mechanism for refunding the eligible category of costs for a year, but on the basis of a mechanism for covering losses for the period when air traffic was completely excluded. And there's actually so much to say. This is a formal change that will allow these measures to run faster. Those measures are. On the side of the Polish government everything that had to be done was done. However, to my surprise, some discovery for some of your fellow Members may be that we are a member of the European Union and we must respect the rules on unlawful state aid. Especially in the case of Szczecin, we know what happens when we fail to follow these rules. This should be strongly and painfully absorbed by the Civic Platform. Ladies and gentlemen! In conclusion, I would like to say one more exception, the Szczecin exception, where there is also another case which has been involved. This is an agreement which provides for a large investment of state airports at Szczecin-Goleniów airport. It is about 108 million PLN. This is a separate case. The agreement was concluded, and the agreement was concluded in which the contracting parties, i.e.Polish Airports of Aviation, local government and local government in Szczecin, knowing that the notification procedure in the case of such aid must take time, agreed that PPL would deliver 108 million, and at the time when this procedure takes place, current financing would provide the city of Szczecin, which is doing so, and the Sejmik of the West Pomeranian Voivodeship, which unfortunately by the mouth of Marshal Geblewicz is looking for different excuses to fail. I hope he's gonna make it. I understand that the airport in Berlin is opening up and that it needs to be provided with additional markets, but maybe not by a method of bringing down Szczecin-Goleniów airport. I urge you to reflect on this. And one last thing. That's what I said at the beginning. Unfortunately, the European Commission is right. Many regional ports in Poland had losses and without the COVID pandemic. There are those who have recorded all the losses since the creation, which were subsidised by voivodship authorities. This grant, this subsidy mechanism, will not solve these problems. This is a reimbursement, a reimbursement of the losses caused by the pandemic, but if any airport and without a pandemic were to suffer losses, we will not solve this problem. Of course, such an airport is in big trouble and in big trouble. But it's already a question to the owners, to those who built it, to accept a certain business structure of this port, so that it could be ordered so that it had an economic justification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u51	Thank you very much. Mrs Skowrońska, as corrected. Krysia! Has the Member resigned from the correction? No, no, of course not, Marshal. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u52	Dear Marshal, Thank you for giving me the floor in a corrective manner. Minister Skuza did not understand my statement, because my statement on subsidies for local governments points to the local government investment fund. Minister, it's not the same. It's not the same. And the algorithm you were talking about, transferred to investments, that's not the basic algorithm for this, for the subsidy you gave to local governments. You have created an algorithm that, for the purposes of this law and only this law, shows that some local governments receive more, others less. And here's the deal, there's the algorithm. But I asked, and you should understand, because you've been doing financial work for years, and we've often talked about it, that it's a basic algorithm, so that the local government can get additional education so that it can decide what it's going to spend money on (the bell) and doesn't need your algorithm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u53	Thank you, Member. Mr Wieczorek, also in the correction mode. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u54	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm in correction for Minister Horala's statement. Well, Minister, I want to calm down. The voivodship government does not intend to withdraw from the signed agreement. We cross our fingers so that you can carry out all the necessary procedures so that you can run the 108 million for this investment. But all this fuss, you can say, the airport, was just because from March these airports were closed. All airports in Poland have a very difficult economic situation, because it is known that when planes do not fly, there is also no revenue for airports. The authorities of the western Pomeranian voivodship only wanted to pay attention to speeding up this real aid for those losses that were incurred by regional airports. It was just part of the discussion. I assume that this law will solve this problem, although I would remind you that it is now September 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u55	Mr Szopiński is still being corrected. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u56	Dear Minister, The Ministry of Infrastructure on its official website on 22 May announced that airports would be able to receive a grant from the COVID counter fund under the Regulation. They will be required to maintain minimum operational readiness during an epidemic threat. The grant will be granted to cover the costs the catalogue of which will be included in the draft regulation. It was May 22nd. However, today you declared to the owners of these eight airports that Poland had only spoken to the European Commission in July. Therefore, there is a question to the Minister: What did the Ministry of Infrastructure do between 22 May and July?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u57	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal immediately after the end of point 2. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws (Print No 574). They're asking the Secretary of State at Mr. Ireneus's Climate Ministry to present the justification for the bill. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u58	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! I am pleased to present on behalf of the Minister for Climate Affairs a bill amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernization and Renovation and some other laws, print no. 574. Proceding on the submitted bill to promote thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws is primarily aimed at improving air quality. Improving air quality in Poland is one of the biggest challenges that public administrations take up at both government and local level. This is one of the most urgent needs of the modern world addressed by citizens to the rulers. This priority was also set as a priority for the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, among others. in the exposé of the Prime Minister. The government has prepared and implemented a priority programme for clean air, for which PLN 103 billion has been allocated over 11 years. However, in order to improve the functioning of this programme, to increase its impact, we would like to make some changes in the draft law that we are now proposing to the High House in three areas. Firstly, the priority programme itself will set up an economic guarantee and guarantee fund for the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which will be funded by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, so that it is a guarantee mechanism for loans granted by commercial banks, which will grant, under preferential conditions, loans to beneficiaries who wish to finance thermomodernisation projects that increase energy efficiency in residential buildings. The second element concerns the "Stop smog' programme, which the Ministry of Climate has taken over as a priority programme from the Ministry of Development. The most important changes concern mainly the extension of the scope of low-carbon projects to connect the building to the electricity grid, the modernisation of the existing heating, gas or electricity connection, the possibility of implementing low-carbon projects also in buildings in the housing resources of the municipality. It has to be said that the program "Stop smog" was designed in such a way that 70% investments are financed by the State, while 30% are financed by the State The implementation of budgetary investments is provided by the local government, with municipalities in cities with more than 100,000. The population share of the municipality increases by a minimum of 0.1%. In addition, we would like to reduce from 2% to 1%. the threshold for the number of single-family buildings that allows the municipality to be included and applied in the The minimum threshold is the number of 20 buildings that will jointly implement the thermomodernisation programme under the priority programme of.Stop smog. We also extend the deadline for implementing the agreement with the municipality from 3 years to 4 years. Another extremely important element that we propose in the provisions of the amended law are the provisions on the establishment of the Central Register of Buildings' Emissions, which will contain key information on the sources of emissions in the residential and communal sector. The process of identifying low emission sources will start with the collection of uniform and consistent data across the country. It is necessary to obtain information on buildings and their emission sources as part of the inventory of buildings. Until now, there have been inventory of the issue of buildings in municipalities, but this is inconsistent to varying degrees of progress. We would like to introduce a single programme that will help address programmes that we are about to prepare together with the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, to local governments, in order to eliminate low emissions, to improve air quality in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Dear Members, I dare you to note that this is a very good bill, which citizens are waiting for, and local government units. I ask you kindly to support this project by the High House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u59	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Jerzy Poleczek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u60	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! I would like, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice to present a position towards the government's draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws. Of course, it is a project worthy of support. It improves current financial instruments, which are dedicated directly to the implementation of air quality improvement projects in Poland, and also indirectly implement, firstly, both the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union in respect of the European Union's complaint against Poland in connection with the exceedance of air quality standards in the period 2007 The draft law envisages improving the effectiveness of support mainly for municipalities which implement low-carbon projects in single-family buildings, by adapting them to the current conditions and rules for participation and implementation of projects under the "Stop smog" programme. Secondly, the proposed law provides for the launch and creation of the Central Register of Building Emissibility. Thirdly, it improves the government's priority programme. It's clean air. The Minister has already referred to some of the changes contained in this regulation, such as a reduction in the threshold for a minimum number of single-family buildings, which allows application to the programme, from 2% to 1% and a one-off abolition of this limit when the municipality has previously concluded an agreement in this area. In addition, the period provided for after the end of the agreement on actions or commitments shall be reduced from 10 years to 5 years. As regards the other proposals contained in this amendment, the scope of the low-carbon project to connect the building to the electricity grid, as regards the modernisation of the existing heating, gas or electricity connection, is also allowed to implement low-carbon projects in buildings in the housing resources of the municipality. In addition, the government submission defines individual stakeholder groups, including data providers, to the Central Register of Buildings, i.e. the list of eligible persons, the entities supplying the central register, while ensuring a systematic update of the data collected into the system, allowing for its creation. This system will also allow for the collection of data on the energy status of buildings, information on all forms of public aid such as grants, preferential loans granted for thermo-modernisation tasks or for the replacement of boilers in buildings, as well as on forms of social assistance or other forms of public support to residents of these residential buildings. The project also, which is worth noting, improves the operation of the government's priority programme "Clean air." Firstly, it extends the scope of action of the national environmental fund and the voivodship funds - I am talking here about voivodship environmental and water protection funds - the possibility of financing guarantees provided by banks, including Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, within the framework of government programmes which are implemented, within the meaning of the Guarantees and Guarantees Act. Secondly, this is, I think, very good information for local authorities - it makes it easier for municipalities to borrow for climate protection tasks, including by excluding loans from a national fund or from voivodeship funds for the implementation of government programs such as the Clean Air Programme or the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, which evaluates very well the actions of the government and administration, both government and local government, in the field of conducting air quality policy in Poland, positively views the government's draft law on amending the law on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws. I think that today, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Energy Committee will urgently examine the adoption of the report on this important piece of legislation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u61	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to present my position on the bill that is being examined today. I will focus at the beginning on these two parts, which are kind of an adjustment in the government's mind, whether it's a stop smog, whether it's a clean air program. These adjustments are desirable and expected, although they do not solve the problem. It should be recalled, however, that while the scheme concerns municipalities - thermomodernisation, the exchange of heat sources for the poorest - the programme - Clean air, managed by the national environmental fund, is addressed directly to natural persons with single-family homes, as well as to persons with energy poverty status, but also to medium-rich people with income above 100,000. each year - these persons may benefit from a tax credit. On the one hand, the programme lacks systemic solutions and coherent, effective projects, on the other hand, very decent, systemic regulation is lacking, in particular those relating to the provision of funding. The Clean Air programme has no legal basis at all. According to the Prime Minister's declaration, PLN 103 billion were allocated, of which 63 billion in 10 years. Less than 3% of this was spent on it. Currently, after implementation, the programme is calculated for 500 years at this rate. The "Stop smog" program is an extremely narrow program. Please note that it is financed from the fact that Poles buy plastic bags. The programme has been allocated 1,200 million over 4 years and is so attractive that only 48 million will be spent by 2022. The regulation in this law, of course, extends this access, but to a small extent, with all the disadvantages I have been talking about. After all, it was enough to process a draft law, a system bill, which we filed twice in the Seym in the previous term. We'll probably do it again, we'll put it back together, because this is the only solution that can civilizely actually accelerate it and provide the Poles with clean air - those Poles who die in tens of thousands earlier due to poor air quality. But I would like to focus on the fundamental issue of this law, which I think should be separated by a separate law, namely the Central Register of Building Emissivity. This central record does not meet the basic criteria, including the functional criterion. The method of data collection and configuration do not indicate any efficiency and fulfilment of the criteria of being a tool, especially for local authorities, air quality management and improvement. Records are chaotic, data will be obtained from different sources. Imagine, for example. I want my 80-year-old neighbor to testify, put in the records what's her name, where she lives, what's her phone number, what's her e-mail address, and what's the efficiency of the heat sources in her apartment according to her birthmarks. But she doesn't have a sign like that. She only has a goat like that. It also has to calculate the average air temperature of the house, the thickness of walls and ceilings, not to mention the year of building the house - she does not remember this year. And it's all to be processed, controlled. Of course, local authorities are burdened with this, but the whole is to be managed by a central base. Personal data are to be collected in this database. The President of the Office for Personal Data Protection questioned the compatibility of the collection and processing of such data with the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the protection of personal data. They're inefficient, and nobody needs them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This database is also intended to gather information on the financial situation, the income of individual citizens and subsidies for them. At the committee's meeting, we will ask for details of these solutions, and we do not rule out that, at second reading, we will make an amendment to exclude this issue from a separate regulation, consulted and properly, seriously prepared, because such a record is needed, only it must be functional, effective and inclusive of the protection of citizens' personal data, because we will have another basis to draw information on everything about citizens. Thank you very much. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u63	Thank you very much, Member. On behalf of the parliamentary club Coalition Poland... excuse me, Mrs Beata Maciejewska and Mr Przemysław Koperski will speak on the left. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u64	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland needs a good climate, Poland needs clean air, which is not easy with current governments - mainly because we still smoke with coal, that our buildings still require thermomodernization. Please indicate, for example, single-family homes, 72% of them, i.e. 3.6 million houses in Poland are badly isolated. Heat losses are large, in fact in the radiator houses not only heat our apartments, but also air outside. An enormous problem in Poland is energy poverty caused by both low revenues and insufficient energy efficiency and high energy costs. 10% households in Poland are struggling with energy poverty, people cannot afford to heat their homes and their homes. This most often affects people who live in the countryside, as well as pensioners and pensioners. The government bill we're investigating is designed to fix what the government has ruined so far, because both the programs that are going to be repaired today, both the. Stop smog and the clean air, were badly prepared, were inefficient, ineffective, were basically Just bureaucracy. Looking at, for example, the "Stop smog', it must be said that only four agreements with municipalities have been concluded under this government programme and three conclusions have been examined, i.e. that the government programme has benefited from 0,3% so far. municipalities. This is the scale of government effectiveness when it comes to providing good air for Poles and Poles. This project presents new, more flexible tools in terms of how eligible costs can be, how the number of households that will apply for funding can be reduced. The Left believes that this project should be further examined, that we will be submitting amendments to it at the committee meeting which will be held in a moment. We also point out that we are opposed to reducing the need for heating from 50 to 30%, because we want the thermomodernization of buildings to be as large as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u65	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Przemysław Koperski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u66	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland has had the most polluted air in the European Union for years. The smog kills nearly 50,000 a year. Poles and Poles, that's 12% all deaths. So it is not by chance that there are 36 cities from Poland on the list of the most polluted cities of the European Union, among them also those that we know very well from my constituency: Żywiec, Bielsko, Pszczyna, but also located next to Rybnik. Many places unfortunately do not exist because the chief environmental inspector refuses to locate the station's measurement and air quality, as happened in the case of Czechowice-Dziedzic. I would also like to draw attention to what Prof. Andrzej Lekston from the Silesian Heart Disease Center in Zabrze, who has for years pointed out that smog not only attacks the heart and lungs, but also drastically reduces the production of testosterone, impairs fertility, impairs the immunity of children already in fetal life. I am the head of the antismog team, and I am very pleased to have the government and the Ministry of Climate to amend the law. We've been talking about this since the beginning of this term. I am glad that many of the recommendations we have submitted are reflected in the bill. Unfortunately, not all of them. What is most exciting is that you want to involve the municipalities to a greater extent in the implementation of thermomodernisation activities. On the other hand, the proposed changes leave much to be desired, as demonstrated by the stakeholders consulted. The legislator cannot ignore the comments of stakeholders, social organisations, experts, and there are plenty of these. There's not much time left, so I'm just gonna say a few. The Polish Academy of Sciences indicates among others. for unequal treatment of owners of buildings benefiting from state aid, municipalities note how often in the PiS activities they add further tasks to local governments without providing adequate funding, and housing cooperatives and housing communities rightly indicate that they also have the right to financial resources for the thermomodernisation of buildings or for the exchange of heat sources. After all, in housing communities and municipal multi-family buildings (the bell) we are dealing with tile furnaces, in which we also burn coal producing killer smog for us. I'd like to say one last thing, if you don't mind, Marshal. I just want to finish my thought. Of course, we are in favour of directing this project to further proceding, but I am asking you to finally be credible in your declarations and start implementing them. We remember 2018 when you promised PLN 100 billion to fight smog, PLN 10 billion a year. We have reports - because we get them as an antismog team - which shows that only a few percent of this amount is spent on the fight for clean air. And I would like to point out that the right to clean air is one of our fundamental rights, it comes from the right to live, and we need to do everything to ensure that Poles finally have access to this right, so that many of our compatriots simply do not have to worry every year that this autumn or this winter their loved ones will leave this world. Please stop cheating and finally hand over funds to local governments, housing communities and Poles who live in single-family houses. Thank you very much and I apologize for the extension. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u67	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, then Mr Jakub Kulesza, will speak first on behalf of the Confederacy Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u68	God bless you! Mr. Marshal! We're filing a formal application... [[Speaker: Grzegorz Braun, Jakub Kulesza and Robert Winnicki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u69	And what's this three-way formula? [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...an adjournment of the proceedings of the High House in accordance with the Rule. 184 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the time needed for the Sejm Bureau to meet with a delegation of representatives of the agricultural environments at the Sejm. Sincerely, the signed Members of the Confederation. And we're asking you to proceed... Thank you very much for your request. My time is not over yet. Good. But, sir, if you don't mind. Time will be added to you so you don't feel uncomfortable. I would like to say that we will proceed to the vote on this proposal immediately after the end of this point. Mr. Marshal! We feel, and that's why we're standing here with the three of us... But you're welcome... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, There is no formula for standing in front of the speaker. Ha, ha, ha! All he has to do is speak to one of his fellow Members, and the others will accompany him to... Mr. Marshal, we are facing the liquidation of many sectors of Polish agriculture, which Jarosław Kaczyński wants to do with his ring. What's this? And we would be very uncomfortable to continue the discussion about dragonflies, but not at the moment. Dear Members, The three of you are about to cross the limits of ridicule as this exotic tercet. [[Applause]] There's been a motion... History will judge, Marshal. History will judge. We're court-martialed. We protest against the liquidation of Polish breeding. A request has been made that will be considered seriously. I therefore ask that Mr Grzegorz Braun continue his statement now. So we're gonna quit... We're starting to count the time from the beginning. And I ask Members of the House to take your seats where you should sit. Thank you, then we wait for the vote... Yes, sir. Thank you, sir, because Marshal Terlecki has prevented us from voting on such a motion, so that we thank the Marshal. Then sit in the benches. Mr. Marshal! Circle of the Confederation is giving up the possibility to participate in the discussion on the important, but not the first one today from our point of view of the issue of thermomodernization. We will be happy to lean on this issue in a more reasonable time. Today, the reality is knocking on the door of the High House and we ask that this door not remain closed. We ask the Bureau to correct the error of the government of the Republic of Poland, which is to ignore the position of representatives of the agri-food industry, so that the Bureau of the Sejm corrects the error of representatives of the parliamentary majority, the error of submitting such legal projects, which aim to eliminate a significant branch of Polish entrepreneurship. I therefore waive the possibility of continuing my speech, hoping that the representatives of the protestors will be heard by the Sejm Bureau. Thank you very much. Thank you very much to Mr Grzegorz Braun for speaking on behalf of the Confederate circle. Please take the floor of Mr Jakub Kulesza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I am very pleased that this thermomodernisation project can be discussed equally, because every parliamentary representation, which is a representation of a part of society, has an even 5 minutes to make its speech. This project can be fully consulted, including the social side. It is a pity that such a possibility does not have a project aimed at destroying Polish agriculture. The project, which did not go through the government path, was not preceded by a public consultation, maybe not including the speech of the president at TikToku, but it is hard to call it a public consultation. And as part of this project, I have the impression that the main defenders of Polish agriculture, or the Confederation, were harmed by the Sejm Bureau, which, without any point in the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, because no provision of the Sejm's Rules of Procedure indicates that the circle should have less time than the parliamentary club, decided that parliamentary clubs for two projects would have 10 minutes and that the parliamentary circle for two projects concerning Polish agriculture would have 5 minutes. This is outrageous behavior. The Sejm Bureau had the right to do so, but it had no legal basis, since the rules do not indicate that the circle and the parliamentary club should be distinguished in this way. This is democracy so that in this House the voice of all social groups is equally represented. So that I thank the marshal very much for the opportunity to vote on this formal proposal. We will demand that the project that destroys Polish agriculture has at least the chance of such micro-social consultations within the Sejm Bureau, which has the opportunity to throw this harmful project off the agenda. And in terms of thermomodernization, because that's how I used that time, and we have a topic of thermomodernization, I'd like to remind the honourable ministers that I don't see in government benches that... They're here, ...are in the parliamentary benches, indeed many Members of the Law and Justice are also vice-ministers - that ecology is economics, that is, the management of rare resources. Rare resources like fuel, clean air, like the environment. And the state, by adding red tape, will not make people's habits more ecological, or economical, all of a sudden. You will produce tons of paper for your records, use several hours of electricity to maintain the servers on which you will be meticulously keeping information on whether someone smokes in one way or another. This isn't the way. Indeed, bureaucracy also causes huge costs, including environmental costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u71	Thank you very much, sir. This speech on behalf of the clubs and parliamentary circles ended. The questions have been addressed by 14 Members. If no one else wants to ask any more questions, I'm closing this list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. The first question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left. There's no envoy. Then it's the next person. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We should all care about improving the air quality we breathe. No matter how political we feel, we breathe the same way. The thermomodernisation support project should be a permanent element of government policy and should cover as broad a group of citizens as possible. However, the proposal we have today restricts the availability of this project for both citizens and for local governments, which will not carry out another task, for which there is no 100% funding. Unfortunately, it is. Ladies and gentlemen, further promises, further announcements of aid, as in the case of the Clean Air programme, which is not followed by specific funding. I ask: Why is this happening? If we want to help, let's do it effectively. We've got another heating season ahead of us and another dust crossing, and another smog over our country. And what will it be then, ladies and gentlemen? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will present the Prime Minister or Minister and say: We have prepared a support project. Helpless. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u73	Thank you very much. We ask Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u74	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Clean air - it is, of course, a duty of public authority, government, self-government, interest by these public bodies also of citizens and economic operators. In my opinion, the draft law that has been prepared is not enough to allow us to effectively introduce these government projects. First of all, with regard to the Clean Air programme, today I think the biggest problem, according to Cinderella observation, is among low income families, i.e. for economic reasons. There's still an element of consciousness. If we do not put in place instruments that will significantly facilitate, firstly, helping to prepare this project, secondly, wider instruments to support these people, then we will not achieve the intended effect. And thirdly, the communes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There must be a greater share of the state, of state aid in carrying out this in terms of municipalities, because, in the context of other responsibilities, reduced own income, education, municipalities, especially rural municipalities, will not take this issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u75	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, ladies and gentlemen, the program to limit the smog, which is supposed to make the air clean, doesn't work. In fact, we are dealing with a number of propaganda activities. There's no financial means for that. There's no procedure. Therefore, the inhabitants will continue to breathe dust, to inhale compounds that are dangerous to their health. I represent the region, which is one of the most polluted in Poland - Bielsko-Biała, powiats Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywiecki lead in these pollutions. The role of the government is to implement such mechanisms and funding to improve air quality. We don't see it there. And the basic question is, when will the government finally end this propaganda and really get to work? Second question: How do you operate that insurance corporations (the bell) have had such a strong impact on these regulations? This is a curiosity situation in which insurance companies receive State aid in the fight against those who insure their property in order to avoid payment of compensation. And the question to the PiS government: Whose side are you on? On the side of insurance corporations or on the side of ordinary Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u77	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u78	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This document shows that... You have presented us a bubble not so long ago, the project of the Clean Air programme. When we put forward concrete amendments, concrete solutions when local governments were banging on and on, they kept complaining about this program, and they thought that this program would not have real effect, you said yours. I'm glad you're awake. The question is whether it's constructive again. The Minister said that this program was consulted with local government officials. I ask: How did the local government adopt the program, that you present the project, additional tasks you impose on the local authorities and do not give them any additional funds? You yourself secure over 20 million in this project for the central registration of buildings. Minister, what do the local authorities say? They've got extra work to do. Of course, you've secured money for yourself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And how much money have you allocated to local governments to implement this program? How does this programme fit into Poland's energy policy by 2040 in the context of your department of amendments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u79	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u80	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's time to face the truth. What's with the carbon? This question is quite important in the context of this thermomodernization act, because it is directionally correct - the air should be cleaner - but you are introducing the elimination of surcharges for boiler class 5. It's a good thing you're doing this, because it really means that in distributed, low-carbon coal will be banned in a moment, just finally tell the truth by standing on the Seym Council, and announce a program in which you will clearly show what year the coal economy will be in place and from which it will not apply real aid instruments to mining districts to apply a fair energy transformation and to allocate certain money so that people living in mining or mining areas will be able to do so. [[♪ The bell ♪]] they could have benefited from government aid. We demand a specific energy programme for Poland by 2040. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u81	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Fighting for clean air is fighting time. Five years of rule of law and justice have passed. So? Little steps, almost no changes, and here you need a milestone, ladies and gentlemen. This project does not fulfil this in order to achieve such a temporal effect, and also the central registration of buildings, which will be durable, which is very detailed, ultimately does not constitute any instrument for fighting for air quality. It's a data collection, like a name, a phone number, etc. It's gonna be out of date in a minute, 'cause there's nothing standing in the real estate market. I want to ask how long this program will be developed, rather this database or records, how much it will cost and when it is completed. And by the way, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then why do you need it? I think it's pointless. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u83	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u84	One of the main objectives of the energy strategy in Germany, Energiewende, is to reduce the energy consumption of buildings by 80% by 2050. There's no mistake here: 80%, not 80%. Today, most buildings in Germany are built in a passive or better standard. I have read the assumptions of the updated energy policy of Poland, PEP2040, and I have not found a measurable, concrete goal in terms of energy efficiency. I therefore ask Mr Kurtyka: What is the aim of reducing the consumption of heat in buildings in the energy strategy of PEP2040? And I have a second question for the Sejm and Senate, because I think that as officials we should set a good example in the thermomodernization of buildings. The question is: What is the coefficient of thermal permeability (The Bell) of the Sejm and Senate buildings, and how is the firm going to increase the energy efficiency of these buildings? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u85	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u86	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to remind you, because it is not enough to remind you of the effectiveness of these epoch programs, which are constantly announced at press conferences. Let's get things straight. Clean air - 103 billion per 10 years, of which 63.3 billion alone, or 6.3 billion per year. For 2019 613 million have been contracted, but only 195 million 700 have been paid to people, i.e. 3% annual plans. That's why I said that this program is for 500 years, because at this rate it's going to be 500 years, and it's not just because there's no money - because it doesn't exist, there's no legal basis or qualified source - but also because of the way it's being processed, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and these accelerations, the improvement of this programme will not change much in this regard. Just one more question: Will additional burdens reduce subsidies from the national fund, the amounts that under this Act are earmarked for municipalities to support the system and banks to the guarantee system? This will also reduce this amount, and this year it is planned to be less than 10% And spending, as we can see, is at 3%. expenditure planned. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u87	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u88	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law has already been proposed to extend it and to include multi-family buildings. These comments were not taken into account and the Ministry expressed the view that the thermomodernisation premium was the instrument dedicated to the support of multi-family buildings. I wanted to ask whether the Ministry intends to address the situation of multi-family buildings and to develop a system of thermomodernization aid for multi-family construction, or whether the thermomodernization bonus will be the only instrument. And one last thing. I'd like to ask you about this issue record. How will she be developed, and what will it do for us? I'd like the resort to answer my questions in writing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u89	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u90	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is completely incomprehensible that today the priority for the Polish government is not to fight smog and the priority is not to provide clean air. This should be an absolute priority today not only for us but also in a special way for future generations. Because today in Poland thousands of people die from diseases caused by smog. Today, Polish cities lead the first on the list of the most polluted. Therefore, rapid and effective action is essential. And today, in the bill under review, we are dealing with records, with criteria that eliminate thousands of people because of their income. Today we are dealing with a situation in which this money turns out to be more important than this aspect, which should be a priority, i.e. ensuring and guaranteeing clean air. [[Applause]] So when there is an effective program to fight smog (the bell), where there will be no income criterion, which will not contain the criteria that we face today, and the priority of clean air will be the most important one? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u91	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all remember how in 2018 Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that he would spend over PLN 100 billion to fight the smog, for which in 10 years 3 million kopciuch will be eliminated. Where is it? Meanwhile, their exchange is at a snail's pace. You're ineffective. Now the new tool to fight low emissions is to be the Central Register of Building Emissions, to which all sources of heating are to go. While its introduction should be assessed positively, according to the contested law, local authorities will be responsible for the inventory of heat sources in their territory and for the indirect creation of a base. It is not known from now on that local governments are overloaded with tasks, their situation is difficult, and you are constantly adding further tasks to them. Why doesn't the amendment assume [[♪ The bell ♪]] financial support for local authorities to carry out the tasks assigned to them? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u93	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska from the left club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u94	In general, the "Stop smog" project is going in a very good direction. I have a question about whether there will be subsidies to replace the heating sources themselves, i.e. furnaces, not only for poor families that cannot afford to do so. Because then there is no provision for aid for energy costs - e.g. Gas furnaces generate higher costs than coal furnaces. There is a need for subsidies for families who require this, otherwise it discourages this exchange. There was talk of a change of consciousness. Will the Ministry of National Education implement programmes on climate change and the need to give up smoking and CO2 production? [[ringtone]] This information goes to young people and young people can convince grandparents or parents to do so. This problem was mentioned today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u95	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Do you see a minister? There isn't. Mrs... Is the Minister responsible? Good. Because we don't know if this ministry is still here. So, Mr. Marshal, Minister, over the last five years, you've spent several billion gold on miners, on mining. Over the last five years, the state has spent 1.5 billion on the construction of a power plant in Ostrołęka, of which nothing has worked. Over the last 5 years, the state has promised clean air and created a clean air programme: 1,2 billion, execution: 48 million. Minister! Who will be responsible for the failure to implement the Clean Air programme over the last 5 years? I wanted to ask you if this is going to be the next years where you're going to be clogged with the preparation of the central issue register. Are you even going to implement this program? I wanted to ask who was responsible for the failure to implement the Clean Air programme. I expect an answer in writing. I also expect (the bell) information from the Minister about support without criteria for residents and support for entrepreneurs who could transmit and emit even less pollution into the air. This program has been your card for the last 5 years: 48 million spent, 1,200 million planned. Scandal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u97	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Paul Krutul's question from the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u98	Mr. Marshal! Minister! If you are, or at least you were, I have the following question. It is very important that in times when in Poland about 40,000, 50,000. Poles and Poles die every year because of air pollution, there have been efforts to improve their quality. It is only a pity that over the last five years the government has seemed to be unaware of this problem, and in Mr Andrzej Duda's recent presidential campaign, we have been persuaded that coal is the best source of energy. I would like to know if the government, with the same determination with which it designed the provisions of this law, will proceed to the planned energy transformation where Polish mines will be closed in a few, dozen years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u99	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Stop smogs, clean air, subsequent programs, and coal from Colombia as it came to Poland, so it continues to flow and we do nothing about it, it lags on the heaps in Silesia. Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to ask you if you thought in these programs about thermomodernization - because now we are talking about a law on thermomodernization - buildings of multi-family housing cooperatives in the context of what we have raised sometimes, co-financing this thermomodernization with PFRON money for housing cooperatives. Housing cooperatives have a very big problem with this because they cannot benefit from these measures. One time we've been asking for this record to be in the next edition (the bell) of these laws, and if it's not there, it's not there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u101	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Building responsibility for anti-smog policy has been with us for many years, but it does not end in replacing furnaces, which are still 3 million. In Bydgoszcz alone we are dealing with over 20,000. kilns that should be mentioned but are not, because the government cannot afford it, and the state does not help citizens. I ask the Minister to clarify whether it is possible to introduce solutions that will give 100 per cent subsidies to those poorest kiln users who feel that this energy mix, the climate neutrality we want to introduce, will actually be implemented. If it ends only on assumptions that say that the next 10 or 20 years have to do indicators, we can't deal with this problem. Here we need concrete, real money that will be directed to the inhabitants of cities such as Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u103	Thank you. I now ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One thing needs to be realised: even the best thermomodernization programs will not improve the quality of Polish air, the quality that costs more than 40 thousand lives. Poles every year. I wanted to ask Prime Minister Morawiecki, because most of the ministers present will most likely change the role of ministers to others, and the only sure function, as President Kaczyński said, is Prime Minister Morawiecki, so the question is to him: When does the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers intend to change the trend when it comes to increasing the import of poor quality coal from Russia, which is one of the reasons for this terrible air condition? Let me just remind you that in 2015. Poland imported slightly more than 4 million tons of coal from Russia, and in 2019 almost 11. When's the Prime Minister gonna clean this up? I would also like to ask for an answer (the bell) in writing in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u105	Thank you very much. The list of Members who joined the questions has been exhausted. So now I ask you to answer the questions asked earlier by Mr. Ireneus Navy, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u106	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened attentively to the questions and earlier speeches of your parliamentarians. In the first sentence, I would like to address Members of the Civic Platform or the Civil Coalition more widely today and Members of the Polish People's Party. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the years you were in charge, in the years 2007 and 2015 you did absolutely nothing to improve air quality in Poland. This dramatic situation was noted by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which, in its judgment of 22 February 2018, stated that the Government of the Republic of Poland, which then constituted the States of the Group, the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, did not take effective or efficient action in any zones which were then measured. These overruns in PM10 particulate matter in 44 areas that were measured were dramatic. It's just, ladies and gentlemen, it's very inconvenient for you. Only the Government of Law and Justice, taking action by launching a priority programme of clean air for which PLN 103 billion has been allocated, expanding the impact of this programme all the time, for example with this bill, which we are now presenting to the High House... We want every Pole, anyone who has a need to carry out thermomodernisation of the exchange of heating sources, to be able to benefit from these measures, because they are guaranteed And they're available. Today, Poles use too little of the resources that the government has allocated to thermomodernisation, to air protection, to the elimination of low emissions. I will say that during the year, from 2018 to 2019, the number of zones in which PM10 dust is exceeded has fallen from 39 to 22. Within the framework of the implementation of the "Clean Air" programme, 162.7 thousand were submitted. applications for a total amount of PLN 3180 million. The thermomodernization relief that the Poles benefited from in 2019 is another 3 billion PLN. And who brought her in, Minister? In our time. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't have enough time to answer all the specific questions, but you must refer to what you said in your speeches, among others. In a club performance... Excuse me. I would like to recall the name of the Member who referred to the level of... The introduction of a threshold of 30% reduction in heating demand, combined, in all low-carbon projects carried out by the municipality within the framework of the "Stop smog' programme, is guaranteed by the Act. Here I would like to reassure your parliamentarians that the content of the amendment you have announced is already included in the bill, so it is absolutely unnecessary to make this amendment. Concerning the agreement with the joint government and local government committee: The project was accepted by the joint government and local government committee. Similarly, we agreed on this issue with the General Data Protection Officer on the availability of the data that are to be created in the Central Register of Buildings' Issues. Local governments will not bear the costs of records. Access to this register will be free of charge. The protection of personal data is guaranteed and here all data is secured. This record is necessary in order to support the government's activities with this tool, to direct them properly to the places where these crossings are located. Maybe I can answer Mr Mirosław Suchoni from memory. Mr. Speaker! On Friday, Minister Michał Kurtyka, as well as I will be in Pszczyna at a meeting with the Mayor, but we will not only be there, but also in other cities of Upper Silesia. We are preparing a programme that will extend the impact of the.Clean air in Upper Silesia, where there are most cities contaminated with emissions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! It must be said that these are very effective measures at the moment, and this bill is heading in the right direction, in order to broaden its impact, to direct it to more beneficiaries in relation to today. I am convinced that we have nothing to be ashamed of, and what you are saying is pure propaganda, as opposed to the implementation of the "Clean Air" programme, which achieves good results, is well judged by the Polish society. Finally, I would like to say that the proposal put forward by the candidate of your political camp for President of Mr Rafał Trzaskowski, who called for the launch of an ecological voucher worth 10,000 in Poland. zł, it is completely shot out and inadequate, because the Clean Air programme is already being implemented today. In the case of Polish citizens who have an income of 100,000. Every year, it's 32,000. PLN, and in the case of Polish citizens, whose income per head in the family, in the household is 1400 PLN - even 37 thousand PLN. zł. On the other hand, under the "Stop smog' scheme, beneficiaries can obtain funding or 100% funding its needs in the field of thermomodernisation and the exchange of heating sources, provided that the municipality also joins. Ladies and gentlemen! The government's actions, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki's Prime Minister, are responsible and effective, and the bill that we have tabled to the High House will lead to the fact that as a society, we will be able to absorb more of the resources that have been earmarked for this purpose. Let me remind you that this is about PLN 103 billion. So far, this amount has never been included in any government programme to eliminate smog and improve air quality. I ask the High House to support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u107	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovation and certain other laws, contained in print No 574, to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets and the Committee on Infrastructure for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute recess, followed by a vote. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 46 hours 12 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. Before the votes, we will proceed with a quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. It's not working. It's working. 380 Members participate in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016, - ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018. The reports shall be printed in 599 and 592 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these points, he listened to three-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. A formal request for adjournment has been submitted. I will put this motion to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 37 - for, 371 - against, 12 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm's Bureau, sent this draft law together with an auto-correction to the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 590 and 590-A will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 431 Members voted. 159 - for, 264 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred the draft law together with the self-amendment to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finances on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them (prints Nos 539 and 569). I ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! August 12th this year The Marshal of the Sejm sent a draft of Print No. 539 to the Committee on Public Finance to carry out a first reading. On 14 August this year. a meeting of the Committee on Public Finance was held and the first reading of the bill was carried out. During a long discussion, Members asked questions and shared their comments. Article 4 is amended as follows: 1 paragraph 2nd draft law. As a result of the vote, the bill was adopted. The committee's report is contained in print No 569. The Committee on Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt a bill. Thank you very much. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u109	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Costowniak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice against draft Print Act No 539 on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crises caused by them. Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to make three amendments to this draft law. One of them concerns Article. 10d, which seems to be the most controversial in the opposition's opinion - the opposition has been commenting on the so-called. the impunity of the conduct of public officials. Ladies and gentlemen! The provisions of this law, which we make, first of all, are intended to ensure that the actions that have been taken in the event of a health and life threat, because most often in such a way, in such circumstances, they have been taken, are actions which, in the opinion of some, may give priority to the situation relating to today's legislation. But the proposed solutions do not introduce impunity, as some would like to see or as some present it, only regulate the rules on activities in a higher state of necessity, because life and health are the highest value regardless of how we consider and weigh individual goods. Ladies and gentlemen! A person who performs professional duties in a life-threatening situation shall not be punished. I think it seems understandable to everyone if life is a superior value. In a situation of danger to health and life, we need to act immediately and such actions, ladies and gentlemen, have been taken not only in our country but throughout the world. Someone who's been making an assessment of the situation a few months ago probably does it coldly, but let's also remember that over six months ago, the whole world didn't know how to behave in these situations. What is more, I think that these regulations, not only in Poland but also in the world, will be updated many times, because the situation, as far as Coronavirus is concerned, is not yet fully investigated by anyone. The World Health Organization, let's not kid ourselves, it doesn't know what to do with this thing. The different countries present different anti-COVID policies. They are assessed differently, depending on the month, depending on the period. Some ministers, prime ministers, are blamed because perhaps at the moment there is a little less disease in the countries concerned, this wave comes later and someone treats, evaluates one or another solution depending on the day and hour. So I would encourage us to consider all these actions, bearing in mind that all those who are taking action in the field of COVID-19 are confronted with a completely new phenomenon which has not been clearly defined in any way in the legal system of any country. These actions, ladies and gentlemen, were taken not only by politicians, but also by officials, perhaps all possible services in our country. But let us also remember the locals, the whole health service. Or even businessmen. There are no entrepreneurs there. The moment we take very sharp steps... There's no law in there. What are you talking about? We will probably discuss whether every person making a decision as an officer, but also - and I will insist - an entrepreneur will have to be punished. It's not there. Ladies and gentlemen! The Act does not exclude in any way liability for benefits of any kind. I'm looking towards the opposition. You often talk about property benefits. The Act does not exclude in any way liability for this or other personal benefits, which are by far a broader concept. Ladies and gentlemen! The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the bill. For impunity. In this way, I will allow the marshal to make amends. Ladies and gentlemen! Once again, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u111	Thank you very much, sir. I now ask the floor of Mr Jarosław Urbaniak, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I apply to reject this bill in its entirety, [[Applause]] a project which, like no other in the last 30 years, destroys the Polish legal system. This project is two articles, three sentences, and the effect and effect - shocking. Isn't there something about impunity? Let's read a passage from the most important sentence in this project: it does not commit a crime, who, in order to counter COVID-19, violates duty or applicable legislation if it is in the social interest. [[Applause]] There's no impunity? What's that? Let's see how this fits into our Polish constitution. Art. 2 provides that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state that implements the principles of social justice. It is difficult to reconcile with the values of the democratic state, the rule of law, and in particular the principles of social justice, the concept in which the state - here we must stress: the PiS state - practically legalizes the violation of law by a specific group of people, by officials and politicians of the PiS. Let's take art. 7 of our constitution. This provides that public authorities operate on the basis and within the limits of the law. This project like no other clearly and unambiguously legitimizes the activities of PiS officials and politicians outside the law. [[Applause]] And at this point we need to be clear: these two articles of the Polish Constitution are not unusual, they are not our Polish ideas. In the constitutions of democratic states, fair states, where the principles of justice are actually implemented, there are similar rules. Moreover, even in the constitutions of totalitarian states there are similar rules. It is true that politicians in totalitarian countries do not break, but in the Constitution there are such rules. PiS has already introduced similar legislation in the atmosphere of the epidemic in spring, but these only dealt with official crimes and violations of public finance discipline and really in terms of the purchase of goods and services. So today, the question is, what did the PiS do in the last few months, that we need to expand this impunity so much. Today, the day after the Voivodship Administrative Court stated that Prime Minister Morawiecki had made an incorrect, illegal, even gross violation of the law, decision that the elections would be held by the Polish Post, it can be said, looking at the fact that this law, these regulations will eventually work backwards, that these regulations are so that Prime Minister Morawiecki might feel unpunished so that this project would protect him. As for the issue raised here by my previous speaker of higher necessity, protection of life and health today, in September, we already know that this is fiction, absolute fiction. During that time, weird contracts were signed with suspicious entities and this was done immediately, in a higher degree of necessity. Moreover, money was also transferred immediately in a higher need, but the delivery of such a higher necessity was no longer known. Contracts were signed where delivery dates were several- or several months old. Moreover, we know today that some goods have not been delivered to this day. And the money? As to guess, the money is on well-interested deposits and puts money on arms dealers, oscypki dealers and others, e.g. ski instructors. [[Applause]] And the ministers, I think. Such (the bell) demolishing the law, destroying the sense of justice in the history of free Poland was not yet there. And here we have to emphasize that this is done by a party that has a right and justice in its name. But you are neither righteous nor righteous. For what do you wish to praise? That a thief isn't a thief, that a fraud isn't a fraud, and a scandalist isn't an aficionado. Only on one condition that he's yours, that he's from the PiS. [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u113	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Left Parliamentary Club will be presented by Marshal Vladimir Czarzasty. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It shall not commit a crime which, in order to counter COVID-19, infringes obligations or applicable rules if it acts in the public interest and without prejudice to those obligations or provisions, the action taken would not be possible or would be significantly impeded. Ladies and gentlemen, translating from PiS-Polish into Polish, you will be able to steal, cheat, you will be able to use force and it is enough to justify fighting a pandemic to avoid punishment for what has happened in the past as well as in the future. There is only one condition - belonging to the ruling party, to the new elite, to the elite who goes to the cemeteries, and others cannot, who lays flowers under the monument, and hundreds of policemen close the city, whose leader has protection cost hundreds of thousands of zlotys, which flies with families flying planes... Millions. ...for state money, which is unpunished when it comes to colliding a government column with a seicencento whose evidence of crime goes unpunished. The party fighting for the people against the elites itself became an elite. Poland has turned into a farm where everyone is equal, but some are equally, and now they will be impunityless. Unpunished because they're fighting for us. They're gonna get rich for us. They're gonna buy 150 million ventilators without certificates from a friend of ours. They're gonna buy 10 million bikes from a company where the minister's brother has shares for us so we don't get infected in public transport. The minister's wife's company will sell eco-food to the government for us to be stronger in the fight against the coronavirus. They're gonna be treating themselves in hospitals outside the line for us because they're fighting the coronavirus. The officials will handle the affairs of the members of the PiS first for us, because the PiS fights the coronavirus. PiS activists will be protected by law because they're fighting the coronavirus for us. The judges are gonna put them in prison on merit in the fight against the coronavirus. You're a thug, but you fought, you're innocent, you're innocent, and when you didn't fight the coronavirus, you go to jail. We're not gonna like this, we're gonna go protest. The cops are gonna smack sticks, suffocate, be arrogant, chase us away so we don't get infected, they're gonna do it for us. You're an entrepreneur, the government closed down your store during the pandemic, you wanted to go for compensation, you're not going. Prime Minister Morawiecki applied to the Court of Przyłębska so that the court could not give you compensation. Hulk soul, hell is gone. You can do anything, no one can punish you, no one can do anything, because you're an elite: cops, prosecutors, judges, officials. You say to them, "You are unpunished, you must be faithful, and you will be unpunished." You will be unpunished if you are faithful, you are the chosen ones of the PiS gods. Look at Sasin, look at Szumowski. This bill works backwards. They're okay, they'll be okay, because they're our gods. But until then. No law can protect you. Because the time will come, officials, police officers, prosecutors, judges, I say, the time will come for your dishonesty. If you're dishonest, it's only a matter of time. Political leaders will lose the election sooner or later and you will be denied, and justice will knock on your door. There's already an administrative court ruling that Mr. Morawiecki broke the law by ordering an election, and you're in charge. You'll see how the courts judge you if you don't rule. You'll see how those who are at your service will bite you in the alleys. You'll see that it will. You've made a caste of people who think they're unpunished. It'll come out with your ears. The courts will act, remember that. The left is against this outrageous, idiotic, impunity-free bill to your elites, your people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. I fit in time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u116	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! The place of the bill, which introduces a license for impunity for politicians and party piS officers, is in the basket. Therefore, on behalf of the Coalition Poland club, I also apply for the rejection of this puriozal, harmful bill. [[Applause]] What are Polish doctors, paramedics, nurses, workers and workers of social services homes who have been on the front line of the fight against COVID for months, and who have been subject to increased penalties for medical errors in an anti-crisis shield called 4.0? What should Polish entrepreneurs, who have just been announced by Minister Ziobra, say that the state will be able to preemptively occupy their property, introduce forced management in their companies? Is this supposed to be equal to law and justice in Poland according to the camp of the United Right? What about countering corruption in the Polish Police, in the Polish Army, in the Special Forces or in the Public Prosecutor's Office, where Minister Ziobra's services have not yet arrived? These questions show some dramatic, bizarre picture of our country, which under the rule of the United Right was to be a righteous and developing country. High Izbo! In our opinion, in the opinion of the Polish Coalition Club, it is important to clarify first and foremost who is responsible for what during the fight against and fighting the pandemic. The coordination and development of new control and surveillance procedures should be improved immediately and decisively. Improve documenting decisions. Develop precise criteria for the purchase of medical resources necessary to combat the pandemic. A few months have been wasted in this regard. In our view, controls and audits should also be stepped up, particularly in the area of public procurement and support for the fight against the pandemic and its consequences. Then we can say that the High House has stood up to the task. Today, this bill, I agree with the opinions of the previous speakers, introduces nothing but the guarantee of the impunity of Prime Minister Sasin, Prime Minister Morawiecki and former Minister of Health of Mr Szumowski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u117	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to ask the floor of Mr Grzegorz Braun, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Confederation Circle. Mr Krzysztof Bosak will speak after him.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u118	God bless you! Ladies and gentlemen! The motion to reject this psychic project is obvious. I am glad that the temperature of polemics on the opposition side has increased in recent weeks. I would like to point out that it was the Confederation that made it possible for you to focus your opposition on this project a month ago. That's why this project wasn't re-routed. As a result, it has not been in force for weeks, but the fate of Poland is today. If this project passes, power can do anything. And here I'm going to turn the other way, modestly at the moment filled in this empty room. Dear, dear, even dear Members of the PiS, some of them I have known in my previous life even by name! What are you doing, darlings? What are you doing? Do you really want to go down in history as a reproduction of the legal and systemic patterns of the Weimar Republic and the Third Reich? What else are you gonna get? Yes, there was a coup in the early 20's and then a post factum was promoted in the fight against this coup, the law or the lion taken. Also in the Third Reich it was a good start, it is so beautifully called, Ermächtignungsgesetz, which is to equip the government with non-parliamental prerogatives. Parliamentary. Parlamentary, sir, non-parlamentary. I'm using a thought shortcut. I understand what you're pointing out to me. It's going to be a thought shortcut. The point is, from now on, the government... He has Parliament's authority. ...and the will of the chief was placed above the parliament. This pattern is implemented here. It's not a reductio ad Hitlerum, it's just a sad fact. Don't do it, don't do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u119	We ask Mr Krzysztof Bosak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! Honourable Members! What the PiS is proposing is the destruction of the legal order, the destruction of the legal system and any standards. This raises pandemics, epidemics to the rank of a key event in the legal order of the Republic of Poland, events which can repeal all rights, the whole order of the system and the entire order of duty. We cannot agree to this solution. This is putting the system of law on the head, this is ridiculing the entire legal structure, this is ridiculing legislation, this is a manifest injustice. Here the formula used by the eminent law philosopher Gustav Radbrucha, which belongs to the achievements of the 20th century philosophy of law, namely: Lex iniustissima non est lex, the law is extremely unfair is not the law. What you are proposing is an extremely unfair law, a law which allows any act to be declared unpunished, provided that it has been carried out under an appropriate pretext for power. In the wake of such actions, any authority could raise to the rank of a situation of economic, social, or international life absolving legal liability for abuse of obligations and violation of the law. You can't agree to that. This morning, the government spokesperson developed this philosophy of law that you are proposing, and we know that the President of Law and Justice is interested in the philosophy of law. He was fascinated by this as a student, later as a doctor of law, under the supervision of outstanding Marxists, who then taught the art of law at the University of Warsaw, taught how to twist the cat with a tail. And today we see this very clearly in the practice of your authority. This morning, the government spokesperson developed this by saying that the government's activities during a pandemic are like those of the state during an armed conflict. So maybe we'll soon find out that all the laws and regulations can just repeal some one statement from the government's spokesperson that they just don't apply. We expect this right to be rejected, and if it is passed, that it will be considered as extremely unfair, null and void. We also expect that all those who are guilty of abuses in the form of electoral cards, with the illegal detention of citizens on the so-called. quarantines, as well as the purchase of medical equipment by planted people, will carry [[♪ The bell ♪]] responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u121	Thank you very much. As part of the continuation of the club speech, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u122	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The rule of law and justice began almost five years ago with an outrageous decision by newly elected President Andrzej Duda, who decided to free the justice system from dealing with the case of his party colleagues convicted at first instance for evident violations of the law. We have this creative continuation. The PiS gentlemen are moving very creatively in this direction to exclude from the legal responsibility of their colleagues, state officials, from the recommendations of the PiS performing high state functions. This law, which basically boils down to two articles, including this one outrageous, outrageous one, has been subject to public consultation. Why are you giving public consultation to a project if you're going through these consultations later on when you're treating them like they weren't? And who took the floor on this bill? The following spoke: the Chief Bar Council, negatively assessing this project, the organization of the BCC entrepreneurs, negatively judging it, the OPZZ and the trade union of the Solvency Union, so close to your camp. And what can we read in the opinion of the trade union? In the proposed editorial office, the proposed provision can be read as an incentive to carry out prohibited acts motivated by the fight against COVID-19. That's exactly what it is. This provision (The Bell) will be treated as such and is adopted in order to be an incentive to break the law. Therefore, the coalition club Poland - PSL - Kukiz.15, and the Union of European Democrats, also proposes to reject this scandalous project at first reading. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u123	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I would like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon's question. At the same time, I would like to inform you that it is time for the question to be asked for 1 minute. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm talking about this punishment for COVID, in quotes. Otherwise, I appeal to an elementary sense of decency, to a sense of justice for messengers and Members, and especially for many of these doctors, doctors, nurses. At the beginning of the epidemic, at the 4.0 shield, Minister Ziobro proposed - and the state of the governing coalition agreed - tightening the responsibility, among others. for doctors, nurses, paramedics for COVID-related activities. Many countries then mitigated potential penalties, only in Poland they were tightened up. At the next shield, I attempted to retreat to the pre-emergency state with this record. This was not achieved by the majority either in the Health Committee (The Bell), and then it became an amendment of the club or in the Senate, where we tried with the opposition. At the moment, medical personnel in a situation that can be dramatic, to the detriment of patients, because this is the most important, can - like common criminals - more often have a judgment of deprivation of liberty and the loss of professional rights. This is outrageous. And compare this with what we are discussing at the moment: with responsibility - even a mediocre class - of government officials. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u125	Thank you very much. I have asked for the floor of Mr Mirosław Suchon, but Mr Zdzisław Wolski took advantage of this invitation. My friends pushed me out. But he's good, too. Therefore, I am now asking Mr Mirosław Suchon to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u126	Thank you very much, Marshal. This time it's me personally. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This law, in my opinion, should not be called impunity+, because it is euphemism, and it is very harmful, because it does not say anything about the substance of this hucpa. We have to be clear: this law of calling thieves in government suits for criminal liability for the theft. [[Applause]] He's firing this theft that was committed under disgusting conditions, epidemic conditions, when people were sick, suffering and dying. After all, we've all seen some of these events: masks, ventilators, but reading this project, I'm convinced it's just the tip of the iceberg. The question is, where is the bottom and how big is the mountain. This bill, which guarantees impunity for thieves, is in fact a display of the boots and arrogance of the whole Law and Justice (the Bell) and total disregard not only of the principles of the democratic rule of law, but also of ordinary human integrity and integrity. PiS MEPs themselves acknowledge in their justification that the purpose of this law is to guarantee impunity for criminals. Therefore, Mr Marshal, I would like to ask all those who signed up for this project and the PiS Members who want to vote in favour of this project to whom you are serving. Because it is certainly not the citizens of Poland, the brightest Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u127	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to inform you that I am closing the list of Members who have joined the task of questioning. I still want to report it. I would ask Mr Grzegorz Braun to take this opportunity. And now... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Fellas from the wheel. We're just gonna take a little longer. Now, in order not to waste time, I ask you to ask Mr Stanisław Żuk from the Parliamentary Club coalition Poland. The Member is absent. In that case, I would like to ask Mr Dobromir Sosnier from the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u128	In the next shield you will have to write that everyone with COVID goes straight to heaven, said the poet. And much was not wrong, for in the next shield we are writing down, that at least all officials go straight to heaven, are released, cleansed of all sins of temporality, absolved for wrestling and backwards. I think that the next step will be to include COVID in the Constitution, because I think it has actually become the political principle of the Republic of Poland. Quick question: Did you really fight for this Poland? Do you realize that if the hole in the fence you're pulling right now is big enough, then the whole fence doesn't make any sense at all? And if that's what you really want, then break this fence to the end, write that the official doesn't commit a crime by definition at all, because everything he does, he does for the Republic of Poland, for your sake, for the common good, for the social interest. And let's stop fooling around in the first place, huh? Is that what you really want? You're ruining the law in a completely unbelievable way. Or is this some kind of trolling? If this is a joke, I think it's a joke. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna finish right now. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u129	Thank you very much. The question is now asked by Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u130	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no doubt that such a curial bill should never be proceded in this House, it should never go to the Polish Parliament. You want to ensure impunity and immunity, in fact, you want to legalize breaking the law, and you're not even hiding it. In addition to the draft law, it is also worth quoting the justification in which it is written: It leaves no doubt that the proposed provision will apply to acts committed before the entry into force of the law. Therefore, I have submitted to the President, who has escaped at the moment, a formal motion to stop the proceedings on this bill at the last sitting of the committee, to call on the Attorney General to tell us exactly what proceedings are taking place today at the prosecutor's office, and you want to annul what cases you want to win before a Polish court led by a judge who knows or does not know [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr. Zbigniew Ziebra. Because open your cards and show the real Poles whose friends you want to protect. This law should never go to the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u131	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u132	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. President, you're not here! Mr. President, I would like to kindly inform you, in accordance with the PiS customs, that this bill is not necessary for anyone. Your men are lying to you. It is already called by Poles: impunity+ and it is becoming more and more associated with you, Mr President. There are already laws exempting from criminal liability all those who may have committed a crime in the fight against COVID, this is the Act of 31 March this year. You want to give another release guaranteeing another impunity. Mr. President, why do you need this bill? In this connection, I would like to ask you what crimes have been committed by the nominators of Law and Justice, and what else do you have to account for, that despite previous regulations, you have been persuaded to reconsider this case (the bell) and create another fuse that duplicates previous records. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u133	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u134	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a famous art. 10d is a purely demoralization of Polish government officials. And it bothers the more that you introduce it at the same time, when you increase the penalties for possible medical errors for Polish doctors who in fact stand on the first line of the fight against the coronavirus. [[Applause]] I have a very specific question about the interpretation of this provision. Please respond in writing. I ask them to the creators of the bill and to the Minister of Justice and the Prosecutor General, Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. Does the law on the impunity of officials also cover the case of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who, according to the decision of the provincial administrative court, issued a decision without justification and with gross violation of the law? [[Applause]] As a consequence of this judgment, does this provision also include Deputy Prime Minister Jacek Sasin and former Minister of Health of Mr Szumowski? [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are the fundamental questions I would like to get an answer to today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u135	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the first time in the history of democratic states, power grants itself immunity backwards, absolute immunity, which allows itself to be enslaved on almost every crime. It is a signal to every dishonest person in Poland that power, which does exactly the same, is no different, but that it is simply unpunished. You are adopting laws on the impunity of government-based PiS activists in the Treasury companies. The point of intent is so broad that it is enough to say: I wanted to fight COVID. No matter what the consequences are. The state extends the impunity of public authority. This was not in the history of our country both in the space of art. 231 The Penal Code, which explicitly speaks of abuse of power and art. 266 The Penal Code on Action to the Damage of Business Entities. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To put it bluntly, the State of Law and Justice can't protect you. Sooner or later, law and justice will come for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u137	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the question of Mr Jakub Kulesza, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u138	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address the Members who will vote on this bill: Do you want to be remembered as politicians or as scoundrels who put their hand in approving this lawlessness? How else can you call this bill? That's a scoundrel. [[Applause]] This is turning you upside down. This is turning the rule of law upside down. This is turning justice upside down. I will not mention the name of the groups that you represent, but this name should give you some thought. Some rules must apply, responsibility must be borne, the law cannot act backwards. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u139	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Law and Justice criminals have come up with the idea of praising themselves, using a parliamentary majority, with laws that will allow them to ensure impunity despite the crimes they have committed. If it wasn't, this bill in this version wouldn't have been here. I wonder and ask: Where is the Attorney General of Zbigniew Ziobro? Where's Minister Kaminski? Why did they show inaction for months and not catch thieves stealing from Poland? Over the past few weeks and months, public opinion has been attacked by facts about crimes committed. Why aren't you responding? There will come a time when law and justice will come for you, and a place for you will be converted from government jobs to prison. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u141	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Karolina Pavliczak, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is a project that guarantees impunity for crimes committed to combat pandemics. This project is outrageous. It's a license for impunity, impunity for elites. This is a bomb that will explode, infecting and soiling our public life with further cases of corruption, abuse of official and political power. I understand that for useless masks, non-existent respirators, the mail-order issue, the printout of voting cards, no one will be held responsible. Politicians and party officers are to continue to be licensed for impunity. I'm asking for information on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u143	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In our civilization there are two main legal systems: Roman law and custom law, or common law. As far as both legal systems are concerned, the principle of retro non agit, i.e. the law, does not work backwards, is mandatory in criminal law. But a new legal system appeared in the Republic of Poland: the Law and Justice system. And this legal system, where lawlessness and crime and lawlessness and impunity are to work backwards, is a world-wide puriazum. Such a legal system has not yet been invented before the Law and Justice. What is the purpose of this bill? We read about it in the explanatory memorandum. Because it will make it possible to disable unlawfulness and, consequently, criminality. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, it is easiest to disable crime by not committing a crime that this law encourages - not only forwards but also backwards. The law, the name of which refers to specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and fight against COVID-19, does not, for example, deal with: carrying out mass tests. In the French Republic, a million tests are in force within one week. Millions of tests We haven't done it in the last few months. This law, on the other hand, is a de facto legalisation of lawlessness. Does Law and Justice want to introduce a party-mafia state instead of a righteous and just one? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u145	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u146	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The day of 16 September 2020 will be remembered in history, because it is a day after which not only five years of rule of law and justice will pass, but also a day somewhat peaking and crowning career of Jarosław Kaczyński. Yes, this Jarosław Kaczyński, who promised a new country, a country of principles, a state of transparency, a state free of corruption, a country free of guys, and built a banana republic, builds a banana republic in which after 30 years the party again means more than the state. This party is the mechanism that it manages, the party within its internal, often gangster settlements determines what is happening in Poland, and this party relieves its bandits who commit crimes from responsibility. Not like this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is not the fourth Republic that the Poles voted for, which Jarosław Kaczyński unfortunately stole from his right hand. But it's coming to an end. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u147	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u148	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! Power is to operate within the limits of the law. I'm not surprised that there's no one here, because you want the boundaries of the law to replace the boundaries of lawlessness right now. This is a common amnesty for all government criminals. Yesterday's judgment concerning Prime Minister Morawiecki, who found him guilty of breaking the law, in fact, I have the impression that he has speeded up the work on this bill. Power is an honor, but it's also a responsibility. You want power, honors, profits, money in family companies, but you don't want responsibility. You want impunity for corruption, impunity for mismanagement, impunity for the Prime Minister for decisions taken without law. Citizens are to be held responsible for their actions, but the PiS caste is to be excluded from this responsibility, to be simply unpunished. And this lawlessness is supposed to go backwards. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question: "Is there going to be a change in the constitution that deletes the statement that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state and that it is anarchy?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u149	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mrs Wanda Nowicka to ask us a question. Come on in. Wait a minute, Marshal. We haven't turned on the stopwatch yet. I see that my fellow Members support the Member here. Morally. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u150	I'm so sorry, Marshal. It's OK. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The PiS-owska special act introducing impunity for officials is a symbol of the disgrace of the power of the PiS. It is also the first step towards the introduction of total impunity, which is dreaming of President Kaczyński, for himself and his people. In the project there is a vague concept of social interest, but in practice it will be a sealed protective umbrella, not to say: anti-missile shield, for people close to power. The Act, if it comes into force, will first protect Minister Szumowski from the consequences of the masseque affair, Minister Sasin, Prime Minister Morawiecki, and then others. Who else wants to hide under that shield? From now on, a loose pretext is enough to legitimize any illegal activity of people associated with the PiS. Why don't we eliminate the Penal Code at all? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The rule that he doesn't commit a crime, who in the public interest will commit murder or robbery? What about the social interest? This one will always be found to protect his relatives and acquaintances of PiS power. Don't go that way, gentlemen of the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u151	Thank you very much. I don't see Jack Protasiewicz in the O.R. Then I ask you to ask Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u152	Curious thing is, none of you are defending this project. There is a total opposition after you, and there are no voices that would explain to the Poles what you need this bill for. The explanation is therefore very clear: On your side, the awareness of the criminal nature of your activities undertaken under the pretext of fighting a pandemic must be quite common, quite well established and, in short, you are clearly alerted to the situation, therefore you need carte blanche or... It'll be in German soon. ...the act of instigating your future crimes. Because let's note: If you could afford to direct the police so far (the bell), the inspectors to these actions derogating the honor of the state services, if you could afford to use the administration to abuse the law, then what are you preparing for when impunity+ is so urgently needed? That's the question I'm asking, not expecting an honest answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u153	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u154	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have no doubt that ensuring the impunity of the official is an important issue for the whole good change. I definitely understand that. However, the impunity of officials should not apply to theft only during a pandemic, because this one will end someday. This law should cover the entire period of your reign. Moreover, the law should not be limited to officials themselves. Do not forget your family, your brothers, your sisters, your wives. They want to steal, too, and they want to stay unpunished. What about your assistants, your coaches, your instructors, and all that octopus that's been stealing your national assets for the last five years? You want them to give it back? Or what? Because today you can't, there's no proper regulation? Definitely this bill is to be improved. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u155	Thank you. The question will be asked by Robert Obaz, the Left. There isn't. In that case, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u156	Honourable Members! Mr. Marshal! Farmers and breeders protest before the Sejm today. There is an attack on Polish agriculture, an attack on Polish farms. We have a law proposed that will affect not only the breeding of fur animals, but the breeding of all sectors, including fishing. This is, of course, linked to the need to dispose of waste and also to the export of meat from religious slaughter. Those Members who have just voted to reject the proposal to take a break at the Sejm do not even want to go out and talk. Only a few members of the PSL and members of the Confederation came forward. I'm sorry, it's not true, the coalition isn't. I would like to encourage all Members... Very well if there are other Members in the opposition. I would like to encourage all Members to come to the debate so that you can go to the farmers and listen to their arguments. Everyone has the right to vote as they see fit. On the other hand, I beg you to hear the testimony of those people who live from breeding and live from agriculture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u157	Thank you. The question will be asked by Maria Małgorzata Janyska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the Members of the applicants because they gave the face to this criminal act: What kind of authority is it that legalizes crimes of public officials? What is this power that creates the conditions to exceed the discipline of public finances? Because it is not true what is stated in the explanatory memorandum that the project does not affect the public finance sector. The project will create opportunities for corruption and waste of resources. What kind of power is it that interferes with business? Because it is not true again what is stated in the justification that the project does not affect the business activity. It affects because it distorts the principles of competitiveness, impartiality and objectivity, transparency and equal treatment in the allocation of money to public procurement. And honourable Members of the applicant, last question: who are these Members who open the way to the possibility of committing crimes? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Here is the list of these Members. It is a few dozen people. They're not in the O.R. today. Because you know that you signed nonsense, just as it's bullshit to justify this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u159	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Those who are watching us, let them see: such an important bill, and there are only three or four people on this side of the room, they can be counted on the fingers of one hand. The rest are ashamed. I think this is a scandal when we require employees of other sectors of the economy to work in shops. I don't know if the paramedics went to work. I got a lot of calls, hundreds of e-mails about this bill. It cannot be that the officers of the governing party are each time, I stress, each time unpunished, untouchable, when, in the light of Polish law, the ordinary, gray citizen for the same actions will bear criminal responsibility before the justice system. I am firmly speaking against this law and will vote against it. I will not disappoint my constituents from the Podlaskie Voivodeship. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u161	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Michał Urbaniak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u162	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In fact, it is a pity that many Members of the Law and Justice are not here with us, but, well, let it just go on. I have such a question to ask myself here clearly: Has anyone who will vote on this law today and who will support the changes in this law wondered about his morality and our public life? The morality of public life is being overturned, i.e. it is allowed for state officials, ministers, Members or - it can be dragged forward - e.g. employees of State Treasury companies broke the law and changed various topics into completely criminal issues. Will they all be able to look themselves in the eye in the future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u163	Thank you. I ask Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, if she is present in the Chamber. If not, the question will be asked by Monika Pawłowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u164	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Law and Justice has tried for the fourth or fifth time on the pretext of fighting the pandemic of Coronavirus to include in the COVID law further solutions which have nothing to do with the coravirus or health protection. They have nothing to do with the improvement of salaries in the budget or the promised increase in the minimum wage up to 3,000. zł, they have a lot to do with protecting jobs, but unfortunately only jobs of colleagues from the governing party. And only they will be unpunished and untouchable. I expect the government's reconstruction will go very smoothly now. My question is: How many such mini-corrections, how many more shields will you adopt - even with a special dedication to Minister Sasin - so that millions more can be transferred under the control of the Ministry of State Assets (The Bell) or in the hands of trusted people of President Kaczyński to weaken the coalitioners supposedly from the United Right? Mr. Marshal, just a moment. My second question, much more fundamental: Do you realize that each and every one of you, even though you are about to pass this criminal law on impunity, after the end of the period and the legislation on epidemics will cease to be covered by this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u165	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u166	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, To the Members who prepared this idea, I would like to dedicate the golden thought to Stanisław Jerzy Lec, who says that the executioner appears in the mask of justice. You're trying to speak up and establish a new canon of justice. Crime doesn't happen to anyone who belongs to the PiS. Whoever takes someone else's property and belongs to the PiS doesn't commit a crime. It's a new article. It is not true, as the rapporteur said, who is not in this Chamber, that he was supported by the committee. Be precise. On this committee, the members of the PiS supported this proposal. [[Applause]] And only PiS. And only you will account for it. We don't have our permission to commit a PiS crime. There's no way we're gonna let crime go unpunished. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're not going to be a protective umbrella for you. All honest, decent, honorable people will vote against the civil servant's impunity bill. Don't break... This is a disgrace to the Polish parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u167	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Anita Sowińska, club Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u168	This bill is an absolute scandal. This is legalization. Mafia actions, this is the COVID scandal. This project allows you to steal public property, buy things without tenders, at overpriced prices and from your guys, for our public money. I'm not just talking about respirators and masks, I'm talking about everything, because you're able to justify buying everything you need to fight COVID - it's even about development services, construction without building permits, in the huts of national parks, anywhere. In all of these COVID laws, you're only after one thing, to enslave yourself to public money, to our money. It's just stealing! And you are Christians? Seventh: don't steal. Don't steal. Don't steal! Don't steal! This is a parliamentary project. So I have questions for project applicants: Who is the inspiration for this provision? Whose commission was it written on? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm asking you to name these people and name them. I suggest you do this for your own good, because this recipe is supposed to cover criminals, so you'll be co-responsible for these crimes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u169	The question will be asked by Arkadiusz Carrot, the Civic Coalition. He's not in the O.R. So, Mr Maciej Kopeć, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go. A mound. He's coming. Excuse me, Mound.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u170	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Applicants' Members! I would like to ask you what can be called righteous and just, while at the same time guaranteeing yourself and your colleagues impunity and standing above the law. How can we at the same time ridicule once again the faithful party of the President, who, after all, still has the right to favor in justified cases? You are trying under the cover of a pandemic that destroys people's lives, introduces a paramaphic structure in this House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u171	Thank you very much. I now ask you to ask Mr Dariusz Ionski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u172	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I know why PiS proposed impunity for officials in April. I know why today he's expanding this umbrella for the next acts of PiS politicians and officials. I know, because Mr Szczerba and I have seen what's been going on at the Ministry of Health for the last three months. I ask today: Where is the Minister of Health? Where's the Deputy Minister of Health? Those of you who told me there'd be respirators, there'd be masks, there'd be visors, there'd be tests. 70 million PLN is missing. Someone stole that money. That's not good enough. The one he stole sells masks to the Treasury company. It's okay for this robbery to continue. This bill and the extension of this bill is an amnesty for thieves. And I have to say one thing: only a thief, only a criminal could come up with such a recipe, because only in the interests of a thief was it to write such a sharp recipe giving an umbrella for thieves. And unfortunately, the authors are politicians of Law and Justice. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is no Minister Ziobra here to speak on this matter. Everyone's gone. But, of course, the Members of the PiS can move on. I propose such a provision - because there have already been various proposals here, I have one - art. 31 § 1
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u173	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the applicants! Dear Mr Cymanski, I know it is difficult for you to listen to Members of the opposition. I know you almost don't listen to them, okay, but I will allow myself not to be the voice of just an opposition member, but I will quote those who still have hope and write to us parliamentarians. Ms Agnieszka writes, Mr Cymanski: This project is outrageous. It's harmful to society as a whole. I know you're sensitive. This draft law aims at repealing the rule of law in force and excluding public officials from criminal liability. As a result, this law allows the impunity of officials at the time of the offence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This also applies to your families and children. We do not agree to break our constitutional rights, which our ancestors have fought for so much. I call on you to oppose this criminal act, not take away the rest of your dignity and freedom. I am convinced that you will also examine this with some of the applicants until the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u175	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u176	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! See how wonderfully it is: yesterday, the judgment of the provincial administrative court, which states that the Prime Minister acted with a gross violation of the law. And today? Already, by the way, the Sejm deals with a law that puts the same prime minister above the law and gives him the chance to bear no consequences. Irregularity. Unrighteousness is a characteristic of your authority. Unrighteousness changed by all cases. Because that's what PiS politicians want most about, so that they and their colleagues will not be punished completely. Let's be more specific. This law is not about the so-called broad crowds. ordinary officials who, somewhere in the county, made a mistake in the time of the outbreak. This law concerns the impunity of the most important key people in the government of PiS. This bill concerns the head of this PiS octopus, which covers Poland. [[Applause]] And that's why I have a question for the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, tell me who - if you don't (BELL RINGING) And your government buddies will answer, will they pay for the money that's been thrown into the mud on the bad masks, the bad choices, the bad ventilators? Who will suffer the consequences? We've got the guilty, we've got the verdict of a flagrant violation of the law. So? No one's gonna be held responsible? [[Applause]] Bravo.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u177	I would like to ask Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u178	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill on COVID was named by the public: a project of impunity+, which we all agree with here. You say that you listen to the voice of the people, so I will quote to you this voice: I appeal, this project is scandalous and harmful to the general public. Another voice: The project threatens the sovereignty of our country and justifies all lawlessness. Another vote: The Act gives rise to space for any abuse. And so on, and so on. We all got hundreds of votes - you too, by e-mail, by phone. We're used to you not listening to the voice of society, but that doesn't mean that citizens don't know that in a project to save people's health and lives, you save your own skin. Because such a scale of abuse in this country and such a scandal has never been. Never, ladies and gentlemen. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You want to make a bill that gives you permission to break the law, which says that the thief is not a thief, as it was said here, the scandalist is not a scandalist. Why? Is this the kind of Poland you fought for? Did we fight? Our fathers, our grandparents? Is that how you want to go down in history? Really, it's outrageous, it's not right. Don't go that way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u179	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u180	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Members of the Law and Justice! Your disgusting and curiosity proposal of impunity will go down to the history of lawlessness. It's going to be a history of lawlessness. You have beaten the standards repeatedly mentioned here, from this speaker of the banana republics. Yesterday, the Provincial Administrative Court in Warsaw decided that Prime Minister Morawiecki committed a crime, broke the law. Tomorrow you'll vote to free him of responsibility. Tomorrow you will vote and free anyone who commits a crime and says that he had good intentions that he meant well. So I propose that you amend this provision, which today is your proposal: There is no crime committed by anyone who violates professional obligations or applicable rules in order to counter the COVID. Write straight: He who has the legitimacy of the Law and Justice or is related to him does not commit a crime. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u181	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today in the Polish Parliament, the governing party proposes a shocking project in its own interest, so-called. impunity+. Everyone protests, people e-mail Members, they're outraged. Meanwhile, there are only a few Members of the PiS in the plenary room. Where are the applicants? Why aren't they defending this fantastic project? Maybe they're ashamed? There's still time to get out of this. So, Taddy, aren't you ashamed? Aren't you ashamed, Tadeusz? Why it was allowed to proceed on such a scandalous project that devastates the Polish constitution, which ruins the legal order, introducing for the chosen ones - I stress - for selected lawlessness... That's how ideals fall. But that's the thing. ...who introduces impunity for his... What does Mr Cymanski say? I'll vote, but I won't be happy. ...who introduces a broad amnesty for members [[♪ The bell ♪]] And PiS sympathizers? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u183	I ask you to ask Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u184	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a shame I can't turn to the government because none of the ministers had the courage to come and discuss this shameful record with us. Ladies and gentlemen, under the COVID-19 control coat, the government wants to press a rule: It does not commit a crime, who violates duty or applicable legislation to counter COVID-19. Ladies and gentlemen! It's unthinkable. This leads to lawlessness. This point in the act is border crossing, dangerous precedent in the Republic of Poland and in Europe. No situation shall justify such measures. It's impunity plus, which is a protective umbrella for thieves. It's not a shield protecting against COVID-19, it's a shield protecting PiS activists from criminal liability. (BELL RINGING) And that lawlessness has yet to work backwards. Where are those 70 million zlotys spent on May envelopes? Where's 200 million zlotys spent on ventilators that aren't there? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u185	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mirosław Nykiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The law on civil impunity is the quintessence of your thinking about the interests of the Polish state. It is a complete submission of interests of Poland to the interests of one party, a criminal party. You prove it yourself, writing in a statement that you want to disable unlawfulness and, consequently, crime, a violation of your duties. You have already subjected one party to public media, KRS, a company of the Treasury. You have an influence on the president's decisions, which pardons your fellow men who have been convicted even before he's legalized. What else are you missing? You're running out of impunity, and this project you want to do. The fact that the bill is bad is already known by your so-called Members. a broad coalition. They announced that they would vote against. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You still have time to withdraw from this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u187	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Ardanowski, Terlecki, Suski, Tchórzewski are among others. Members who want to introduce, or rather legalise, crime in Poland. Not all of them, of course. The only criminals in the PiS are gonna be unpunished. The VAT mafia that cooperates with the PiS nominates, including those from the Ministry of Finance, will be unpunished. Explain to the Poles why the law that talks about crime is being prosecuted at the meeting of the finance committee? After all, you admit that this is about millions, perhaps billions, which the government of PiS and PiS nominates have already stolen from Polish taxpayers, and about millions, and perhaps billions that you want to steal under the cloak of the fight against COVID. How embarrassing are you? That is why there is no Ardanowski (The Bell), Tchórzewski, Suski and others. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u189	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Jakub Rutnicki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's no one from Law and Justice. What's the bill about? Ladies and gentlemen, this is the law on impunity, this is a law that is clear: the PiS thief is not a thief. Let us remember this when we are once Members of the Law and Justice to account for all this. You legitimize breaking the law. You're legitimizing all the criminal procedures that have been going on lately. Szumowski - unpaid or transferred 200 million. Who? It wasn't a state of higher necessity. If this were a state of higher necessity, you'd be talking to the producers. You talked to the arms dealer to get that money in his account as soon as possible. And there are no ventilators. For the first time in history, the government and the PiS want to legalize the violation of the law in our country. This is amazing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen, it's worth remembering. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u191	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The basic principles of the rule of law are that the citizen is allowed to do everything that is not prohibited, and the official and public administration are allowed to do everything that belongs to his or her competence. You are proposing today a provision for which the standard will be that in principle an official can do anything. He's not committing a crime, which is what? Embezzlement, corruption, unlawful imprisonment. What crime? Aren't you really afraid that your power will pass? And it will pass, every power in this world passes. Aren't you afraid of setting dangerous precedents? I ask you to calm down and reflect, although looking at the interest and lack of government and the majority of Parliament, I fear that these hopes are burning. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u193	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Alexander Mishalski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I quote once again: He does not commit a crime, who, in order to counter COVID-19, violates duty or applicable rules if he is acting in the interests of society. Are you really so brazen that, in order to gain your own impunity, you want to introduce a rule that people will not be held responsible for crimes if they show a counter-COVID? Do you want the police to beat someone up because they don't have a mask? Do you want someone to cross the speed limit because they're carrying, for example. Is it medication or she says so? Do you want an official to accept a bribe because he wanted to buy medical supplies quickly? Yesterday the court ruled that Prime Minister Sasin spent 70 million PLN on illegal elections on the basis of the decision of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who had no legal basis and grossly violated the applicable law. Tell me straight: you want Morawiecki, Sasin, Szumowski, your whole Olsen gang to be unpunished. So take the rule that the PiS members are not responsible for anything, and do not expose the entire society to massive damage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] caused by this irresponsibleness of yours. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u195	Thank you very much. I would ask you to ask Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u196	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicants what is the real purpose of correcting this speciality. Content of the Article 10d added by the PiS Members to the Act contains only very general, vague information, without indicating any concrete actions. According to many law experts in the Penal Code, there are well-thought-out provisions, which have been developed over the years, including those that allow the release from criminal liability of a person who, acting in the overriding interest of society, even violates his duty as a public servant. Inclusion in the Art. Act. 10d will highly liberalize the current legislation. Some also add that this solution may be contrary to the provisions of the Constitution. Instead of improving the law, it will bring chaos. Or maybe it's just that under the pretext of fighting COVID-19 (the bell) the state could whiten up. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question of what is the real purpose of correcting this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u197	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There hasn't been such a thing in this House before. Under the pretext of fighting the coronavirus, you are attempting to introduce scandalous laws abolishing the responsibility of officials for actions committed during the pandemic. This solution is contrary not only to the provisions of the Constitution, in particular to the Article. 7, which states that public authorities operate on the basis and limits of law, but also with fundamental principles of decency. Is not the action of legalising illegal activities of public authorities a response to reports of irregularities in ministries? You're trying to protect Sasin and Szumowski at all costs. The Act does not like Poles who say explicitly that the exclusion of criminal liability for all crimes [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's an abuse. How embarrassing are you? Get out of this project while you still can. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u199	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the sake of its comfort and impunity, Law and Justice does not notice, is not interested in groups that have been badly harmed because of the pandemic. Of many, I would like to remind you of artists and artists. This law introduced in March, for the duration of the pandemic, the withholding of fees to collecting societies for the management of copyrights and related rights from traders who are users of works and related rights. There's an opportunity to talk about it. After the economy has been thawed, including after the opening of catering and entertainment activities, this provision continues to apply, depriving many creators and artists of their remuneration for playing music at the premises. Instead of protecting yours, ladies and gentlemen, start fixing your mistakes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u201	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, the Civic Coalition. If there isn't, then... There it is, there it is. I'm sorry. I am, Mr. Marshal, running a lively step. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an outrageous bill. This is ruining the country. This is a license for impunity. This is legalization of lawlessness. I wonder what other issues we don't know about, but in the various ministries they know that these issues are that the PiS decides to do such a bill. Today, the government benches are empty. Why? Because individual ministers are ashamed to listen to what is said. The fact that there are so few members of the PiS today, which can be counted on the fingers of one hand, is also a great shame. I wonder how Members of the PiS will vote today, because sooner or later it will be necessary to tell not only their constituents, but also one day to their children or grandchildren why I behaved in this way. And the worst thing is, we've seen a time when the party's interests, in this case the interests of the PiS party, are more important than the interests of the state and the interests of the nation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a total scandal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u203	Thank you. The question will be asked by Mr Michael Szczerba, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u204	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project should not be called impunity. This project should be called impudence. Human decency has long ceased to exist on this side of the room. Years ago, the ideologist at the PC camp said: If we accepted purely moral assumptions, we would never have anything. Today, you are introducing this criminal attitude into legal acts. Virtual ventilators, disappearing millions are known by the whole of Poland. But today, with Mr Dariusz Ionski, we have revealed another matter. Half a million antigen tests from Korea - not worth a pound of weasel. [[Applause]] But you paid $15 million for it. Disgraceful. After 5 months, you quickly push these tests out of the S.R.S. and the emergency rooms. No one should use them because their effectiveness is almost zero. There should not be such situations or situations, [[♪ The bell ♪]] or that, according to the condition of yesterday for 5 months, this medical device has not been registered at the registration office of medicinal products. It's outrageous. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u205	The question will be asked by Mr Sławomir Nitras, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u206	You will mention my words. It's a vote - if it happens and it's a fact that you voted out, you accepted it because it's hard to call it law - it's going to become the mother of thousands of scandals in Poland. Your leaders are having trouble with the law. Mr. Kaczyński should be prosecuted for two towers, Mr. Kaminski, Mr. Morawiecki, Mr. Sasin - for lawlessness, said this court, a crime against elections, an attempt to organize illegal elections, and Mr. Ziobro - for using European money for party purposes, which is forbidden. They all have problems with the law. Today, you are using COVID to make them unpunished so that their guilt is decided not by the courts, but by you politicians. And I will tell you this: you, all the politicians of PiS, who will raise your hand to this day, will be judged by Art. 258 of the Penal Code, because you are an organized criminal group that rapes the Sejm to make yourself unpunished. You'll mark my words. This is gonna be the mother of the scandal, and you're all gonna be responsible for this in court. God is my witness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u207	Thank you. I would ask you to ask Mr Darius Rosati, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u208	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This law, which is being proposed somewhere there, can be summed up in one sentence: It is a law that is supposed to allow for impunity in breaking the law. There is no country in the world in which such a provision would be introduced, not even in the worst dictatorships. You can award yourselves a prize for beating the Guinness record on this case, because there is really no country in the world where such solutions would be introduced. I have a question for the applicant. Why isn't anybody from the government here? Why is the government ashamed not only to sign this law, but even to participate in the discussion? Why did you let yourself be persuaded by putting your faces and reputations at risk to company such outrageous legislation? How can you look your constituents in the eye when you sign something like this? This is absolutely the most important issue, because it shows what moral fall came to law and justice after 5 years of rule. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u209	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u210	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm not gonna pretend I'm talking to people who aren't here in the O.R. They're just not in the O.R. I prefer to speak to those who are present. Ha, ha, ha! Ladies and gentlemen, what happened to them, how did they come up with such a hell of an idea? Where's the pattern? I know where the pattern is. Because PiS envied Polish bishops, envied the impunity of priests who raped children. This is the pattern that was transferred from the church, from the action of bishops in mitras, who are indifferent to the moral drama that takes place in their ranks, to the mechanisms of the state. That's an exaggeration. This is a one-to-one copy. This is the end of the alliance of moralists, or actually pseudo-moralists and hypocrites. This is the end of a republic that cannot draw clear boundaries between what is sacrum and what is profanum, between state and church At the end church customs enter the state. You have proof of that now. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u211	The question will be asked by Wojciech the King, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The paradox is that the Law and Justice, which in the name of its party contains these beautiful words, presented the law on lawlessness and injustice. And at this point we have to ask the question: What direction is Poland heading in? Law and Justice is created by a mafia state, a state without punishment, a state where public officials, of course, provided they are members of a party of law and justice, will always be unpunished. Come to your senses. Don't create criminal law. Get rid of that criminal and mafia bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u213	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Mr Mateusz Bochenk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Polish Sejm rather than proceding the rules on aid to entrepreneurs, aid for local governments who are fighting against the pandemic of Coronavirus, which add millions of zlotys so that we can function fairly well instead of helping hospitals, today, under the cloak of the fight against the pandemic of Coronavirus, it lays down rules on impunity. This is the height of hypocrisy. In principle, the Chamber's party should be ashamed that such a provision is being put under discussion at all. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are trying to legalize activities such as the illegal organisation of elections, such as the purchase without the basis of equipment from a former arms dealer or (the bell), as we find out, also the purchase of worthless tests. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we want to introduce laws that introduce impunity and give freedom of action to Prime Minister Morawiecki, Prime Minister Sasin, Minister Szumowski and all those who have the party legitimacy of Law and Justice or any of the coalitioners. It's a shame. This can't be right. So often you repeat and refer to the sovereign. Maybe it's time to listen to the Sovereign's voice, who says clearly and clearly: there is no agreement to such methods. There's no law against lawlessness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u215	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am in a difficult situation because I wanted to ask the Members of the Commission whether they are ashamed or not. But I can see the answer. Only Mrs Milczanowska is on the list of 47 names in the courtroom. But we know here that, during the parliamentary work, the Member is able to give her face to any wickedness written in the draft laws. How I love you, sir. I would like to ask you how not ashamed you are because we already ask that you are referring to a state of higher necessity, an epidemic, to sick Poles, to dying Poles, and under this pretext you are introducing a provision acquittaling officials and politicians. And in the same bill, a few months earlier, you tightened up the doctor's criminal laws, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for doctors, for those who really fight this COVID on the front line. How embarrassing are you? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u217	Thank you very much. Can you correct it? Mr President, the list of people who have been asked has been closed, but in a unique way we make available to you these 60 seconds as time for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u218	30's enough for me. I would like to point out that it is the PiS that is referring to the will of the people, that it has the majority behind it. We're here to fight for the law. The law says it can't work backwards, not what most people say. Because it is the PiS that is democratic, the PiS is referring to the will of the sovereign, and we are referring to the law. The law can't work backwards, that's all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u219	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, here's the situation. Government benches are empty. [[Applause]] So why don't we give the government a chance and announce a few minutes' break. Maybe somebody's gonna make it. I'm sorry, but I'm an applicant, Mr. Marshal. May I? But the government could say... The marshal's in charge. Madam President, it is customary that at such important points there has always been a government position, so we are wondering if it can give a chance, maybe someone will come. I see. Unless you know that no one in the government will come forward. I don't know. It's better to stop. They're already using the rules. They're getting ready. We understand that we will not see the representative of the government, so we ask the representative of the applicants from Anna Milczanowska... I wanted to answer some questions. ...to answer the questions asked earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In response to the questions and positions of both clubs and individual Members, I explain. Let me put it this way, because I wrote some things. Maybe I won't keep it that way. Not every violation is a crime or a misdemeanor. In criminal law, a counter-attack institution is generally accepted. That's what we all know. The countertype causes that conduct fulfilling the marks of a prohibited act is still a prohibited act, but it is not a crime. In other words, he repeals the criminal lawlessness of the act. The countertype set out in criminal law does not have to abolish the unlawful conduct in other branches of the law. The countertype will be regulated by law, statutory rank. Without these changes, it will be possible to criminalize people, public officials, whom we have heard so much about today. I would like to say to you Members, the High House, that we have a few thousand public officials in our country - I think we are all aware of that - who have violated their obligations to combat COVID-19 even when, in fact, neither the public nor the private interests have suffered any damage under the Article. K. 231 K.K. This is an ineffective crime, and it is not necessary for any damage to legitimate property to occur. This is a statement by Prof. Zoll of 1999, published by p. 782. What does that have to do with anything? It is enough that there is a threat of such damage, and this threat is abstract. It does not include persons who, by breaking the law, wanted to gain a property or personal benefit. I repeat: the provision proposed by us does not include those who, by breaking the law, wanted to gain a property or personal benefit. Today, my clubmate, Mr Andrzej Costowniak, tabled an amendment. And in the justification for this amendment, it is stated that its aim is to clarify the provisions which are to narrow down the scope of the cases in which this regulation would apply. The amendment introduces, in particular, the principle of proportionality of goods, which in practice means that the action of the provision will not be covered inter alia. actions in which the perpetrator acted in order to achieve a material advantage. The bill... Thus, in order for the court to be able to apply the provision, the damage caused must not be aimed at achieving a property or personal advantage. Corruption action, particularly in the fight for human health and life, must always be met with all the severity and firmness of the justice system. The Act allows the use of counter-attribution, among others. to doctors performing administrative functions, and we know that many doctors perform managerial, managerial functions in health establishments that have exceeded their powers have committed an offence under Article. 231 or Art. 96 of the Penal Code to protect against COVID-19, and who did so not for the purpose of achieving a wealth or personal benefit, but for the protection of human health and life. Wait a minute. It's a scandal at all. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Anything on the mafia? Mr Braun said... But, Member, let the Member of the applicant... If you'd all just... I have listened to you all in peace and quiet, with great culture, you will admit. Mr Braun spoke, referring to the 1933 authorising act, formally entitled "Gesetz zur Behebung der'. Not von Volk und Reich, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which is the law that gave the German cabinet and, as a result, the Chancellor, the power to adopt rights without the participation of Reichstag and to overwrite the fundamental aspects of the Weimar Constitution. Mrs Nowicka spoke about life, about protection of life. The protection of life, ladies and gentlemen, is the basis for the functioning of society and the violation of this principle cannot be reconciled with the interests of society. The COVID Pandemic and its dynamic development make it often necessary to carry out non-standard measures in order to combat it effectively. The decision-making process in the fight against the virus must take place quickly. It is not always possible to reconcile the social interest in the form of an effective fight against the epidemic with the faithful observance of duty or legislation. And in any event, law enforcement authorities will analyse the existence of grounds for excluding criminal liability in a specific factual situation. But that's what the president's pardon is for. So, ladies and gentlemen, much of what happened here today is absolutely not written in the bill, which was filed on 14 August this year and on which it was processed. The first reading took place at the meeting of the finance committee, and today an amendment was tabled to this proposal, which I have allowed myself to read to you Members, the High House. I wouldn't want you to accuse me that easily. There have been dozens of words here that call us thieves, crooks, lawbreakers. The full law is applied precisely in this provision, which has been tabled today in the form of an amendment. And no one who violates the law in order to gain a private, wealthy advantage will be unpunished. What about wealth management? Everyone will be subject to law enforcement in the same way. We are talking about the distinction between goods, Mrs Czestowniak, and these goods were spoken by Andrzej Czestowniak, who presented his position a few dozen minutes ago. Thank you very much. But that is why the President is pardoned, not breaking the fundamentals of the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u221	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, a motion for rejection and amendments was submitted to the draft law, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the draft law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations (Prints No 133 and 533). I ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u222	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if there's anyone on the government bench because I can't see. Well, just like the last wind hula. The government takes care of itself, doesn't care to talk to Members of Parliament. I understand he has many problems of his own, even with the law on impunity. But what I wanted to say was to present a report, which is in print 533. This concerns a proposal to amend the law on inheritance tax and donations. It is with great pleasure, as rapporteur, that I would like to inform the High House, that the project submitted by the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, had a happy finale of the procession in Parliament. In 2019, a year and a half ago, in that term, we submitted a project that spoke about supplementing the 2006 amendment, when the Civic Platform also submitted such a project. What is the content of this project? Supplement to the first tax group for which inheritances and donations have been released, to include foster families, family homes of the child, persons staying in a care and care facility, so that both pupils and educators can give each other or pass the inheritance without tax, as well as those staying in a regional care and therapy facility. This bill, for which I am presenting a report, has received both the support of the government, we welcome this opinion as well as all the ladies and gentlemen in the Committee on Public Finance. All the more so, I am pleased to say that the entire Committee on Finance, that all its members at the meeting recommend the adoption of this proposal by the High House. I think the introduction of this project will be quite quick, that it will be quick proceding. I do not believe that this will be one sitting as quickly as some in the legislation, but I hope that you will support this proposal today and during the vote. On the other hand, I would also like to point out that for the first time in the Committee on Public Finance, it was possible for a Member other than the Member of the governing coalition to act as rapporteur. [[Applause]] I am delighted to be able to present this proposal to the High House. I will still have the honour, by the way, to present myself as the Member of the applicant who made this request, and to inform you of other elements of this project as well. I hope that another group will join the first tax group, where there are typically family ties, initials, successors, who will be able to transfer their inheritances and donations to each other without tax. I also hope that the High House will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u223	Thank you very much, Member. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the position of this club will be presented by Mr Tadeusz Cymanski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u224	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It's a real treat to be in that role. I'm very happy for you, signing off with both hands. Swallow is not spring, but still. And let this role of vice-president be that swallow. Let this fact be a good sign. Maybe something will change. I've been looking forward to this for many years, 20 years. However, these very brutal, hard rules in the Seym function on a daily basis. I think it's about time, because it's never too late for us to start working together a little bit more, not just in symbolic form, but also in content and fact. I've got four minutes to finish. As for the bill itself, it is so clear, so obvious that even a minute is too much. But I will use this time and opportunity to address these words to the Vice-President on a subject. It's about a certain aspect of the bill. This bill once aroused great emotions. We are one of the few countries in Europe where there is no limit to the fall exemption, which is taking place in many countries. This is significant, interesting, and in a situation... There you go, there you go, who's nodding. It is the essence of liberalism itself that will nod at this moment. These are topics worth coming back to. But I'm talking about something else, even the form we have today. Well, there was a person addressed to my parliamentary office. I have no doubt that you have had such experience. It's true that there's a rule: the law doesn't work backwards. The ignorance of the law is bad. What am I getting at, and what am I talking about? Short, three minutes. I'll make it. The point is that many Poles are often in a difficult situation of life. I had in mind a widow who had taken care of her dying husband for many years. After he died, before she died, she was given a gift. It's been six months, and someone said to her, "Listen, did you notify the IRS? The point is that the recipe has not only a certain content, but it has a sense and an intention. She is positive, but in practice it happens that people without bad will in the course of life's difficulties, in chasing or even in their forgetfulness of this action will not complete and reach 20% of such a racket. It seems that from the point of view of the Constitution, also the meaning of the law, this raises doubts. And the fiscus is ruthless and deletes. There are situations. I could talk more about it from the autopsy, too. This is a matter, an aspect. We have so many different jobs and jobs, and now we have this teleworking. It's worth mentioning, by the way. And that's what I'm doing, and that's what I'm putting forward to my own political camp, but also to the opposition, to think about and on concrete examples to see what it's like. The father of a child or marriage gives an apartment in the form of a donation. It doesn't complete, and they find out in years. There's also a verification system for this. It makes sense when information is between the notary and the IRS, because we need to control this illegal world. But the victims of this solution in practice are often very honest people who can undisputedly demonstrate honesty of origin, source of origin, meaning and circumstances. It's a voice. On this occasion, thank you very much for this small gesture. This shows that differing very fundamentally on the principles of economic, social or tax policy, on many issues where we are dealing with the human face of certain problems, we can get along. I'm very happy for you. Madam Vice-President's thoughtful face, I don't know what's bode well, but I think I've given the point, the essence of the problem. I'll answer that. Good. Thank you very much. There's still a minute. I don't think there's a last word for social affairs yet, but that's another story. I would like to thank those who were the initiators of these provisions at this point in time. It happened that it was overlooked, indeed. If they benefit from an initial, immediate family, then those who have experienced fate in a special way should first be covered. I am glad that Mrs Krzywonos and her colleagues from the Civic Platform noticed it and did so, and we supported it without delay. Let it be, as I said in the beginning, a good sign. For these moments to be more, I will try and ask the club president to be the rapporteur, or at least on behalf of the club to speak, because it is a pleasure when there is no everyday thing, and there is a lot of it every day. We know what's going on. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u225	Thank you very much, sir. Now, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will present its position to Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u226	Dear Marshal, Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I also took the role of the person presenting the position - my colleagues from the Civic Coalition Club - on this project. It is worth mentioning that this proposal was presented to the High House already in 2019. Agree, Mrs Krzywonos, whom I very much thank, my clubmate, has drawn attention to this element of supplementing the Act on inheritance tax and donations. It was the Civic Platform club in 2006 that presented a project to ensure that no inheritance and donation tax was included in the first tax group. We have prepared this project, waiting six months for the government's position and another project. But we initiated it, and that theme that we put in our proposal was used throughout the project. We forgot, maybe... We haven't forgotten. We did not include this group as the first tax group and in this case in April 2019 we presented this project to the Sejm. We've been waiting a long time. The first reading took place in May, but then nothing - despite the declaration and waiting for the position of the government, which was received in July Ub. In this House there was consensus, in this Chamber all the clubs supported this project, but one of the Members of Law and Justice said that it was necessary to ask how this would affect the income of local government units. Yes, he was right, it will affect the income of the local government units, because this tax is assigned as the revenue of the local government, but the local authorities agreed that in the situations we are talking about, the immediate family of this tax should not pay. The previous exemption criterion for the family is 7,000. zł. We've put in some rigor so that there's no use for this and manipulation, and attempts to transfer money, which is money laundering. It was supposed to be a clean, transparent project. In this case, as he said, among others. Mr Cymanski, we have pointed out that very often before 2006, before this solution, one of the spouses dies, the other remains with a fall and, although they have been working together, has to pay inheritance tax and donations - even though they have run a joint farm, although they have jointly invested in certain goods. Thus, this solution that we proposed in 2006 has worked well, is not used as a money laundering instrument. Yeah, there's still the element we're talking about. Whether and from what amount, or all the elements... That amount would have to be determined. If these inheritances and donations exceed a certain amount... It's about whether or not to bring her in. It's like Europe. You were in the European Parliament at the time with a lot of royalties, I would like to say, but we have considered that those who... We build the Polish economy, we build Polish companies, we build the welfare of Poland and Poles. Then, despite this discussion, we agreed that it would be a free amount. We didn't have time for society to get rich, so this was a solution. I know that this element of the discussion is coming back. My colleagues again submitted this proposal in December. I'm glad because he's going through, but I'm not happy because for this project to be born, it took nine months. So let us hope that it will be soon and this solution will be adopted by the High House, that this solution will also be accepted by the High Senate and that we will have a complementary, complete solution. For discussion and taxing even Mr Cymanski [[♪ The bell ♪]] I don't want to talk you into it. The Civic Coalition Club invites Members to accept this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u227	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Maciej Necessary and Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic will speak first.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u228	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have no doubt that the state should be primarily for people, to support them in their daily struggles, to help in what is important. The proposed change exempting people from inheritance tax and donations from foster families and foster homes will make that happen. That's the way it's going. And that's why we're enthusiastic about it. I share the joy of Mr Cymanski that it is great that we managed to do this unanimously. And at the committee meeting, and here in the parliament hall, we all agree that this is a good change. The current situation is simply unfair. Children who are raised in foster homes are strangers in family homes under inheritance law. That's obviously not the case. And this injustice must be corrected. Too bad it took some time. It is a pity that over the past few months, various other matters, fracking wars, party interests and a few other equally exciting things have caused us to postpone the final solution to this problem. But it is worth appreciating that we still agree on this and that we want to solve this problem. But since we are already at justice and the law of succession, I would refer to what Mr Cymanski said. I mean, obviously, it's unfair that people from foster homes or foster homes aren't treated like a family, and that they have to pay tax from housing, from that mostly small property that they get. But it's just as unfair that we don't have any tax on big fortunes. That means the heirs of the biggest billion-dollar fortunes don't pay any taxes. This means that there are more and more people in Poland, the richest people in this country, which are the richest because they were born the richest. And it has less and less to do with their merit, their work or their talents. This injustice in inheritance law would also be worth repairing, it would be worth introducing civilized inheritance law in Poland, tax on great fortunes, so that... European. European. A European tax that will actually make this constitutional principle of social justice work in practice also in the field of inheritance tax. And that was my appeal. It's great that we're doing this, but if we're fighting for justice and for the inheritance law to be fair in Poland and for people, in time - let's move quickly - let's also deal with inheritance tax from the biggest fortunes. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u229	Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u230	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding with a parliamentary proposal to amend the Act on inheritance tax and donations, which aims to exempt from tax acquisition through inheritance or donations of property, property or property rights by persons residing or staying in a foster family or in a family home of the child. Thanking the Members for presenting this proposal, I would like to say one thing. My esteemed previous speakers told me about money and taxes - I'll talk about bonds. The axis of social conflict, and even I would say that the worldview, civilization is going on today among those who want to decide for others what their relationships should look like, their families, their relationships, who they should love, who they should give gifts to, who to share their property with, and those who think it's their decision, their prerogatives and their emotions. There's no worse love, there's no worse families, there's no worse parenting, there's no worse children. Nothing but inheritance tax and donations, and yet, in the light of today's law, foster parents in foster homes or foster homes are strangers, unlike biological children or adopted children. However, this shows the philosophy of the Polish state, which differentiates the category The bond between the people who loved the children and gave them a home. I am pleased that in the political struggle of Members and Members, they have found the time and motivation to deal with the clipping of the everyday lives of citizens who, by force of their love and care, repair the world of children deprived of this love and concern. The Polish state and Polish local governments will lose little by giving up these tax revenues. On the other hand, they will gain much by pointing out the importance of carers' commitments to children in their family homes and foster care. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u231	Thank you very much. I would also like to thank Marshal Piotr Zgorzelski for holding the meeting. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The meetings shall be held until the end of the month following the end of the month following that of the month following the end of the month following that of the month following that of the month following that of the month following that of the month following that of the month I cordially invite Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present on behalf of the Coalition Polska Club a position on the report of the committee on the parliamentary draft law amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations, Parliamentary prints No 143 and 533, agreeing at the outset with my esteemed previous speaker Mr Cymanski, that a nice variation is to proceed over the draft law, which raises no doubt and which makes sense the general agreement of the House. As far as details are concerned, the project provides for an exemption from the tax on the acquisition by inheritance or donation by persons residing or staying in a foster family or in the family home of the child. Finally, after the amendments, the project includes foster families, foster homes, care facilities and other forms of care provided by relatives and unrelated persons, defined in the Act on foster care. And as it has already been said, now, apart from the closest relatives, including adoption children, the release also includes stepdad, stepfather and stepmother. In the circle of those closest to whom the exemption is granted, there will therefore be both those between whom there is blood ties and those closest to whom the relationship arises as a result of a legal act or by a judicial decision. High Izbo! It is right to demand that the situation of foster children be aligned with that of children who are raised in natural families. As part of foster family care, they are raised in most cases. Throughout his childhood, a child in a family home or a foster home in many cases considers his carers to be real parents. Conversely, carers consider these children their own for the rest of their lives. In view of this, when a former ward has to pay tax on inheritance or donations as a foreigner belonging to the third tax group, and thus in full amount, it is commonly considered unfair. The proposed regulations deserve approval from the members of our club and I think we will support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u233	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, the Wheel of the Confederation of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u234	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As Terry Pratchett wrote, there is death in life and there are taxes, but taxes are worse, because death does not happen to man so often. However, there is something that combines the advantages of both these plagues that plague humanity, and this is a death tax, because de facto inheritance tax is a death tax. For technical reasons, it is no longer imposed on the deceased unfortunate, because unfortunately, with the death of the taxpayer's ability to exploit the taxpayer by the State, I think we will be digging into it. The government's probably thinking about it by now. The guys in there are paws. As the famous storycopist, our Polish tax Brzechwa, Mateusz Morawiecki, said, everything cannot be taxed, but it is worth trying. However, the possibility of enforcing taxes on the dead has not been enough, so to speak, penetrated, but it does not disturb you and Mr Necessary, who has already gone out, to insist that you demand commission from the deceased's assets from those who survived. This idea is so absurd that no decent person can support such a thing, from which notabene shows that our political class is probably free of this type of people, since this tax still exists. Nothing other than the greed of the state justifies taking commission from the inheritance by completely foreign people in Warsaw. The State collecting the inheritance tax is simply a grave hyena. You might as well rip out dead gold teeth. Therefore, in principle, we will support any project that will reduce the scope of this exploitation, this tax and reduce its revenue. The justification here is debatable, because, in fact, among others. This is what the adoption institution serves to inherit as a natural child. So this is a little bit of a cycle idea: partnership, let's do this kind of pretend marriage for those who don't want to get married. However, as I said, I will swallow every justification to dispel this absurd, stupid, disgraceful, bad, and harmful tax. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u235	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u236	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Taxes on real estate - in practice it's about property taxes, others it's done under the table - come from the old tradition when the whole earth belonged to the prince. When his subjects died, he could have spared it and charged for it. This tax was uneven because people were dying off the calendar, just as they wanted them to. It was converted into a tax paid once every 25 years, took the entire collection of peasants, that was the project. This was then converted into a tax of 4%. annually on the harvest and now, as the inheritance tax has been re-established, the same tax has been introduced for the second time, right? Because this tax is already included in this tax. As fellow Sosnierz rightly pointed out, we oppose all taxes on inheritance and donations, because they interfere with normal lifestyles, they also interfere with honesty, because people, in order to avoid this tax, begin to pass this money under the table - right? - they're doing different surgeries. Taxes should not forge dishonesty. They're talking about taxes from rich people. In the case of rich people, as someone is going to inherit 100 million and inherit only 80 million, it does not make any difference to him, but the problem is that, as in the case of this right change, people are generally inefficient, even, let's say, very poor, because unfortunately this money was collected from them. 'Cause he said sleep. Count Alexander Fredro: Socialism for everyone equally He's gonna rub his nose. The rich will be strangled tomorrow, and the poor the day after tomorrow, they have already been taken from the poor. It's about time we abolished inheritance taxes at all, because there's no reason for you to take money from the fact that there's traffic in business. If you want to tax - I know? - the house, because it brings some benefits, it's understandable, but why should the state take money from the donation of the house? If I give my friend Sosnierz the house, and my friend Sosnierz thinks he's gonna pay me back after two days, the state would take our money from these transactions. Why, and what right? What's the point? So we are opposed to inheritance taxes and donations, as well as to all taxes that are tax on wholly legal activities to which the transfer of property belongs. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u237	Thank you very much, sir. Three Members have asked questions. I invite you, Mrs Margaret Navel from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. Member, you are welcome to join us. We look forward to hearing your speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u238	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The introduction of a tax credit to foster parents who have received from their foster parents an inheritance or a donation is a well-founded and expected solution. These solutions value this form of care and in the chosen area they align the rights in this respect with the rights of the adoptive and biological family. However, I have a question about the effects of the regulation. Taxes on inheritances and donations are the income of local government units. These charges shall be collected by the tax authorities and transferred to the municipalities. Coronavirus has caused problems not only for entrepreneurs and for the state budget, but also for local governments, which must now face a significant drop in income. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I wanted to ask you, will this be taken into account? What is the position of local government units regarding inheritance tax and donations? Was there a public consultation with local governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left, is asked to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! A child in a family home or a foster home in many cases considers his carers to be real parents. Conversely, carers view them as their own children and raise them. Such a special relationship may also arise between educators and institutional workers of forms of foster care and children in such institutions. In this case, it is worth asking whether any consideration has been given to the question of whether, in the case of a substitute parent or an educator, he will have to pay a tax on inheritances or donations as a member of the third tax group when he or she is still alive or not. Should the tax exemption be taken into account in this respect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u241	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u242	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! The law is absolutely correct, but I would like to ask the Ministry to answer the question in writing. This situation happened on my last parliamentary duty in Gniezno. My parents gave their son property. Of course, they didn't pay tax because they're relatives in the first line. It was so unfortunate that this son died. Briefly. The parents then received this property back by inheritance. They didn't know about it or else - they weren't informed, they then sold the property received in succession after their son died and of course they received a greeting from the tax office - over 16 thousand. PLN to pay, because their property, as I mentioned earlier, received in inheritance from their son, because they sold this property earlier than after 5 years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Should the tax therefore be charged in such a situation? Is there any individual tax interpretation that would respond to the drama of the situation of those people who now have to pay this tax out of their agricultural pension? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u243	Thank you very much. We close point pt. questions and please answer. The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance, Minister Jan Sarnowski. Minister, four questions, four brilliant answers. I see you can do it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u244	Of course. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, sir, we will answer... We will answer questions in writing, Mr Marshal, and given that this is a parliamentary project, the questions should be answered by the rapporteur. I'm ready. Come on in. If you're a marshal, you'll invite me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u245	Minister, you've made a deal with me that's ugly. That's all you wanted to say? Thank you very much, then. [[Applause]] The Minister is returning to his seat, and we thank him kindly. We ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska, the representative of the applicants. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u246	Dear Marshal, Before I begin to thank you after today's debate on this project, I would like to focus on questions and answer questions raised during this debate. Firstly, Mr Cymanski, speaking in the debate, spoke about these solutions. Mr President, I hope that you support this and will continue to support it as you have declared. We changed the inheritance tax and donations in 2006. We were the initiator of the fact that, in the case of the first tax group, we considered that in our project the closest ones, this tax was not charged. Secondly, it was the Civic Coalition club that submitted the project in 2019, during this term, and previously the Civic Platform club. There have been many discussions, in this Chamber we have dealt with it, on the Left side there have been such voices, whether there should be a threshold to pay inheritance tax and donations from high estates, from large fortunes. That was the voice of the Confederation, Mr Sosnierz spoke. We accepted - the first tax group, regardless of the size of the inheritance, the donation, we talked about it. We in our project put it that there is no tax payment in this group. We completed this because we were talking about what you were talking about, about the need for family ties, not just biological bonds. If we are to talk about the issues that concern the local authorities that Mrs Płępek referred to, then the local authorities, at the time we introduced this regulation in 2006, agreed because this tax was not necessarily regarded as a fair tax, and if we were to examine what percentage of revenue is tax on inheritances and donations in the income of local governments, it would appear that it is traceable. Self-government understands in this case the content that is important from the social point of view - for parents, for children, for all those who are in this tax group. These relationships are important, and sometimes children from a young age also build family wealth and contribute to work. I am also pleased that the Left Member has said that there will be no so-called. worse children - so-called so that no one is offended. In this case, there will be an equalization. Wherever there is a substitute care, there will be no inheritance tax and donations, at least this is the declaration for today's Club of Law and Justice, because it is also up to the camaraderie, which shape, the final expression of this bill will have. Mr Korwin-Mikke spoke about the elimination of inheritance tax and donations at all, as this has crossed the note of Mr Sosnier's speech. Ladies and gentlemen, if you do a project like this when it passes... It's gotta be done. Would you sign? We'll talk about this sometime. I'm not declaring today. I am speaking as rapporteur for the applicants, and so I am talking about the project that we have tabled. Based on the step that will be completed, we put it together so that we could carry out this project. So we faced it, and we took the first step. If there are further steps, we will talk about what and how much the state should take, how much taxes. And I think that during this discussion today we talked about the fact that the state wants to raise VAT. We also count (the bell) on other clubs that there will be no increase. I would like to thank Mr Krutul, Mr Tomaszewski. I can be in touch with you, and we are also interested in this, because the matter of the sale of the estate before the end of 5 years is important and important. I hope the finance department will help with that as well. I would like to thank all of you, ladies and gentlemen for working in the Committee on Public Finance and supporting this project and today's debate. I hope this bill will find a happy finale. I also wanted to thank - Mr Marshal will allow, I am finishing - also the legislators who helped us formulate amendments so that the project is complete and has a chance to accept the High House. I hope the whole House will support this project. Thank you very much again to all of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u247	Thank you very much. Madam, I am pleased to give you a minute longer, because there are so few nice words in this Chamber that you have made the sky out of this room for a moment. Thank you very much, Member. [[Applause]] Oh, thank you. Mother of God, I'm not. Come on, Mother of God, there's only one. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report of the Administrative and Internal Affairs Commission on the governmental draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws (prints Nos 484 and 589). I would very much like to ask Mr Paul Hreniak to present a report to the committee. Hello, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u248	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the government draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws, seym prints Nos 484 and 589. The Sejm at its 15th meeting on 22 July this year, pursuant to Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The bill concerns three substantive areas. Firstly, the project aims to align the Polish legal order with the amendments introduced by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union to the Community Code on Visas. The Act provides for changes to the new legal order. The second area, which is regulated by the draft law, concerns the introduction of measures allowing Poland to carry out its preparations for joining the visa-free travel programme with the United States of America. In this respect, the bill introduces an obligation to check migration officials for their criminal record. The last, third area of the proposed changes are changes forced by bad experiences in the functioning of travelers' health insurance for foreigners. In this respect, among other things, it concerns: to regulate the means of verifying those insurances which are required when issuing national visas. In the current legal state, it often turns out that the health policies that foreigners have are unreliable. This situation is clearly affecting the finances of the Polish health system. The amendment of the rules is aimed at increasing the requirements for the insurer, provisions are introduced which guarantee its adequate level of reliability and reliability. Five parliamentary amendments of substance were tabled at the committee meeting and seven amendments from the Parliamentary Legislative Office of a legislative and technical nature. I would like to stress here that one of the amendments tabled by Members during the committee meeting concerned support for those who were being repressed by the Belarusian authorities. We are all watching the situation with our eastern neighbour and we know that the repressions applied by the authorities can cause an increase in the number of citizens of Belarus, who will be with us, in the territory of the Republic of Poland looking for a quiet place to live and to work. This amendment allows the holder of the humanitarian visa, the person who is the victim of repression, to work legally in the territory of the Republic of Poland. I think this is a very important gesture of the Polish state towards those who are being oppressed. As regards the other amendments tabled, they clarify the existing provisions of the Act. All the amendments tabled received a positive opinion from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The entire bill received unanimous support. All Members voted in favour, no one abstained, no one opposed. The High Committee, after first reading and considering the draft at its meeting on 11 September, requests the adoption of a law together with the amendments tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u249	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mrs Magdalena Sroka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Good morning, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u250	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the draft law on amending the Act on Foreigners and some other laws. The bill provides for changes in three areas. The first of these areas is the implementation of EU rules on changes relating to the issuance, revocation and cancellation of national visas remaining in the field of national law. The next area concerns the introduction of measures to implement Objective Five - measures to prepare the Republic for accession to the visa-free travel programme with the United States. Those provisions require that the officials responsible for issuing visas be checked for their criminality. The next, last area is the introduction of changes in the regulation of travel medical insurance. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports and will vote in favour of the proposal. At the same time, I would like to make two more amendments to the project presented. Thank you. These amendments are complementary to the humanitarian aid rules. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u251	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Artur Łącki from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government's draft law amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws, prints No. 484 and 589. The Act, which was presented in December 2019 by the Minister of Administration and Home Affairs, aims to bring the Polish legal order into line with EU law. It also introduces a number of measures to achieve the objectives set out in the Action Plan preparing the Republic of Poland to dull visa-free travel with the United States and amends certain provisions in the Health Insurance Act. Without a shadow of doubt, it must be stated that the adoption of this law by the Sejm is necessary. This will allow the citizens of Poland to benefit fully from the facilities of the visa-free travel programme. The impact assessment shows that adapting the Polish legal order to European law brings the necessary changes, among others. in the Foreigners Act, the National Criminal Register Act, the Insurance Act and some other laws. The revision of the European Visa Code requires amendments to certain provisions of the Foreigners Act. It introduces arrangements to include in the call for information required by the Regulation on the Community Visa Information System and to exchange data between the Member States of the European Union on short-stay visas. The project also puts new information obligations on the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The provisions on visa consultations will be amended. It is proposed to introduce specific deadlines for issuing a national visa by the consulate and how to apply for a national visa. A change in the amount of Schengen visa fees at the border makes it necessary to amend the Tax Fee Act. There is also a need to amend the consular law. A register of complaints concerning the tasks or activities of the consul relating to the issuing of Schengen visas is necessary. Visa-free travel to the United States of America has been in force since 1986. It was established, as translated, to develop tourism and strengthen ties with the United States. It currently covers 38 countries, including most of the European Union's countries. Until the announcement of the decision by President Trump did not include Poland, Bulgaria, Romania and Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, the Act also introduces a number of changes in insurance. The conditions to be met by companies offering travel medical insurance will be defined. This will undoubtedly improve the safety of Polish citizens travelling abroad. The Act introduces the principle that an applicant for a national visa will be obliged to provide travel medical insurance for the entire duration of his stay, unless there is health insurance. This solution will be very beneficial for foreigners applying for a visa - it will safeguard their interests - as well as for the Polish health care system. The level of insurance care offered by some insurers so far was insufficient, which was very negative, mainly in financial terms, on the Polish health service. In addition, the last committee meeting also introduced amendments to the humanitarian visa, which I think will directly affect the citizens of Belarus, for example. This is in line with the direction of the Polish government. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of both the above facts and the fact that during the work of the committee and the subcommittee, the amendments have been discussed and taken into account in detail, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition declares its support by the Members and Members of our club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u253	To be honest, I'm terrified. It's so unanimous, I haven't seen anything like it in a long time. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. I'm curious about the positions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u254	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the parliamentary club, the Left has the honour and pleasure of submitting our opinion on the Foreigners Act and the Tax Tax Act. The amendment of these laws results from the need to adapt the Polish law to the law of the European Union adopted last year, the new Community Visa Code adopted by Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, as well as the amendments accompanying the procedures for issuing, withdrawing and cancelling national visas which remain within the scope of national law. In this respect it is proposed, among others. arrangements allowing the information required under the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Visa Information System and the exchange of data between Member States on short-stay visas to be included in the invitation. An important issue in the law that has been regulated is the problem with the issue of the possession of medical insurance by foreigners. In addition, the proposed regulation on the requirement of non-punishment for intentional and deliberate tax offences for immigration officials aims at introducing measures to implement Objective 5 of the Action Plan preparing the Republic to join the visa-free travel programme with the United States. The introduction of these regulations is a prerequisite for Poland's accession to visa-free travel. Under the new rules, all Polish immigration officials, regardless of the level of access to classified or sensitive information, will be checked in terms of criminality. My club analyzed the most important changes that are proposed in this bill. Thus, the possibility of applying for a visa in institutions located in the country where the foreigner legally lives and resides. This may potentially facilitate the submission of applications outside the country of origin. Second amendment: to allow visa applications to be submitted 6 months before departure and not only 3 months so far. At the same time, it is proposed to remove the requirement that a meeting should not be more than 2 weeks between the appointment to submit an application and the meeting itself. Applicants for work will be required to provide proof of health insurance or travel medical insurance for the entire period of validity of the visa and not until the applicant has been covered by health insurance. We welcome our joint agreement, the agreement of all the clubs and parliamentarians represented by all the political forces in this Sejm, so that humanitarian visas are established for the citizens of Belarus to enable them to work legally in our homeland. My club, after examining all the elements that I have said here in the High House, will vote in favour of the amendment of the Foreigners Act and the Tax Tax Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u255	Thank you very much, sir. The chance for someone to be against is in front of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. But if that's the case, we're about to find out. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Speaking on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - PSL - Kukiz15, I will say that we will be one of those groups that will support this project, although we see some things in it to improve and I will present an amendment at the end of my speech. Why do we support this? Because we are a party oriented towards economic development and all the solutions that favour, support and support this economic development in Poland are recognized by us. In this project we are talking about improving, among others. visa issuing process for those who are trying to come to Poland. Note the structure of visas. Well, the analysis says that over 80% visas but at least 80% visas issued by Polish foreign institutions, abroad, Polish consulates, are visas allowing us to take up work in Poland. So we are looking very closely at this aspect. Note that today in Poland, in order to be able to develop in many areas of the economy to win international competition, to compete well, and products produced in Poland were cheaper in the international arena, so that this competition would win, cheap labour is needed. We see a systematic increase in employment costs in Poland, therefore it is necessary to supplement the labour force in Poland with foreigners. If we pay attention to what is happening in some sectors, we will see in these sectors either permanent, or permanent, lack of workers or periodic. Sectors such as tourism, such as construction, agriculture, in particular gardening and fruiting, are those sectors that are experiencing very large shortages of labour at certain moments of the year, when there is the greatest demand for them. Let us also note that we have recently amended the employment promotion law and labour market institutions in order to improve the process of granting work permits, which consequently leads to such a citizen, a foreigner having the right to obtain a visa in Polish consular offices, which allows him to come to Poland and take this job. At that time we noticed that not necessarily voivodship offices, as it has been so far, should be dealing with this process, because they are not functional in this respect. I would like to remind you that, as far as citizens of Ukraine are concerned, these numbers are often already going into millions, not only in a few seasons, but even in one season. These are the citizens who come to Poland, build Polish GDP, make our economy grow. We then entrusted this element, which is necessary to obtain a visa, i.e. to obtain a seasonal work permit, not to voivodship offices, but to district old offices. In the name of the old-fashioned, these decisions are usually issued by county labour offices. This process is working very well because many of these citizens are coming. But in the seasons of the greatest demand, we see that the citizens of Ukraine are beginning to run out. So we start as various industries also looking for such a solution, so that in our businesses, in our companies, companies, as well as in farms or food companies, we employ citizens from other countries, a little further away, and in their case we unfortunately need to obtain the consent of the regional offices. This undoubtedly limits their supply, because the procedure is quite complicated, and getting a visa itself - it is a bit improved, but not quite yet - causes these citizens to arrive relatively little and certainly not as many as Polish employers would like. As a result, we observe at certain times, in certain periods a definite lack of workers, which causes many sectors of our economy not to develop. We are losing it because of the rules that really restrict us internally in winning this competition. Note what happened in the spring of this year in the case of COVID, when the Polish-Ukrainian border was closed day by day for the movement also those workers who took up work in Poland. Many sectors were concerned, many sectors were in crisis and some companies were practically bankrupt due to lack of workers. We cannot make it possible for such reasons or for another epidemic event, but also for a political event - I say here, for example. There has been a lack of workers in some sector about the events that take place in Belarus. Therefore, by drawing lessons from all these experiences, from the process of issuing visas, obtaining work permits, we believe - such an amendment we will make - that obtaining work permits should be simplified, they should be issued by the old men, as they do in the case of seasonal work, and there is no pathology. We did not create a narrow throat there, but, on the contrary, we opened a wide gate for these workers. It is necessary not only to expand the number of countries from which workers could work in Poland under simplified conditions, but above all [[♪ The bell ♪]] you need to direct the process of granting work permits downstairs. This will be the case for this amendment. I firmly believe that this amendment will be accepted by both the government and other parliamentary clubs during the committee's work. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u257	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michał Urbaniak from the Wheel of the Polish Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project, which we are currently investigating, is essentially about amending the Foreigners Act, and it is also about tax charges. There are several records here that rationalise today's practices. It is about precise deadlines for issuing visas, it is about the need to abolish visas to the United States at all. Those who would be working on this would have, for example, been in possession of it. certificates of non-punishment. All right, these are the right records. The regulation on travel health insurance is also a valid provision. It is not the Polish State that should be obliged to keep the person coming to Poland and possible treatment of the person coming to Poland. Of course, there are extreme cases where this is going to happen. The person inviting to Poland should have the means for the foreigner to leave Poland. That's also the record of the bill. And great. These are the records that rationalize it. We, as the Confederation, mostly agree with them. On the other hand, by taking advantage of the fact that I am already here, I would like to draw attention to the fact that there are other problems with foreigners. Today, a few words have been said in the Chamber about Poland's need for cheap labour, that the Polish economy will develop just when it has more cheap labour. I think these are some of the least appropriate words we need here. At a time of economic crisis, at a time when we do not know what the Polish economy will look like after COVID-19, just the development and introduction of larger numbers of immigrants into Poland, e.g. the Polish economy will become even more neocolonial, that it will simply carry out some simple, cheap tasks, and innovation will be elsewhere. This will not be agreed by the Confederation, which is why I would remind you that the problem of migration and inviting, for example. The cheap labour force is also a question of responsibility of the Polish government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u259	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnier.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u260	Hello again. I, in turn, have a very ambivalent attitude towards this law. On the one hand, it contains some minor rationalization and ordering of certain matters that can benefit citizens and travelers. On the other hand, it reveals all this sick bureaucratic Byzantium, in which it has grown as prosaic as traveling. Once - it may not fit in your head - a man just came to another country and no one asked him anything, any insurance, permissions, visas, passports. You just used to come and go. And now it's increased in so many procedures that you have to issue more laws to get these procedures straightened out. ♪ I'm amazed ♪ e.g. regulation requiring the person inviting the money to return. I can have that money today. I can't have it tomorrow. I don't know how it's gonna be checked that someone is able to hold this foreigner. Tickets can be expensive. Or I could lose my money. It would be easier if we wanted to do something like this at all, order bailing out this foreigner who's coming to make this bail, if he didn't have a return ticket right away, so that it would always be possible to get it off him. On the other hand, this system seems deadly and excessively complicated to me. There's more to it than that. So on the one hand there are positive elements, on the other hand there are not very positive elements. Therefore, I am not convinced of the vote, either in favour of this law or against it, and I will abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u261	Thank you very much. Three people came forward to ask questions. Here we go. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! According to the amendment tabled during the committee's work, we are amending the Employment Promotion Act which allows humanitarian visas to be adopted Legally working in Poland. Could you tell us how many humanitarian visas have been issued to citizens of Belarus at the moment? How does the government estimate how many of these people can appear in Poland? How many humanitarian visas do we have issued to nationals of other countries? And could you also simply say whether this provision is sufficient or whether there will still be a need for a change, suppose, in the form of a regulation of the Minister of Labour, which would allow this to happen legally, or only on the basis of this law will these people be able to work legally? And my second question about what happened recently in Greece - I am talking about a refugee camp here. Are you listening to the minister? I have recently had the opportunity to speak with my counterpart, the chairman of the committee in the Greek Parliament. Well, there are 5,000 in Greece. orphan children. Most countries of the European Union decide to do so, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that he agrees to accept in his country several, five, six, children, let's say, within the framework of the so-called. Help. Is Poland also considering adopting several children of Syrian orphans into Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u263	Thank you very much. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would also like us to try today to talk about a visa information system that has been operating since October 2011. Poland is in this arrangement. Various types of errors are often reported as a result of the implementation of the GDPR rules, as well as the lack of possibility of forgetting in this system. And I wanted to ask for a written reply on what it looks like to implement GDPR regulations on the Polish side, as regards the visa information system and whether there were any work or whether you have any comments that could indicate that this implementation was not progressing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u265	Thank you very much. To answer these questions, I wanted to ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Interior and Administration of Minister Bartosz Grodecki. Minister, a particularly interesting question concerns the possibility of adopting orphans. It's interesting. Yeah, I'll take it back. You're welcome, sir, your microphone.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u266	Dear Marshal, Honourable ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to answer these questions on a regular basis. I'll answer that. As far as these changes are concerned, which you have asked, thank you - yes, an additional regulation will be issued. No problem. As far as numbers are concerned, numbers are now variable. We have data from, say, August 18th until today. More than 200 people entered Poland in humanitarian mode, while this is now. Belarusians. Yeah, Belarusians, humanely. On the other hand, applications for humanitarian visas arrive at consulates all the time and they will be processed. The time to process such a visa is between 3 and 5 days, because these visas are consulted. If, of course, the Member wishes to receive detailed statistics, then of course, we will pass them on, but please also tell him whether this time corresponds to you from 10 to... For today. For today, well, we'll answer that. Similarly, if we may, Mr President, we will reply in writing on visas, because here we will still ask for input from the Foreigners' Office. Kids. Yesterday we had a brief conference within the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers and basically we found that we were helping on the spot. Therefore, there was this initiative of sending these modular houses and 156 of them will go to Greece. Well, I'm not exactly convinced because of the query we've made... The Member spoke of Syrian children, right? It appears from the query that these are rather Afghan children, which of course does not make any big difference, but it is quite important clarification, and orphans. Most of them These are children over the age of 14. And these declarations that you are talking about have been made by 10 countries, which is how well I count math, but this is not the majority in the European Union. It's a declaration for now. And here I would like to make it clear that these figures that are falling have not yet been fulfilled by these countries of the European Union. So that's also pretty important to consider. I think there is no doubt that there is an ethical or humanitarian thread here, but for today the position of the government is that we are helping there on the ground, but if, indeed, within the European Union, someone has declared that those children who really need help will accept it, I would like to look at it and actually see it, because for now it is only data and declarations and I know that most of them have not yet been fully implemented. Mr. Marshal! If there are any further questions, we will be happy to answer them. We will allow some of these figures to be answered in writing. Thank you very much. I bow down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u267	Thank you, Minister. I think our country may also be in the avant-garde of receiving children, we don't have to look at other countries. What do you think, Minister, about this? As I said, the ethical thread is completely unacceptable to us. All right. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. And I do not hear any objection, because Mr Braun is not in the Chamber, and we are therefore going to consider point 6. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Emergency Notification System (Prints 260 and 540). I would very much like to ask Mr Rafał Adamczyk to submit a report to the committee. Mr Rafał Adamczyk represents the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the Government's draft law on the emergency notification system, print No 260 and 540. Ladies and gentlemen! The main objective of the bill amending the Emergency Notification System Act is the need and need to make changes to the organisation and functioning of emergency notification centres, reorganisation of tasks related to the preparation and training of centre staff informs the emergency worker, the introduction of supervision of the work of centres and their staff at both local and central level, the regulation of issues related to the operation of the mobile application Alarm112, for the transmission of emergency calls in the form of short text messages. The legislative process itself was as follows: in February this year. has entered the Sejm a government project, which was aimed at first reading, among others. in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs. The first reading and appointment of the subcommittee was held in June, which was set up and held at the beginning of September. Ladies and gentlemen! Several dozen legislative amendments to the draft law were tabled at the subcommittee meeting, including five substantive amendments and several amendments tabled by Members who are members of the subcommittee. High Izbo! The emergency notification system is a critical system for citizens' safety. The aim of the amendment should be to improve the availability of emergency notifications and to reduce waiting times for emergency services to respond to the notification, thereby improving the safety of citizens and increasing the efficiency of the service's cooperation. Whether this is the case will probably be verified in the framework of the practice and activities of these services. In the proposed amendments to the Act on the Emergency Notification System, the concept of the Chief Medical Rescue Teams was replaced by the concept of a medical dispatcher, which was regulated by the amended provisions of the Act on State Medical Rescue. One of the key changes in the project is the opening to operators of emergency numbers of career promotion opportunities by graduating posts and adding to the organizational structure of CPR positions: senior operator of emergency numbers, coordinator and trainer coordinator. Additional jobs will be created from the currently allocated maximum limits for the position of the operator of emergency numbers. The division into individual CPRs was made by the Minister responsible for public administration. The currently functioning flat CPR structure and the employment of operators of emergency numbers outside the civil service corps cause the development path to be closed, which is demotivating for workers. The proposed changes will result in the retention of the most committed and experienced workers in CPR structures, whose contribution to the construction of a functioning emergency notification system is crucial. Unfortunately, limits have been introduced that may ultimately limit the promotion of individual employees. We are all aware that the emergency notification system is one of the key systems from the point of view of the security of citizens and the state. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, in order to maintain uniform procedures for handling emergency calls, which are important, among others. When adopting a replacement model for the emergency notification system, it is necessary to set up a National System Monitoring Centre, the Minister responsible for public administration, with the main task of maintaining the continuity and development of the IT system, preparing and conducting training. Is that what's gonna happen? We'll see. Ladies and gentlemen! Emergency number operators work under pressure of time, they have to make decisions and actions on which lives, health and safety of citizens depend. In addition, emergency numbers are very often called by overly demanding persons in cases outside the scope of the CPR, resulting in additional nuisance. These factors create an exceptional burden. And here comes the system that will protect the employees. Surely employees also expect additional safeguards in the form of civil liability. High Izbo! The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after first reading and considering the above draft law at its meetings (Ring) on 3 June and 11 September, brings the draft law to the High Sejm for adoption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u269	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill that the rapporteur has presented is expected, very much needed and is based on the experience that has already been gained as a result of the operation of this system over the years. As has been said, any system in which a certain procedure is notified and launched is a very important, critical element of each country. In this case, this is also of great importance in the Polish edition. It is a few of the most important issues at this point, that this time should be short, so that the person's referral, as well as her cases to be dealt with, is effective, and that this should be done through good, super-specific links that do not break so that there is no problem that this communication is ensured. This bill raises or raises, because this is the law, the level of our security. The actions that are planned here will also be moved to a higher level. I believe that this is not only a matter of reference to us, citizens, but also to those who fill this system with their work. Here, too, it has already been said that there are workers in this system who work under specific conditions. I don't know if you've seen these centers work. It's really hard work. Therefore, it is important to ensure that people working there are made more demanding, which is obvious, and this law includes training, promotions, but not only that. Protection should also be taken care of. A very important construction is among others. the protection and protection of these workers, functionaries in the State. It is a very important issue to strengthen the belief that their work is worthwhile, that they serve the State. In short, the construction of the amendment of the law is that there is an emergency number 112 in the center, which will be increasingly common and disseminated - and this will also be the role of the state administration, also at the voivodeship level - and around there are elements that fill this, i.e. people, equipment and what is to combine the whole, so that this system simply works well. It is also important from this point of view that this law improves the efficiency of the service's interaction. Often there are imperfections in this connection. This law responds to the demand in this area, unambiguously identifying the main entity, i.e. those who deal with as if the core of assistance in the sense of notification, i.e. the CPR, the Police, the State Fire Department and the medical dispatch offices, and the remaining huge crowd. Here, by the applicants, the government, this has been included quite broadly, it has been extended to include other actors such as: city guards, WOPRs, TOPRs, GOPRs and other people's helpers. This is also a very important issue. The creation of a national monitoring centre is a new, very important issue. A body will be set up to supervise the whole functioning of this system. This is a very useful, very good thing invented in this bill. I've already raised the issue of the system that operator 112 uses. We know this number is, but it's gonna get bigger every year. In this respect, there is also an idea to make it more widespread and to provide people with the opportunity to communicate quickly, and this is a matter such as obtaining point fast SMS information. This is very useful and beneficial for citizens who are currently moving quite often to different places. Such a global system will be very helpful for Poles. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will repeat what I have already said: The bill was expected and should take place in the system at this moment. She was prepared on the basis of experience. It is modern and offers modern solutions. Increases the level of security of Poles. For these reasons, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice absolutely supports this submission and asks the High House very much to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u271	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the Emergency Notification System Act, prints 260 and 540. The Act introduces changes in the organisation and functioning of emergency call centres, reorganizes tasks related to the preparation and training of employees, introduces supervision of the work of emergency call centres and staff at local and central level, and regulates issues related to the operation of the 112 mobile application for the transmission of emergency calls in the form of short text messages. The proposed solutions will improve the availability of emergency notifications and reduce waiting times for the response of the relevant services, which will consequently contribute to increasing citizens' safety. The rules on operators of emergency numbers to be protected by public officials should be assessed positively. This will to a large extent prevent reporting agents from threatening operators of emergency numbers with impunity. On the plus side, it is also important to assess the increase of career promotion opportunities through the gradation of posts and the addition to the organisational structure of the CPR functions of the senior operator of emergency numbers, coordinator and coordinator of the trainer, as this can contribute to the retention in the structures of the most committed and experienced employees who have a key contribution to the construction of a well-functioning system. However, when you look comprehensively at the emergency notification system in Poland, it raises concerns about the coming date of entry into force of the article. 25a paragraph. 2 of the Act of 8 September 2006 on State Medical Rescue, which states that from 1 January 2021 only two medical dispatchers may operate in Silesian and Mazowieckie voivodships and the others will be wound up. In smaller dispatch rooms there is a very good knowledge of the shape and diversity of the terrain and administrative fragmentation, when the names of the towns, villages and streets are often repeated. This has an important impact on the correct and rapid location of the site and obtaining the shortest possible time of arrival for medical rescuers. On the one hand, a law is being created which will result in shorter waiting times for the response of the competent services, and on the other hand, the consequence of passing another law back will lead to an extension of the arrival of medical rescuers. It is not possible to achieve a situation where the decommissioning of dispatchers will adversely affect the quality of the aid. This is a very important issue to lean on. Today I wanted to pay particular attention to this, taking the opportunity that the Minister is here. Nevertheless, given all the benefits of passing the bill, the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u273	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Rafał Adamczyk, who will tell us how cool the project was, who reported it 15 minutes ago. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear ladies and gentlemen, The emergency notification system we are talking about here is a critical system for citizens' safety and its objective should be to improve the availability of emergency notification. Whether this will be the case will probably be verified in practice if this law is adopted. Ladies and gentlemen! The law itself has many aspects which are positive and are positively received by individual workers of the emergency call centre with which the Left Club held talks before the meetings of the individual committees. One of the key and positive developments is the opening up of career promotion opportunities to operators by graduating posts and adding senior emergency number operator, coordinator and trainer coordinator to the organizational structure. Unfortunately, limits have been introduced. They may ultimately limit the promotion of individual employees, and it should be noted that in each of the centres there are several dozens of vacancies, jobs not filled by employees. As we read in the explanatory memorandum of the bill, in order to maintain uniform procedures for handling emergency calls, which are important, among others. With the adopted model of replacementability of the emergency notification system, it is necessary to set up a National Emergency Notification System Monitoring Centre at the service office of the Minister responsible for public administration, whose main task will be to maintain the continuity of operation and development of the IT system, to prepare and conduct training for the staff of the emergency notification system and to supervise compliance with emergency notification procedures. A worrying fact is certainly an increase of more than 200% of the expenditure limit for emergency notification. Let us hope that this money will be directed directly to the emergency centers. The project also includes regulations on the obligation for the operator to conduct basic training before the start of the tasks related to the operation of emergency calls and provides for regulations on the professional improvement of emergency number operators, older operators, trainers' coordinators and deputy managers. The training itself will be carried out by instructors and instructors who will have to meet the requirements set out in the regulation. Unfortunately, the bill presented in this group of lecturers and instructors has removed people with experience in the disposal and management of rescue operations in the State Fire Department and the public safety zone, among others. In the police department. Ladies and gentlemen! The regulations laid down will enable all citizens, in particular persons with disabilities, to benefit from the 112 mobile app made available by the Minister responsible for public administration. Here users pay particular attention to the fact that the application itself is more intuitive, the employees also pay attention to it, and especially attention to the aspect of deaf and deaf people. Certain elements that this application contains are not understandable to them, because most of these people, deaf people, do not speak Polish in writing and in speech. Ladies and gentlemen! Changing the bill alone is a good step, and it probably won't be the first stage, we'll change it again. The Left Club will support this change, a proposal for a government draft law amending the Emergency Notification System Act. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u275	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Urszula Nowogórska from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u276	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Koalicja Polska - PSL - Kukiz15 club, I have the honour to present my position with regard to the government's draft law amending the law on the emergency notification system, contained in the sejm print No 260. As we all know, security is one of the basic needs that every human being has. Its satisfaction builds a sense of security for the whole nation. In turn the national sense of security gives the possibility of proper development of the whole country, and this railroad allows the development of each individual. Public security and universal security, according to the National Security Strategy, is the overarching objective of the State's action. This is to maintain at the highest level the capacity to respond in the event of a public security threat related to the protection of the legal order, life and health of citizens, the consequences of natural disasters, natural disasters and technical accidents. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland we read about the obligation to ensure security for all citizens. These tasks shall be carried out by the emergency services and the appropriate notification system. The rapid and effective notification of the incident to operators is a key element in the proper provision of assistance. The continuous increase in threats, of course, necessitates a continuous analysis of the effectiveness of the measures taken. The most important element of this system is people who support the system and participate in the rescue process. You've probably heard of the term gold hour. The golden hour is the time given to both the injured and the rescue services. This is a time that ends quickly, so the services must use it professionally, quickly and effectively. All these activities take place in a lot of psychological stress. They require full readiness, speed of action, knowledge of the terrain and excellent training. All these elements require a well-thought-out training system for the emergency call centre staff and proper supervision of this system. The system so far did not provide opportunities for professional promotion, which was demotivating for all employees. It was also the reason for many vacancies and unpaid jobs. The amendment contained in the bill opens up the possibility of training and promotions, allows them to stay in the structures of the central emergency notification of experienced workers and gives them legal and psychological protection. The establishment of the National Monitoring Centre of the Emergency Notification System will, however, allow the continuity of the system to be maintained, the development of the IT system and the preparation and conduct of trainings, as well as the supervision of compliance with emergency notification procedures. In conclusion, I would like to say that the bill aims at making changes to the organisation and functioning of the emergency call centre. However, I hope that the division into individual emergency call centres, which will be carried out by the Minister in agreement with the voivodships, will also be based on previous experience in rescue operations, taking into account the size, size and specificities of the area concerned, e.g. individual voivodships, both geographicalally and in terms of availability and efficiency of the notification network. You must not eliminate existing ones, but you must remember That you have to create new ones. Take this into account. I'm asking you to. I hope that on the example of the Mazowieckie voivodship will be maintained the number of dispatchers so far, that it will not be reduced to three, as some say, and that similarly it will be in the Lesser Poland voivodship, that they will be maintained and taken into account all these determinants that I just mentioned. Ladies and gentlemen! There's one more thing I'd like to say. Another element to be considered is the proper development of the mobile application Alarm112, especially considering deaf and deaf people. Proper and intuitive development of pictograms is a key element. I also hope that the cooperation agreement that was concluded in June 2020 between the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration and the Polish Deaf Union will be completed and will, of course, be taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also aware that the amendment, the law, the draft law which will be adopted by the Sejm, within the framework of time possibilities for future experiences will allow us to draw further conclusions. We will probably often be discussing and discussing further solutions that will make the rescue services work decisively and, above all, will give safety to all regions, our country as a whole. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u277	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Tuduja from the Wheel of the Posel Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The government bill amending the Emergency Notification System Act, prints 260 and 540, is a project influencing the state's security system through the development and improvement of the emergency notification system. The government project concerns changes in the organisation and functioning of emergency notification centres, reorganisation of tasks related to the preparation and training of CPR staff and the introduction of supervision of the work of CPR centres and staff. We are talking about a late, but needed revision resulting from the environmental demands of emergency call operators. It is a small professional group with around 1400 people, which has a very important role in the state security system. These people are the first to be informed of a negative incident, an accident. They have direct contact with witnesses, often with participants of these events. Their awareness, professionalism and communication skills often depend on human life and health, as well as protection against other damage by responding properly to events to minimise their negative effects. The work of emergency number operators is to receive information about the event and to steer it further to the right places. As such, it also requires very high resistance to stress. The proposed amendment stems from the demands of this environment. It has several positive aspects. One of them is to move away from regular certification of employees who are still active. The certification will be carried out by new persons and those who have had a 2-year break in this work. The expected and positive change is the expansion of the vertical structure which creates the possibility of promotion and objective distinction between new workers and experienced workers. This is due to the extension of the structure to four levels, ranging from the operator of emergency numbers, to the senior operator of emergency numbers, to the coordinator and coordinator of the trainer. This will enable the right professional hierarchy to be built and appropriate value, also financially, the professional development of these operators. The right change is to give operators emergency numbers the status of public officials. For they are often exposed to harassment from claimful interlocutors, also in the form of verbal aggression during the conversation. The change of status will increase their level of legal protection and will reduce impunity in the case of such behaviour. The amendment also creates a National Monitoring Centre for the Emergency Notification System, which will take over the tasks of preparing and conducting training, and will supervise both at local and central level the work of CPR centres and staff. On the other hand, I would point out that the issue of supervision involves the risk of excessive migration of CPR workers, as indicated by operators themselves. In the context of the debate on this issue, a significant problem of around 70% should be mentioned. non-essential connections to 112 that absorb and waste CPR forces and resources. This indicator clearly shows that there is a lack of a specific and broad social campaign that raises awareness of the importance and nature of the emergency number. Public awareness should also be increased in the area that calls to 997 have been redirected to 112 for almost two years. In this way, during conversations, operators would not have to explain this to the callers. Interestingly, and I have this information from the active operator of emergency numbers, very professional in contact with the emergency number 112 are children. This is certainly the result of school training and this should be continued. Taking this opportunity, it is worth recalling that the emergency number 112 concerns only an emergency situation and that all other cases should be reported in an official manner. When calling 112, please indicate who is calling from, where, what happened or happening, answer briefly to the operator's questions and do not argue. So we are appealing to the government for a specific information action in this area. Public television should be used for such purposes rather than for government propaganda of success. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u279	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting a time limit for questioning - 1 minute. I invite Mr Zdzisław Wolski from the parliamentary club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all hope, too, that changes in the emergency notification system will contribute to improving the safety of residents. I would like to concentrate on a very important, or perhaps the most important component, which is the emergency station dispatchers. Since the new year, the employer for dispatchers, because they are usually dispatchers, will become a voivode. And I would like to make the government, the minister of health, the voivodships aware of their employment policies, all the more so that the article cannot apply. 23
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u281	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Paul Krutul, Parliamentary Club of the Left. There isn't. There's no envoy. I would therefore like to invite Małgorzata Płępek from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There it is. Exactly, the Member may be, and the Member is not here. He's a lazy fellow. Yes, sir, I always am. And the Member always sits here, right, I'm watching you. Women are more mandatory.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u282	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I hope that this application will only be used to help those who need it and not for other purposes, e.g. propaganda, as was the case during the presidential election, when the application served only electoral purposes. There was something like that, remember? - famous texts. As far as the medical dispatchers I mentioned are concerned, I think this is extremely important because this concerns the life and health of Poles. Minister, I think this bill is thought through to the end, and it's a good thing that we're working on it today. This will certainly help to ensure safety for those who need help. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Nevertheless, I would like to ask if this propaganda, informational, is prepared to make the information mandatory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u283	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Urszula Nowogórska from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u284	Thank you very much, Marshal. My colleague stole my questions, but let me ask you a question, Marshal. How many specific measures do you provide for an educational campaign, a promotional campaign related to the promotion of the bill that we are currently discussing? My second question is related to medical dispatch. There are cases like this, for example. in the area of the Limanów district that there are two villages with the same name, and are located in the area of two different powiats, often within a distance of approx. 50 km. That's what happened. I wanted to ask if, in the case of such errors, such shortcomings and because of the specific characteristics of the region, it is possible to organise additional medical dispatchers, e.g. In New Snow or in Limanowa. Because of the cases I mentioned a moment ago. If that is possible, Minister, because I understand that it will be difficult for you to answer this question now, because you will have to take into account the various aspects of this question, please. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u285	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As President of the Parliamentary Group on the Medical Rescue System, I welcome the draft law submitted. However, I have a question as to whether the National Monitoring Centre for the Emergency Notification System will integrate communication and notification systems with other than emergency services. I mean, above all, the units of the Water Volunteer Emergency Service, the Mountain Volunteer Emergency Service, the Tatra Volunteer Emergency Service, the Jurassic GOPR Group and the Maritime Search and Rescue Service. I also have a question as to whether it will be possible to communicate effectively with voluntary bodies within the framework of this system, in particular the Searcher Volunteer Emergency Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Papke, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u288	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, this is a very important bill for all of us, for Poles who often meet with various very difficult situations. The emergency notification system is a critical system for citizens' safety. Its implementation will result in improved availability, it will alert the emergency operator and reduce waiting times for emergency services to respond to the notification, thereby improving the security of citizens and increasing the efficiency of the service's cooperation. Here is the question: How do you predict whether, and if, the actual waiting time for aid will be reduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u289	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There isn't. And Mrs Margaret Navel is. You see, she doesn't have a friend. Yes, sir, of course. Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Parliamentary Civic Coalition Club. There it is. And Mrs Margaret Navel is. Ah, you're an MP. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u290	Always present, Mr. Marshal, whenever necessary. You've been hiding a little bit. You're welcome. Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I do not share this official optimism about the functioning of the rescue system after 1 January, among others. because when you evaluate the activity of one centre for the entire voivodship, you take into account such voivodships as. Opolskie voivodship, which is, I would say, one of the smaller, with all respect for the inhabitants and achievements of this voivodship, voivodships in Poland. It is difficult to function this single centre, which works in such a voivodship, translate into the functioning of such a centre, e.g. in the Śląskie voivodship. And from 1 January in the Silesian Voivodeship will be liquidated, among others. the centre in Bielsko-Biała, i.e. in the region which supports 700,000. inhabitants, in an absolutely diverse mountain region, where tourists rest, are hundreds of thousands a month. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The question, therefore, is how do you want to ensure the safety of residents and tourists in such regions, eliminating these centres and ordering the inhabitants of zywiecki, Cieszyński or Bielski smaller towns to call Katowice or Gliwice for help. It looks like they're being sent back to the Berdychs. I appeal for one more resummation of this idea and a change, i.e. leaving the Emergency Notification Centre in Bielsko. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u291	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left. Very good, interesting question you'll ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u292	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Over the last 8 years, there has been a reduction in the number of medical dispatchers from 337 to 39. I'd like to ask what the target plan is. In this target plan of two-city voivodships: Zielona Góra - Gorzów, Bydgoszcz - Toruń can count on two such centers in these voivodships. Question two: organizational structure. This organizational structure in all centers was to be similar since 2018, so I wanted to ask if it was. And question three. What's the plan for the cast of vacancies that are currently in the call centers? In my opinion, at least when it comes to the centers from which I received such signals, these vacancies are from 20 to 25% (The Bell). I ask you kindly to answer in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u293	Thank you very much. These interesting questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Minister Paweł Chezernaker. Minister, we expect you to answer well. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u294	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that a large part of the questions were questions about the medical dispatcher. The law that we are investigating concerns emergency notification centers, so it is also worth to explain, let's say, that there are 17 emergency notification centers throughout Poland, 16 for individual voivodships and 17 for m.st. Warsaw, the one for the Mazowieckie voivodship outside Warsaw is in Radom. The changes that the State is talking about, which will apply from 1 January next year, concern the medical dispatcher, that is, the emergency call centre system applies to all numbers that are subject to 112, and medical dispatches will only be related to medical issues. And in fact, here's the plan for these dispatchers to be 18. They're supposed to work about the same way as emergency call centers, so the argument that something doesn't work is because there's going to be less of those dispatchers... Their physical will be no less, they will simply be more centralised, as will the system of emergency call centers. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you, first of all, for so many positive, good words concerning this draft law on CPRs, because this draft law has for some time been developed in the Ministry. Here I also wanted to thank my predecessor, Minister Paul Majewski, because he practically worked on this bill, which I have the honour of presenting today. This is a project that provides for changes in several key aspects. First of all, what you were talking about here in the discussion, which is first of all, people. This system, despite the complex technical layer, is primarily the operators of emergency numbers who accept alarm calls and other employees. Thanks to the planned changes before operators will open the path of development and promotion. I think that this is also the answer to the question of how to supplement these vacancies, because if the professional path in emergency call centers looks completely different from before, it will create a possibility for another development, then we are convinced that this will be the element that will allow us to make more people want to take this job. Second, procedures. In view of the need to maintain the highest standards, the MSWiA provides a supervision system and a uniform training system, which is also increased by this law, including in e-learning format, which will contribute to improving the professional qualifications of operators and improving these emergency notification procedures. But also availability, which is this 112 application, which has been working since the beginning of this year, which we are talking about here. I would like to point out that, for several years, concrete actions have been being taken in the Ministry in relation to the development of CPRs. As you also said, first take over the 997 emergency number, which is already completely under the emergency call centers. Full computerization of emergency call center contacts with services. Today, after such a notification in CPR, this format goes mostly in electronic form. Also accepting calls in a form other than telephone calls. In addition to this text from the mobile app we are talking about here, the e-call formula, which some cars are equipped with, has been operating in our country for about 1.5 years. This means that at the time of the accident the operator is immediately reported, there is no need to make a call. We are also aware of the need for investment in workers. As a result, I would like to point out that there was also an increase in wage expenditure in 2019 and 2020, twice the increase was granted. On average, wages have increased by 41% over the last two years. I think that is also not yet the target solution, but it allowed us to stop the rotation that took place (the Bell) in the emergency call centers. All the measures I am talking about have so far been taken on the basis of existing legislation. The bill I'm honored to present gives me more opportunities. For this broad support and for support in Parliament, in the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, also for the work of the Legal Office of the Sejm and the Department of Information Technology in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, I would like to thank and ask you to adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u295	Thank you, Minister. I think that these thanks will be welcomed by rapporteur Rafał Adamczyk, who would like to speak again. I don't want to. No, sir? All right, that's your right. If not, thank you for the debate. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act (Prints Nos 562 and 591). I would like to ask Mr Peter King to present a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u296	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I have the honour to present my position on print No 562, i.e. on the draft law amending the Rail Transport Act. Let me remind you that the project is intended to implement European Union law. The purpose of the draft law amending the Railway Transport Act is to partially implement technical pillar IV of the Railway Package, which includes implementation into national law, firstly, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on railway safety. The Commission took note of this project at yesterday's meeting. No amendments were made to the project. The Commission only accepted the legislative amendments and gave a positive opinion to the High Sejm on this proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u297	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Please, Mr Peter King of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u298	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present our position on the draft law amending the Law on Rail Transport, print No. 562. The purpose of the draft law amending the Railway Transport Act is to partially implement technical pillar IV of the railway package, which includes implementation into national law: first, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union, second, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on rail safety. In addition, the implementation of Chapter VI of Directive 2016/797 also requires the introduction into national legislation of provisions relating to the designated bodies referred to in Article. 45 of this directive. Those bodies shall be responsible for carrying out the conformity assessment of subsystems with the relevant national technical specifications and standardisation documents, the application of which enables the essential requirements for the interoperability of the rail system to be met. The purpose of this Act is to ensure the continuity of the operation of notified bodies. The introduction of these provisions will apply to bodies designated as a condition for the implementation of all Chapter VI of Directive 2016/797, which is required by the European Commission to recognise notification to Directive 2016/797. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in the further work of the High House on this project will support this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u299	Thank you very much. As you can see, you haven't changed your mind. You've supported the project twice. Ha, ha, ha! Great. The implications of politics are important. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir. It is going fast, because the Members are well prepared, it is the Polish Sejm. [[Applause]] And you're a marshal, too. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u300	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on the government draft law amending the Rail Transport Act, following the presentation of the position of the committee in print No 591. Ladies and gentlemen! The law presented by the government is part of the implementation of the 4th railway package in the Polish legal order. It is worth remembering, however, that the market part has already been adopted by Parliament. On the other hand, this whole package of six legal acts is intended to lead to a kind of revolution in the rail passenger transport market. The idea behind this revolution is primarily to promote competitive mechanisms for the organisation of passenger transport. Of course, this is very good news for the users of the turn, but also for those who can switch from the existing means of transport just to the railroad, choose the rail. Legal changes combined with European Union funding should result in rail being more efficient, faster and more convenient. Unfortunately, in addition to this framework adopted by Parliament during heavy work and billions from the European Union for the modernisation of the railways, there is another condition, I would say, that is crucial. Trains must leave for the tracks and the timetable must encourage travel. And this is today, we believe, the largest deficit of the law and justice government. But I'll get back to that in a second. High Izbo! The ratio of the project legis is, as I have already mentioned, related to the need to implement the provisions of Directive 2016/797 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on rail interoperability in the European Union. As indicated in the explanatory memorandum, this Directive introduces inter alia. changes in conformity assessment bodies. These regulations de facto replace existing solutions. As a result, notified bodies based on existing rules on the interoperability of the rail system in 2008 can only operate until the deadline for the implementation of technical pillar IV of the railway package. In order to prevent notified bodies from losing their powers to carry out the marketing of railway infrastructure vehicles, it is necessary to adopt a proposed law without waiting for the transposition of all technical pillar IV of the railway package. And that, of course, is what we view as, I would say, the obvious interest of the Republic of Poland. It is worth mentioning here that these bodies must be notified to the European Commission on the basis of the provisions of this latest Directive 2016/797. At the time of notification, the Commission requires the Member State to complete the implementation into national law at least the provisions of Chapter VI of the Notified Bodies Directive. I will point out here that the implementation of most of the provisions of this chapter is provided by the Act of 13 April 2016 on conformity assessment and market surveillance systems. Therefore, in our assessment there are no obstacles to the application of the implementation procedure proposed by the government. The key changes envisaged in the project include the following aspects: the addition of new requirements relating to the conformity assessment procedure for issuing verification certificates, the addition of a requirement for legal personality by applicants for notification of conformity assessment bodies and the introduction of rules on the designation and functioning of the designated bodies referred to in Article. 45 directives. In view of the fact that the changes have been carefully discussed here by my previous speakers and during the work in committee, I would like to overlook the detailed aspects of this amendment. In fact, however, a number of these legal changes are intended, as I mentioned at the outset, to make rail even better meet the requirements of all citizens of a united Europe. This is, of course, an idea that we all support. The draft law presented by the government is intended to create a technical framework and we also support this. However, in addition to the legal changes and billions of zlotys from the European Union for modernisation, as I said, the point is that trains must leave for the tracks. What's it like today? Unfortunately, the answer doesn't look good. Parliament can adopt many more valid laws such as this, you can spend billions of zlotys, have beautiful railway routes, but if railway connections to centres smaller than the capitals of voivodships will be rolled up, and so unfortunately it is today, nothing will happen from this revolution. That is why, my dear Minister, in addition to legislative changes... Why? Good. ...we demand from the government a clear program to intensify rail connections. Only then will this IV railway package be a real revolution for people. Today, unfortunately, we do not see such actions from the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u301	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Maciej Kopc from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u302	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft amends the Rail Transport Act of March 2003. The amendment is dictated by the obligation to implement the provisions of the EU Directive of May 2016 on rail interoperability in the EU. The initial deadline for implementing Technical Pillar IV of the Railway Package was set at 16 June 2020, but due to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic by Directive of the European Parliament was extended until 31 October 2020. The 4th railway package aims to further improve the functioning of rail transport within the EU. Regulation will strengthen the role of the European Union Railway Agency, which will take over part of the competences of national safety authorities in the Member States of the Union. The European Union Railway Agency will issue uniform safety certificates, authorisations for placing a railway vehicle on the market and will pre-authorise ERTMS, the European Train Control System. In addition, it will issue a single safety certificate to railway operators which will replace the safety certificate issued so far by national safety authorities. The role of the national regulator, the President of the Railway Transport Office in the issue of technical permits, will also significantly change. It is to be responsible for placing the designated fixed railway infrastructure facilities in service. In addition, he will be able, instead of the agency, to issue a permit for placing a railway vehicle on the market, but only if the area of use of this vehicle is limited to the territory of Poland. The law shall enter into force on the day following its publication. This is a big charge against the project because it is another EU directive which has been delayed for so long. After many government works, the bill became illegible. It combines both general clauses and specific provisions. There is no uniform structure of the law. It is worth considering improving the quality of implemented law at the stage of work in parliamentary committees. The left will support this project with understanding and hope for future proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u303	Thank you, sir, for your understanding. These amendments I understand... Yes, you're welcome. I invite Mr Jack Tomczak from the parliamentary club PSL-Kukiz15. There's no envoy. Will Mr Marek Sawicki say anything as brilliant as usual? No, we're letting go. Okay. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke is very cordially invited, the Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u304	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! I'm handing out minor technical amendments to the technical bill. On this occasion I also have a few comments and a question I would like to ask if I could fit in in time for a comment. Nowhere better than rail transport can we see that Europe is becoming a museum under the occupation of the European Union. At this point in China, trains travel at a speed of 300 km/h between all major cities, and in two years, they'll travel at 500 km/h. At the moment, a train from Shanghai - about 40 km or so - travels at 500 km/h. In seven years, they'll be driving at 600 km/h. We're just a museum. Europe is becoming backwards under the occupation of the Union. There is no progress, everything is planned by bureaucrats, nothing develops. So it's a very, very sad symptom. As it goes on, we will soon be chased away not only by China but also by Nigeria. Ladies and gentlemen, trains that are right about being... This is an invention 300 years ago. Trains that are right are trains that can travel at high speed between big cities. Instead, we subsidize completely absurd transports between small towns, where powerful steam cars and equally heavy wagons carry five or seven passengers. That's what we pay back. Contrary to what a colleague of the Civic Coalition said, it must be ruined, destroyed and all money spent on building a high-speed railroad. I have one more question for you on this occasion. Now that we're talking about it, because this infrastructure still exists, these tracks are lying down, there's nothing to disassemble them right away... I am terrified that the so-called work is developing. Autonomous cars. This is completely absurd, it is extremely dangerous, because all road safety is based on the fact that this driver vis-?-vis is afraid to die. If vis-?-vis me will not be driven by a man who is afraid to die, then I will be afraid to drive a car. How do I know he's not going to the top with me? When it comes to an autonomous car, my horror comes from talking to a very distinguished man, a senator who told me it was nonsense, but it has to be done because a lot of money has already been involved. I felt as if someone had said that a lot of money had already been invested in the cyclone B factory and there is no advice, we need to build this Auschwitz. Well, that kind of argument is scary. This is evidence of the dictatorship of the industrial sector over the consumer, over the man for whom all this should turn. Railways, for example. They're not just to make a good life for the railroads, they're to make a good life for the passengers. That's what railroads are for, despite what some people think. Now my question. Now that we have to do this, autonomous cars, why don't we do it in the railroad? Like what, but it's much easier to make an autonomous train than an autonomous car. The train can't turn left, the train can't turn right, the train can't turn, but the train... Indeed, for example, when I look at the route that I drive every day, Warsaw - Otwock, it could be followed by a thousand tiny rail buses without a conductor, without a motorboat, simply autonomously, on a separate track. That doesn't present any difficulties. If there can be an autonomous car, why can't there be an autonomous rail bus or even an autonomous long-distance train. And I can't understand that. Why such an absurd idea as an autonomous car is seriously considered, but something as simple as an autonomous train is not considered. Just out of curiosity, I'd like to know from the representatives of the Minister of Transport why money doesn't go for it, but for subsidies to various local trains that are not profitable. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u305	Thank you very much, sir. I'm sure you'll find out because the Minister will answer. I'm sure he's well prepared and he'll satisfy your curiosity. Ladies and gentlemen, we proceed to the list of questions. Four people signed in. I'm setting a limit - one minute. Mr Mirosław Suchoń from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome. But don't talk, or you won't find out from the Minister. Mr. Suski will satisfy you and what will happen? You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! However, I will return to this utility of rail services for passengers, because here there is absolute agreement that we are implementing European rules for this, so that we are modernising rail infrastructure so that there is enough of these connections to make people want to use them. And I'll give you an example from Bielsko-Biała, he's a model for what the current team is doing. The city of Bielsko-Biała is the capital of the region, where about 800,000 live. People. How many direct connections are there to Warsaw? Four, ladies and gentlemen. For 800,000. There are only four connections for citizens. One before the hour. 5 a.m., 2 a.m. 8 and now attention - right after hours. 16, directly after each other, two trains leave within 17 minutes. Two trains, a little flock. Unfortunately, it is similar from Warsaw to Bielsko-Biała, except that this small flock of two trains leaves after hours. 18 minutes apart. Minister, the driving time is obviously just a propaganda version, often these calls (the bell) last 8 hours. And now, Minister, the question. Why all these billions of dollars, why all these legal changes when you're setting trains up so no one can drive them? I've seen this before, 20, 25 years ago, situations like this, these little herds were later alibis to eliminate connections. Minister, when trains really start going to Bielsko-Biała, driving passengers, and when are you going to present some program to intensify rail connections to such cities where passengers can choose railway and not drive? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u307	Then you have a problem to solve, Minister. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome. There isn't. He's in training. Are you an MP? He's in training. If he's trained, he'll probably ask a more interesting question. Małgorzata Płępek - I knew you would be coming - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u308	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft contains a number of amendments adapting national provisions to the Railway Interoperability Directive and the Railway Safety Directive. However, it is rare that there is so much illogicalness in the proceded act, e.g. the provision concerning the construction of tram lines outside the road lane implies the abolition of facilitations, which only in June this year. They came into force. Another issue is the proposed change in the conditions allowing the railway vehicle to be excluded from service. Today, the President of the railway transport office may make such a decision when the vehicle does not comply with the requirements laid down in the legislation and its continued use would create a danger. Why did the project disappear first of all? [[♪ The bell ♪]] After all, this threatens the discretion of decisions taken with immediate feasibility. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u309	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Rutka, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u310	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In implementing the Directive on the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union, which explicitly speaks of enabling Union citizens, economic operators and competent authorities to participate fully in the benefits of the creation of a single European railway area, it is appropriate, in particular, to improve the interconnection and interoperability of national rail networks and access to them, implementing any measures that may be necessary in the field of technical standardisation as provided for in Article. 171 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union? Isn't it high time to focus on rail communication exclusion when implementing the European Directive?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u311	Thank you very much. I invite the Secretary of State to the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Andrzej Bittel. Minister, we expect great things and great words from you. Especially Mr Mikke.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you for the lively discussion. I thought there'd be fewer questions, but they are as usual. Thank you for the directional support of the project, because it is an important, important project that gives us the opportunity to meet the requirements of the Directive in due time and in an appropriate way. And thank you for that. To answer the questions about this train in Shanghai, which Mr Korwin-Mikke mentioned, I think it is rather a monorail. He does indeed ride in an autonomous formula and at such speeds as you mentioned, but that is probably rare. Every day or so, he drives slower, every once in a while faster. Of course, this is a certain direction in which the railroad will probably develop. At the moment I know about the tests of the autonomous tram which took place in Krakow, carried out by the Polish company. This will be done. However, I am of the opinion that the network of rail connections should also be developed to the so-called. In order to be able to move around Poland with an ecological, safe and safe means, which is comfortable from the point of view of the passenger. It costs money and costs money. Innovation is like the second direction in which we should go in parallel. As far as calls to Bielsko-Biała are concerned, I'm gonna give you one parameter, if you don't mind. In 2015, there were about 250 and 270 Intercity stop points, now there are about 400 of them. Therefore, it can easily be concluded that the rail network is being developed, the offer is being improved, the number of passengers is increasing. It is far from complete satisfaction, but this is what our work together is about. As for Mrs Navel's question, it seems to me that this relates to this large revision of the directive, not to the small one. On this subject we will discuss when this bill will enter the Sejm, because at the moment it is addressed to the Committee for European Affairs and it is not necessary to discuss this issue. And this position, which I am presenting, i.e. developing, investing in the modernisation of infrastructure, in the rolling stock, in this whole economic environment which serves the Polish economy, which serves the development of Polish railway potential, is also a justification for the answer to Mr Rutka's question. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u313	Thank you very much, Minister. I am sure that Members of Parliament are delighted with the answer, and we are therefore moving on. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. And I can't hear the opposition. Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of items 8 and 9 of the agenda: I ask Mr Grzegorz Puda to present the justification for the bill in print 597. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u314	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let me start with the bill that raises the most controversy. It is, of course, a ban on the cultivation of fur animals. Right now, in an era of crisis relief, it is very justified to introduce this ban. According to the new legislation, animal breeding for fur will be completely prohibited. The exception is, of course, rabbit breeding. According to the Central Statistical Office, 438 fur farms operate in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Importantly, since 2016, this number has been steadily falling and today it represents 1/3 of what was 4 years ago. As you can see, there's a downward trend. But most importantly, this is also a burden for the state budget. So we have a serious economic aspect that actually fully justifies the time in which we want to introduce this law. Facts. As for tax revenue, ladies and gentlemen, from CIT and VAT, here we have negative values. With CIT it is slightly more than minus 44 thousand, but with VAT this value is up to 27 103 thousand. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. So, in fact, the Polish state is suffering concrete losses here. The criticisms of this law often raise arguments regarding the labour market. The industry says it's over 4,000. employees, in turn ZUS data show that this industry employs 846 people. These figures clearly show that we are dealing with the end-of-life industry. The fact that fur farms are in rural areas does not mean that we are dealing with agricultural activities. Fur farms, ladies and gentlemen, are an industry that has nothing to do with the economy and pragmatism of real farmers. More than 140 documented protests by villagers and small towns are a powerful example of this. As you can see, eliminating such doubts, this type of ethically questionable activity also has economic benefits. At a time when we need to quickly rebuild an economy where there are a lot of family-support expenditures, the state should not and cannot afford such losses. The Act regulates the issue of commercial, primarily profit-oriented, often mismanaged animal shelters. The proposed law sets out in detail the entities capable of carrying out such shelters. It is now an obligation imposed by local governments. However, the rules on this issue are not detailed, which makes it possible for businesses to operate commercially after approval by the executive body of the city or the municipality. According to this project, hostels will be able to run municipal organisational units and social organisations of public benefit with statutory, important, to protect animal rights. There will also be an increase in the frequency of shelter control. The Act also introduces restrictions on people running and working in shelters. There's no such sharpening today. Thanks to this bill, the requirements of age and good opinion will be introduced. Poles, as you know, live better. They're more likely to buy animals. Unfortunately, they do not always do so responsibly. Our regulations, prohibitions, or restrictions also have an educational and educational purpose. This is how you treat it, for example. ban on the use of animals in circuses. For if we establish a law that sets a clear ethical boundary, we give concrete information that inflicting pain cannot be entertainment. The same applies to owners of so-called. pet animals. Irresponsible, yielding to fashions and whims of possession of one animal or another often ends with an increased number of wandering dogs, which may also pose a risk to humans. That's why security is important. dogs on the premises, but of course in such a way that the animal is well-being assured. This project also prohibits the keeping of animals trapped in a permanent way and the definition of a pen. Under the new law, temporary holding of animals will be permitted for a minimum of 6 m. After the introduction of the law in Poland there will be a ban on ritual slaughter. However, there will be an exception to this provision. In the territory of the Republic of Poland, the Minister responsible for Home Affairs will determine the way of supervision in the case of the maximum needs of religious unions, which under the Constitution we guarantee the possibility of religious practices, including the possibility to consume meat products in accordance with a given religion. Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of this law is not only to improve animal welfare, but also to ensure the safety and well-being of the human being in contact with them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We live in Latin civilization, recently we have talked many times about the value of this civilization, as it is important to us. Its basis is love and respect for life, sensitivity to pain and suffering. In such a spirit, then, it is our duty to live and raise young generations. The bill proposed by us is not only ethical but also economic, I stress: economic, and educational. I hope that the High Council, the High Hall, the Polish Parliament will accept our bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u315	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of this information because I would not like to discuss it so that it becomes unpleasant. There'll only be 30 questions because that's all the clubs have set up. If more than 30 people are asked questions, those with numbers 31, 32, 33 will not ask questions. The PiS has 15 questions, the Civic Coalition - 9, Left - 3, PSL-Kukiz15 has 2 and the Confederation - 1. In total - 30. I inform you politely and politely, that we should not argue without meaning, because we can love each other and like each other. Ms Katarzyna Maria Piekarska will present the justification for the draft law in print 378. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u316	My dear Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! The best idea is the one the time has come. I hope that the time has just come in the Polish Parliament for better legislation for animals and that we will be able to make these provisions, these proposals that we have not been able to make during the previous term of the Sejm. I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition the provisions of the bill amending the Animal Protection Act. Our project comes down to two fundamental changes, I think, absolutely uncontroversial. I hope that it will be adopted by the majority of the House. The first question is a circus without animals. I think that in the 21st century, this password is basically understood. More than 85% of our citizens are in favour of banning the participation of animals in circuses. All the tricks we watch at shows by animals that are not in their nature often require very brutal training methods. You usually start this training when the animals are very young. On average, Cyrkas visit up to 200 localities during the season, sometimes reaching gigantic distances. There is no real possibility to provide them with the right conditions. In the course of 112 veterinary inspections in 2018 and 2019 it was found that there was no access to water, too small area of cages and runways, lack of veterinary care, skin lesions on animal skin and very many animal injuries. On 27 March 2015, the Committee of Psychology of the Polish Academy of Sciences issued a resolution stating that circus performances involving animals are devoid of educational qualities as well as potentially harmful to the process of raising young people. In addition, we already know that more and more cities decide to ban circuses involving animals in their territory. These are cities such as Bydgoszcz, Poznań, Warsaw, Słupsk, Elk, Kraków and many more. An additional problem - if we accept this project - is the artificial recording of circus activities, which are really just a cover for having exotic animals without the required permissions. According to the information I reached, there are about dozens of such activities in Poland. It is only so that someone can possess an exotic animal that he could not otherwise possess, and it has nothing to do with circus activity. What's wrong with that? In addition, the project provides for quite long, because 2-year period of vacathio legis, so that these animals can be transferred to asylum. The government is working on asylum laws right now. The second issue that we are leaning on and which is not yet resolved and which is called upon by representatives of the services is the issue of regulation and harmonisation of the rules on the provision of services to carers of animals withdrawn from the service. These animals all their lives -- this is about dogs and horses -- they serve a man, looking for drugs, explosives, looking for people under avalanches, under rubble. They are often wounded, and these are animals that are state-owned. I think that after they pulled out of the service, they deserved to have - colloquially - a decent old age. It's not. a large number of animals. I do not know if you know that there are also two dogs in the Seym - these are Cobra and Edek, who, before each meeting, check that there are no explosives in the Chamber. So that you can say that our safety is also at the end of the nose of these dogs. I think they just deserve to settle these things. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Finally, in January, I filed an interpellation on such animals. I have been told that a uniform solution should be adopted for all national uniformed services with animals used for special purposes in order to ensure their proper functioning after withdrawal from service. I will add from myself that there is one special hostel in the Veterans' Bay, near Poznań, which is led by Mr. Chmielewski, where such animals are found. This hostel is facing very serious financial difficulties because these services, whose animals are there, are in no way interested in what is going on with them. I think it's a shame that the horses that work for us in the municipal guards or the police, for example. to the slaughterhouse. Thank you very much and I would ask you to forward the proposal to the committees for further work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u317	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would listen, note, to the 10-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and to the five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. Boo... The state, including me, voted out. I'm opening a discussion. Therefore, I invite the first speaker. Mr Marek Suski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. I would like to invite you very warmly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u318	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I've been honored, even to say that it's a great honor... Disgraceful! Uh, I hear a disgrace. You'll have the opportunity to comment on why you don't like this bill. But I think this is a great moment in Poland's history because our country - here we represent our voters, we represent Poles - has been changing for many years. Unfortunately, it changes sometimes too slowly in my opinion, but it changes in the right direction. You can say on a humanitarian level that a man who loves animals loves people. Scientific research indicates that most serial killers Those are the ones who abused animals when they were children. The same can be said in the history of nations or of entire countries, that those countries that respect animals respect people, because good and love are directed to all living, not only to our species, homo sapiens, but to all. Therefore, I believe that this day is a clear day in the history of Poland. Today we are working on a law that improves Poland - in my heart, I think that in most Poles - towards a country that is humanitarian, which respects the principles of love. The love he gives to his citizens, but he also gives to the animals, our smaller brothers. If there are opposing voices here - and I hear that you are referring to the right hand - remember how in the history of the Church the great wise men were just saying that the smaller brothers should be loved and respected that God has given us the land. It is to be a land under our control, but the land under our control is a land in which those who rule it are responsible for managing it and taking care of the heritage they have received, caring for the environment, caring for the animals, of course taking care of their fate. Maybe people. But those who are the masters of this world - men are the masters of this world - have a duty to care for those who are weaker. An anti-abortion bill. About the disabled, about the old, the infirm, but also about the animals, because animals are weaker than humans. Because it's a man who has a shotgun, a trap, and a man who unfortunately raises animals also for fun... Shame. Speak for yourself. Because animal breeding... I'm talking about people, you may disagree with me, but that's the truth. For fun. 'Cause what's fur these days? This is fun. It's just that. Because today there are clothes that don't have to be made of fur animals. The president's cat is what important function? You know, I have a favor to ask you. I think you went to some school and someone taught you culture. If anyone is speaking, please refrain from commenting, do not disturb. You'll have five minutes-- disproportionately high on your 12 or 14. Okay, but it would have to be someone. You're not even a club, and you've got five minutes, so at the time, you can say what you think. If you don't like something, you can really do it in time. Ladies and gentlemen, if you'll excuse me... Mr President, I am so sorry. Gentlemen of the Confederacy circle, you will have your time. Really using ugly words, insulting people, you can't help or harm animals. Who insulted who? I'm really asking. You know I always do this with a big heart and a smile. Can Mr Suski finish? Please. In return, Mr Suski will not disturb you. Cool? There you go. That's a great idea. Let him finish. Good. God bless you, sir! I'm glad you're here. Thank you very much. Mr President, of course I am prolonging your time. There you go. Thank you very much, Marshal. And today, ladies and gentlemen, is the day on which Poland is moving towards a humanitarian state that respects international rules. After all, in the European Union it can be said that such rules already apply. I know that you may not want to be in the Union, but most Poles want to, because for them it is a determinant of aspiration and accession to civilization, although sometimes the various strange things that we do not support are also happening, but as far as this humanitarian market is concerned, the total or partial ban on animal breeding for fur is already in 16 European countries. I know that you would rather be with Moscow and here you have declared this once, but we do prefer to be in the European Union. [[Applause]] This is Austria, Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina... But I also have a request for you: don't look for a fight, because I can't control it. ... Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Macedonia, Serbia, Slovenia, Slovakia, Switzerland, United Kingdom. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be among these countries today. And I can say that I have personal satisfaction, too, because when we started a team of animal friends in Parliament almost 20 years ago, it was our dream. Mrs Bakerska is with me, with whom, among others. This team was supposed to be here. At the time, it seemed that this dream was unattainable. It took many years to work, to convince... Left coalition. That's not left-wing. Love is not left-wing. Ha, ha, ha! And this is love for animals. Yes, sir, love for animals is neither left nor right. It's just love comes from God if you know the Bible. Every love comes from God. Every love comes from God, including to animals. And Thomas of Aquinas, if you'd read it, maybe he could explain to you what it's all about. What did he say about animals? About our smaller brothers who need to be respected. No, he didn't say that. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, this team then set itself the goal, that with small steps it will be moving towards the humanitarianization of Poland. And today, you can say, is a success. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that the work of this team, in which Mr Jarosław Kaczyński worked from the beginning, who is also a great animal lover, is a huge role in the preparation of this law, and he also deserves great thanks for this project. He's an agricultural gravedigger. On the other hand, about agriculture. The applicant said here that in fact to fur farm the Polish state pays extra, because more... What, poultry, too? Yes, sir, because more is coming from VAT to these companies, [[Applause]] than affects taxes to the state budget. So in fact, it is the Polish country that maintains the business of fur animals, and as we look at the structure of employment, among the about 800 people who work there is... How much did the CIT pay? ...about half the citizens from across the border. So this is really a minimum percentage. This was about the fact that this is 0.14, as far as the state budget is concerned. So this is really little money. On the other hand, when it comes to ritual slaughter, I think that at this session of the Sejm we will try to ease it in such a way as to give an amendment that will allow these people to compensate for their losses, if that is what we are talking about. Because we also want to take care of people. But I have pictures here, how inhumane it looks. Ladies and gentlemen, there are pictures of what these farms look like. This is what we want to get rid of in Poland. [[Applause]] We want to be a country that won't be ashamed of us for being finger-pointed for such disgraceful acts. And if you're screaming like that here... If you'd seen the pictures or the movies... Go to the farm, you liar. ...what a ritual slaughter looks like, how these animals suffer, how their throats are cut on the hook, so that the blood from them drains, is, really, when we watched it at the band meeting, the women wept, our heart cut. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] We simply cannot allow such inhumane methods of making money to be used in Poland, because it is simply a shame. But that's what you're letting go of. Let's let people make money, but in a way that's humane. On the other hand, it is simply not true to say that we are eliminating the agricultural industry. No one forbids farmers from breeding pigs or cattle. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] It's just a ban on the inhumane murder of these animals, because it's a slaughter, it's murder, it's not sleeping animals (the bell) with as little pain as possible. Come to your senses, you lunatics. You guys need to come to your senses. The law and justice support this project, and in committee work we will also lean on the proposals that you have made, because they are indeed worthy of consideration. Thank you for your attention. I'm happy that I've had this moment and that we can support such a project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u319	Thank you, sir. I invite Mrs Margaret Tracz, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u320	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Wounded and mutilated animals, eaten alive by parasites or comrades from cages, numerous diseases, aggression, lack of basic veterinary care, proper food and water - today is the dramatic reality of the fur industry in Poland, the industry we are talking about today, the industry based on the business model in which the suffering of animals is derived by a very narrow group of people. Oh, profit. At this point 6 million fur animals throughout Poland are nested in dramatic conditions, in very tight cages, on bare bars. In this way they will survive for a maximum of several months, which divides them from death. When they are ill, they often do not receive the necessary veterinary help, they may be crowded several times in cages, which can lead to mutual aggression and often cannibalism. They're wild animals that go through vast spaces on the loose, which are solitary. In a cage, in unnatural hugging for them, they have no way of escaping each other, they have no way of digging in the ground, swimming, jumping and doing natural activities for themselves, living against their nature. The image we all saw last week on the shocking footage from the farm in Górzkie, this is a real picture of the fur industry in Poland. It is a farm belonging to the family of the main lobbyist of fur industry, who has been acting against the introduction in Poland of a ban on animal breeding on fur, the industry which annually spends millions of PLN on influence on politicians, on the media and on public opinion, the influence which manifests itself in the fact that the recent candidate for President of Poland tries to convince us that on the farm he saw thousands of peaceful, well-groomed and happy animals... Where were you at the farm? ...the influence that manifests itself in promoting myths about the fur industry by means of self-dependent media pretending to be independent and objective portals. Scared of the fall of thousands of companies responsible for 3% GDP, and actually according to market estimates, only around 800 are active and account for about 0.08% GDP. According to the main veterinary inspection register, there are only 476 active farms all over Poland today, and many of them, like the farm in Górzkie, create giant, uniform complexes consisting of dozens of farms. Anything to circumvent environmental regulations, obtain faster permits and tax optimization. The revenue from taxes to the State budget from livestock farming on fur in 2019 amounted to only about PLN 11 million, in the case of CIT the loss amounted to 44 thousand. zł. The fur industry is threatening to lose tens of thousands of local jobs, which is another myth. That's not true. The most optimistic for the fur industry is said to be 4,000. jobs, jobs to which the industry is looking for the cheapest worker, whose rights will be the easiest to break, who will be afraid to call for the principles of bioinsurance, which are generally broken at farms. It promotes an image that maintains high environmental standards of the industry, which is actually one of the biggest poisoners in Poland. The negative effects of farming include not only the area of the farm itself, but also air, water, soil and living organisms outside the farm, leading to the degradation of agricultural areas. It is against this degradation in hundreds of towns throughout Poland that thousands of inhabitants protest against farms. For all these reasons, the breeding of animals for fur should be prohibited. We can't be afraid to take this step. Today, two draft amendments to the Animal Protection Act and other laws will be discussed by the High Sejm, which represent an opportunity to take this step. These are good projects that carry out on issues such as animal breeding for fur breakthrough changes. They also contain good provisions concerning the break-up of dogs in chains, the enhancement of the competences of pro-animal NGOs, the prohibition of the use of animals in circuses or the provision of decent old age for animals in uniform and rescue services. We believe that cross-party cooperation is possible on this issue, which will allow us to adopt appropriate amendments that will strengthen and make this project even better. Therefore, as the Civic Coalition Club, we support both the projects presented and we count on a substantive and efficient work in committees. Together we can end the hell of fur animals in Poland, together we can change the fate of millions of animals. Let's not be afraid to do this. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u321	Thank you very much. I invite you, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u322	Ladies and gentlemen! This is the bill we would like to adopt, and we are very concerned that it will not be the same as in 2017, when you first aroused these expectations and then withdrew from those noisy announcements. Because just as Mr Suski spoke today about love for animals, so President Kaczyński spoke in talks with the Viva Foundation! that the ban on breeding fur animals in Poland is primarily a matter of relation to animals, a matter of heart and pity towards them. Except in your election program last year, you didn't even mention one word about animal rights. Why? Because the state has many political partners, such is among others. Director Tadeusz Rydzyk. And on the air of his radio he asked, "Where am I?" Can you stop the chicken breeding soon? And it seems that the pressure on his part was very effective. It turned out that as far as the rules on ritual slaughter are concerned, they could be unconstitutional. Turns out dogs are supposed to stay on chains just a little longer. As far as the ban on circus animals is concerned, it will be necessary to have a notification from the European Union. And in this way, under the pressure of such environments as Director Rydzyk, you have withdrawn from these announcements. And today we fear that you will withdraw again, that it will be not a matter of heart again, but a matter of business, a matter of money. I'm talking about this because I hope you finally have enough consequences, heart reflexes, that you will have the civil courage to bring this project to a happy end for the animals. And my appeal is short. Turn off the radio, behave decently and adopt our bill or make our amendments to yours because they are good. [[Applause]] From the opponents of change we hear misplaced, outdated arguments in this public debate. Fur-breeders are particularly active. And they say that it will lose Polish GDP. But all you have to do is look at the data to know it's a lie. Because as far as exports are concerned, since 2015 there has been a drop, and it has been about 25%. As far as fur prices are concerned, there's a 25% drop. World famous brands are leaving natural fur. That's why farms are closed. Only in the last winter, 40 such farms were closed in Poland, and over 200 in the last four years. And what is still very important is what we have managed to do to local governments, and I would like to make that very clear here. They were left without central solutions and took up certain challenges on their own, such as bans on circuses with animals in cities. On several occasions, local governments conducted court battles. And I know exactly these situations, because in 2016 I was the initiator of such a ban in Warsaw and then I met with circus circles. I've seen how much resistance there is, how much pressure they're trying to exert. It's been four years. Have circuses adapted to changing social requirements, expectations, realities? No! No. The Polish Academy of Sciences has clearly stated that it affects children's emotional development and does not have educational advantages. Nonsense is complete. Once again, the Ministry of National Education and Sport indicated that encouraging children to participate in circus performances was not recommended. I also wanted to tell you that 15 circuses have been inspected in the last two years. There are still huge irregularities, and these concern animal welfare and the conditions under which these animals are kept. Animals suffer in circuses, during training they are subjected to pain stimuli. Let's put them out of their misery. We finally have a chance. Let us have the courage to introduce animal solutions. Let's be consistent. Be consistent, you who have filed this bill, because we will certainly support our bill and vote in favour of the amendments to your bill. My previous speakers pointed out why our amendments were good, [[♪ The bell ♪]] why it is worth talking about dogs on duty, why it is worth talking about the register of chip animals. I hope that we will finally remove the issue of the protection of animals from the catalogue of objects of acute political dispute and we will be here to discuss and work in substance on this subject in committee. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u323	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Beata Maciejewska from the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u324	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today in the Seym is a festival of the forest. Today, politicians speak with a voice of empathy. Today we can stand on the side of animals. And the parliamentary club of the Left is on the side of animal rights today. We are proud that we are and can be the voice of animals in the Seym. Today in the Seym we can make decisions that will radically change the fate of millions of animals. We can, of course, present statistics... [[Game in the O.R.]] Mrs. Messenger! Excuse me a second. Gentlemen! You're the messengers. You are messengers, and you require others to behave OK. I ask you politely to listen to those who speak. It doesn't make any sense. It just doesn't make sense. What they're talking about. Sir, your comments don't interest me very much. You're welcome, Mrs. Messenger. We can of course present statistics on: animals that are killed for fur in Poland - 6 million, the percentage of animal shelters in which irregularities - 20%, animals that work in circuses, abandoned animals or those that live in shelters - 140 thousand are reported during inspections. But I would like to thank, first of all, the people who, over the years, have cared for animal rights in their daily work and tried to make their fate better and better. The one focused on NGOs such as WWF, Greenpeace, Open Cages, Viva! or Compassion Polska. This is the result of your work and your daily hard work that we're discussing today. [[Applause]] I want to thank the individualities of Polish life, such as the Nobel Prize winner Olga Tokarczuk, who is extremely appreciated in the world, also by us, by the Left, and by millions of people throughout Poland, for empathy. Everyone has the admirers they deserve. I want to thank millions of people who work for animals every day for their usual daily efforts, for volunteering at shelters to feed pets for intervening. Thank you for your work, thank you for your commitment and effort. We are with you today and we want to assure you that in this vote we will support both laws, because animal rights are in our program, the Left program, from the beginning. We have also worked on a law on fur animals, but at the request of NGOs we have abstained from it. We've set up a team to protect livestock. A few days ago, we put in place an earlier law on the appointment of an animal rights officer, so that animals finally have very strong support and that their voice is actually heard. We want an independent institution to be created with a budget and the possibilities for rapid and effective intervention. And that can happen thanks to the animal rights officer. The Parliamentary Animal Protection Team, which I am president, is called upon by both those who support this project and those who work in the industries to be completed. They say that they need attention, that they need attention to what they've been doing so far. Mr Suski has just mentioned that there will be amendments in this bill that will talk about compensation. We as the Left believe that animal welfare and human welfare must be taken care of. There must be a consensus around animal rights in such a way that people who have worked in certain industries can feel safe. The state has a number of possibilities to give money to change or other ways of operating in the economy. You don't have to hurt animals to make money. The welfare of animals and the well - being of humans - we should remember one and the other. The left will vote for this bill because we are on the animal side because we live in the 21st century and we really don't have to wear fur to look good today. We really don't have to feed on the suffering of others to feel good. As the philosopher and lawyer Bentham said in the 18th century: ask whether animals can reason or speak, but whether they can suffer. Today, in the 21st century, this statement is particularly important. For us politicians and politicians, here in the Seym, this bill is a day of trial. I hope that she will not be used cynically by anyone, and we will indeed be able to leave the Sejm with a raised head and say that as politicians and politicians, often arguing about things, we have done what is important to us, we have taken the side of the weaker ones and saved hundreds of thousands, millions of lives from death and suffering. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u325	Thank you very much, madam. I invite Mr Marcin Kulask, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u326	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! An animal is not a thing and has the right to be treated with dignity. We are pleased that there is a majority in this Chamber who considers this view to be obvious. Farming fur animals is a profitable business, but it is not a pillar of Polish agriculture. The fur-breeding industry is responsible for 0.08% GDP, 0.16% Polish export, and its share in public finances, taxes and contributions amounts to 0,014%. As regards the labour market, it represents between 0.03 and 0.06%. He's hiring 4,000. people working in extremely difficult conditions. Many of them are foreign workers. We see that limiting the possibility of selling meat obtained without stunning is a challenge for the Polish meat industry. However, it is not true that this submission will destroy Halal's meat exports. For example, the Halal OIC/SMIIC/1:2019 and MS/1500:2019 standards allow stunning of both poultry and cattle. These standards are used, among others. Turkey and Malaysia. So let us not create a vision that this bill will ruin Polish breeders and bring the meat industry to ruin. Let's not create visions that aren't there. We are also familiar with the subject of feeding fur animals waste from the production of other livestock and fish. The elimination of fur animal farming will mean the need to dispose of these waste. Currently, the capacity of rendering plants in Poland is far from sufficient. It should be the task of the State to increase these powers. The establishment of a state animal waste disposal facility should be considered. The Left demands financial support from the Government for all farmers, entrepreneurs and self-governments who will feel the consequences of the entry into force of this socially needed law. He called for such a step, among others. Ombudsman Prof. Adam Bodnar. The Left has always stood in a position to defend animal rights. Our programme was clear on this issue and received clear support from over 2 million voters. Art. 1 The Animal Protection Act of 21 August 1997 adopted under the SLD says: "The animal, as a living being, capable of suffering, is not a thing. Man owes him respect, protection and care. It is high time to take another step towards the implementation of this provision. In 10, 20, 50 years, our children, our grandchildren, will ask each of us: What exactly did you do good in the Seym? If we vote in favour of this law together now, we will have no problem giving a simple, unambiguous, understandable answer for everyone. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left Club will support this submission. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u327	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Marek Sawicki representing the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Today we have two very important, but also very exciting projects: one, tabled by the Civic Coalition, in my opinion not controversial and the other, tabled by the Law and Justice Club, over which I would like to lean a little bit more. Cleverly, Mr Grzegorz Puda, who also appeared on behalf of Law and Justice, Mr Marek Suski tried to bring his project mainly to the problem of farm and livestock farming, slipping only and only fragmentedly after the issue of religious, ritual slaughter - hallal, kosher. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, I know that there is such a trend, especially among young people... After all, many rural children are convinced that meat, sausages, sausages are produced in supermarkets, that they do not come from animals, [[Applause]] They're not from breeding, they're actually from the store shelf. Also those who love cats and dogs very much and hold them, sometimes actually under the best conditions, are convinced that meat food comes from the store, not from slaughter and from the suffering of other animals. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have a long memory and a lot of experience, a lot of internship. The fight for animal welfare started in 1993 and 1997. At the end of that term, Mrs Katarzyna Piekarska, then from the Freedom Union, reported a project which banned the cultivation of geese for fat liver and the production of foie gras. Yes. At that time, one important argument against the High House was the question of entering the European Union. The media and politicians have consistently argued that if we do not prohibit this breeding, we will not enter the European Union and we were the second manufacturer in Europe when it comes to the amount of foie gras produced. It turns out that together with us, Hungarians entered the European Union and produce... You can't even in France anymore. Mr Nitras, it is not. France is the first producer of foie gras in Europe and in the world, and politicians, including the Civic Coalition, are eating as a rarity, so please do not mislead the public. [[Applause]] But did something happen that was banned? I am talking about this because we are now saying: bans on the cultivation of fur animals, restrictions on the production of poultry, beef, lamb, because bans on ritual slaughter, and in a moment, my dear people, and it is getting louder and louder, there will be bans on production, bans on livestock farming in the farm system, pigs, dairy cattle. That's what they're after. So I want to make it clear that Polish farmers are indeed on the verge of exhaustion of patience. My fellow countries from Law and Justice, but also from the Civic Coalition and the Left, today's farmers protest is an objection to the elimination of another production branch. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I didn't bother you. I want to make it clear how the situation of Polish farmers has changed over the last 8 years. In August 2012, on average in 4,26, 3,23 were paid for live poultry purchased from farmers. Sheep, August 2012 - 5,77, currently - 4,86. Raphael - 2 thousand, now - 1,6 thousands. zł. As President Kaczyński announced the elimination of ritual slaughter, the price of the bovine live fell by a zloty in literally a few weeks. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we're in a coronavirus crisis. We will need to rebuild the economy and every branch of the Polish economy will be needed for this. And I want to tell you this: today we have an era of actually humanizing animal breeding and I am fully for it. Good. I am fully for it, let us humanize, but I am against the animation of humanity. [[Applause]] Hey, hey. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Law and Justice were fair, this project... What does a gingerbread have to do with a windmill? ...would have proposed two years ago, but in 2017, you withdrew from this project. But they're... Because there was a cycle of two electoral years, four election campaigns. And now, right after the election campaign with this project, you're on the stand because for three years, you won't need the votes of farmers, producers, processors. And I want to say how important this is when it comes to ritual slaughter. When the Constitutional Tribunal mistakenly forbade us from ritual slaughter in Poland in 2013 until 2014, he later withdrew from this ruling, we did not wait passively to close Polish beef, poultry production, we were just looking for solutions. And then we put in a reverse stun system, partial stun. Then in 2014 we managed to restore a normal ritual slaughter system and since 2012, dear country, poultry production in Poland doubled from 1300 thousand. t to more than 2,600 thousand. Right now. This is not just a question of the farms that produce these poultry, but it is also a question of the whole feed industry, it is a question of cereals, corn, wheat producers. This is really a connected vessel system. [[Applause]] If we cut one branch, the other branch will break. That's why I'm in favour of finding positive solutions. I'm sure my coalition club will not vote for the law and justice project in this formula that you have now proposed. But I'm glad you're promising that this will be addressed to the committee. What about ours? And what I'm saying is that when it comes to fur animals, it's really this trend in the world, you have to humanize it, you have to give it up, but you have to give it up civilizedly. You can't just say, for a moment, to entrepreneurs who invested six months ago, we'll have you in deep respect next year. Here you go, a 10-year transition period to put out production or 10 years compensation for lost benefits. 30 even. And then we can talk about consensus on this. [[Applause]] Bravo. However, look for information, as we did then, in 2010, because there was a special international commission for this, what to do with the ritual slaughter and recommendations are included. So talk to the Muslims, to the Jews, and maybe they will agree to another form of slaughter, to a more humanitarian one, and then there will be no restriction of this production. My dears, and one more thing. I'm a farmer, but I'm an economist. The economy of agriculture was learned from Professor Manteuffel, Ferenc and I was taught that three basic factors of development, growth are: work, land, capital, and that prosperity and development come from production, production, because there is added value, and from trade. And Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Jarosław Kaczyński have been trying to prove to us for several years that development and prosperity do not come from manufacturing, but from printing money. [[Applause]] From the Treasury companies. If we reduce production, any production, sooner or later social security benefits will not be viable. So consider all of this and think about which way you're headed. I miss the minister of the environment here today, the minister of agriculture. 'Cause if there's such a disgraceful condition for livestock farming on farms, where's the veterinary inspection? Has your veterinarian been punished for lack of supervision or not? This is the country. Or, like in the case of sunbeds, [[♪ The bell ♪]] in Ostrów Mazowiecka, neither the district doctor nor the voivodship doctor have suffered any punishment? Well, that can't be right. You have tools, you have instruments, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you have tools, you Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u329	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to invite Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, the Confederation's Parliamentary Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u330	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The great venerable Marek Suski said that when people treat animals well, they treat people well. I immediately remembered how Hindus did not harm cows, even masks wore so that no insect would fall into their mouths and die, which did not prevent them from killing half a million Muslims and tens of thousands of Christians, not to mention sacrifices for the goddess Kali. So that's not true at all. [[Applause]] The great honourable messenger Katarzyna Bakerska said that every bill comes with time. I'm afraid he's absolutely right. Soon the time will come for him not to grow chickens in cages, not to grow pigs, not to grow... You kill them, too. Animals don't come from supermarkets, they come from cowsheds and stables after all, do they? There will be a time when we have recently learned that plants also feel that it will soon be possible to eat only fruit, honey and whatever else... Hummus. The sun. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's a question of whether we belong to the civilization that created what it created also by killing animals... He's murdering... ...thanks to the fact that the children were learning order and systematicity in the training of animals that also trained in their homes, or that we would be as nice Elyami as in the famous Wells novel, the Elyami who are being murdered by others, and themselves being kind, polite, sympathetic. You just see, Madam, not everyone is like us and will come, e.g. Muslims who can kill. During confirmation, a Muslim must kill, in remembrance of Isaac's sacrifice, with the sword of a lamb. And these people will kill us if our people can't kill. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] If we don't kill the pig, they'll kill us. That's logic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u331	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Circle of the Confederation of Members. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u332	Dear Marshal, Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, First of all, I would like to point out that this debate was designed in such a way that large clubs granted each other 10 minutes and the Confederation 5 minutes. Apparently, the House is afraid of arguing the only force that consistently and fully defends Polish farmers, [[Applause]] defends Polish breeders, defends economic freedom and defends the constitution. I'm looking left here. And killing animals. Yes, and killing animals, killing animals, which is ethical, which is an ethical way of living, creating jobs, earning against the forgery of Christian ethics, ethics on which our civilization is built, forgery made by the PiS to a partnership with the Left and left wing of the Civic Platform. I congratulate those Members who maintain common sense in all this confusion. I submit a motion on behalf of the Confederate circle to reject this rotten, harmful, anti-Polish, anti-freedom, anti-agricultural, anti-breeding rotten at first reading. Antichristian. I'm handing this over, Marshal... Thank you very much. I, uh... ...and I wish to use the short minute I have to inform the Sejm that this project... Two minutes. ...not only does it concern leashes, chains or fur animals, to which the debaters here want to reduce this bill. This project concerns the whole meat market. Today, when I spoke to representatives of the industry, I learned that foreign contractors had already stopped buying meat from Poland, anticipating the decline in meat prices. 40% exports in the poultry sector, in the beef sector It's a ritual slaughter. This demand will be served by other countries. If we do not handle this demand, we will have oversupply and further collapse of meat prices in the internal market. At the moment, anyone who is a little interested in the meat market knows that because of the epidemic there has been a drop in orders, and because of the drop in orders, prices and profitability of production have fallen. No, no, no, no, This project will kill Polish breedings at the moment they were in crisis. The whole industry is in shock. It is only now that the largest Polish companies are creating crisis headquarters, which are trying to reach the Prime Minister's firm, PiS, the government, Members who have a reasonable opinion, and those with whom they can talk. That's Janusz Korwin-Mikke. Come to your senses. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u333	Thank you, sir. In the second part of the confederate circle, Mr Michał Urbaniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have a great festival of hypocrisy here. On the one hand, we have people who talk about empathy, say: watch over animals, let's take care of their well-being - great, yes, let's take care of animals, that's important - but on the other hand you also forget, for example. About the dramas of women who couldn't give birth because they didn't, right? We still have the abortion bill in the Sejm, we have it in the freezer... Ha, ha, ha! ...and today we're gonna talk about whether animals can be killed ritually or not. On the other hand, the question is that you simply want to slaughter one of the sectors of the Polish economy. Come to your senses. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u335	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I am closing the list of Members wishing to ask a question. I'm asking you a question. The first question is asked by Mrs Anita Sowińska, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u336	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This law is needed and long-awaited, not only when it comes to the ban on the breeding of fur animals, but also because of the improvement of the living conditions of dogs and cats in animal shelters. However, in order for this law to be effective, local authorities must be prepared to assume responsibility for private shelters. Therefore, I have two questions. Will local governments receive special grants to change cages with 6 m The next question is different. The Left supports this project because we are responsible politicians and show good will. Good projects must be supported regardless of who has submitted them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I have a question for President Kaczyński: Will you support the draft amendment of the Act - Water Law, which allows the renaturization of rivers? The project was submitted by the Left... Thank you very much. ...and it is long awaited because of drought... Thank you, Member. Thank you very much, Member. The next question will be... ...whose consequences will be catastrophic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u337	...Mrs Dorota Sunday, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u338	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I would like to say: Minister of Agriculture, but there is no Minister of Agriculture. High Izbo! Enough division. The President, presenting this bill, said: this is a bill that all good people will support. Well, High Izbo, Mr President, ministers, I say I check. I hope this bill is supported by all members of the PiS. I'm saying I'm checking. I hope you will support the amendments which, apart from the ban, also say that we will pay compensation to all those who lose their jobs. I hope you will support the amendments that say that not permanently in chains - there are no chains, there are pens. [[Applause]] I hope you will support all these amendments that say that there are no earrings at all. I hope you support the chip amendment that wasn't part of your project... Yes? ...and it is an essential issue to protect animals from homelessness. But not people. I hope you will finally support the amendments, [[♪ The bell ♪]] who talk about improving the welfare of animals and who say that people who have ceased to have their activities have the right to compensation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u339	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, the Left Club. I can't see. Then Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u340	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With full conviction, I want to say that this bill is a bold step in the right direction, which is why I'm signing all my hands under it. Only if she is really going to prevent the suffering of fur animals, then why should breaking the ban on breeding be just a misdemeanor, and people who will illegally keep animals under these terrible conditions will be threatened with a fine on general terms, i.e. only up to 5 thousand. Evil? Illegal breeding of fur animals should be classified as a criminal offence and that is what I call for. Otherwise, business will go underground, farm owners will pay little fines, and animals will continue to suffer as they suffered. And this, Mr Kaczyński, we wouldn't want to, would we? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bloodthirsty Jachira. Down with Kaczyński's supporters.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u341	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u342	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're gonna make a lot of adjustments. It's gonna be an adjustment, a so-called test. the good man President Kaczyński was talking about. One amendment refers to the ban on horses on the way to the Sea Eye. I think it's about time this barbaric thing ended, so that the horses wouldn't just die in front of us. I think it's the only national park where horses are dying right in front of us. You don't know what you're talking about. Down with the races on the Servant. It's a test for a good man. This question I ask President Kaczyński whether he wants to be good, as he says, and he will support the animal protection project in the case of these horses, or he will treat it selectively and he will support the Tatra National Park, which in his statement and in reply claims that he does not know what it is all about. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] No more canaries in cages. Release the canaries.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u343	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u344	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Act under procedure provides for the establishment of an Animal Affairs Council to act with the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. The task of the council is to analyse and monitor the state of animal protection, as well as to focus on the functioning of animal shelters, which is actually the responsibility of local authorities at the moment. Is there going to be another organ, another body that will oversee the local government? It's one thing. The Council will certainly also generate some costs. Has anyone calculated the cost of administrative services, the cost of the members of the bureau of this council? Finally, what is the point of setting up the Animal Affairs Council, since Minister Ardanowski appointed a representative on 26 June 2020. animal protection? Didn't Minister Ardanowski's project work out? [[♪ The bell ♪]] There is also a question about the mutual powers of the representative and the Animal Council. Are we gonna double again, triple the various organs and services? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u345	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club. Prison anglers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u346	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about the project submitted by the Law and Justice Club, a rather detailed question: Why the definition of a racial dog in your project has not been constructed in parallel to the definition of a cat, where the association of the Union of Polish Felinology was included as an entity entitled to register cats? Why is only one private association indicated in the case of dogs? Is this a mistake? If so, it is important for two reasons. Firstly, it introduces a monopoly on one organisation, and secondly, it deprives the uniformed service of access to service dogs so far. This problem was already pointed out in the previous term, when the same project was, unfortunately, unsuccessfully examined. Was it a mistake, and if so, why was it repeated this time? Why isn't the union of the Union of Polish Felinology included in this case as well? What was the key to selecting associations in the definition of dogs and cats presented by you. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Hitler loved Blondie's bitch.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u347	Thank you very much. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u348	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For starters, let me say that there is no doubt that I will support any solution that improves the welfare of animals. But I have a question for the author of the great five Kaczyński: What really is behind this? What are the real intentions of this project? Because I find it hard to believe that someone who has been ruthlessly destroying Poland for 5 years, does not sympathize with children with disabilities, people with disabilities, teachers, or doctors, absolutely no one, suddenly turns out to be very sensitive and loves animals. Everyone's asking and speculating. Some people already know what's really behind that big five. I'm asking the President to state his true intentions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u349	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u350	Mrs. Marshal! I would like to present to the House a few facts, some truths about the fur industry. You treat retailers like oligarchs. You're thinking of breeding animals for fur, that they're big commercial networks, and they're just three meat shops. That's the truth, that's the facts of this industry. Today, in Poland, only 2 000 people work from this industry, including the industry. persons and only 850 persons pay social security contributions, ZUS contributions. PIT revenue from the whole sector in 2019 amounted to only PLN 11 million, while the Polish state lost as much as PLN 27 million on VAT from the whole sector, because on the skin is reduced, only a 3-percent VAT rate. But in any civilized country, even these three meat boxes, these meat shops, can't be removed just because in the meantime the state policy (the bell) has changed in this case. That is why I wanted to ask you clearly and ask for support for those farmers who will change. I wanted to ask... Thank you, Member. ...if you don't leave them on the pavement. Will you make up for their losses in a European, civilised way? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u351	Thank you, Member. Mr Norbert Kaczmarczyk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u352	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the applicant whether he consulted this project with farmers, i.e. interested farmers. [[Applause]] I'm a farmer, I grew up in the country, I grew up growing up, and I know that farmers love animals. In order for the animal to grow so that the animal can ripen, and also so that the farmer can maintain his family, the farmer must love that animal. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a test. This is a test, whether the people who trusted us can count on us, if they can count on the Minister of Agriculture, or if they can count on President Andrzej Duda. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! We tabled amendments to this law at second reading as Solidarna Polska together with the Agreement. In this situation, I recommend... Like the other one, how's the first one? You're just gonna fold. At second reading, we will make amendments. At this point, I recommend, [[♪ The bell ♪]] to vote against this draft law at first reading. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u353	Thank you, sir. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! The world's changing. In the 21st century practically nowhere in the world is human trafficking allowed. Women have voting rights everywhere. That's the result. Watch your mouth, really. Moreover, you no longer use small, 8-year-old, 10-year-old children to work in a mine or in a chimney industry. Therefore, it is high time to take care of animal rights as well, because this is a civilization dimension. [[Game in the O.R.]] The fur industry is an archaic, cruel and unstoppable industry today. We no longer need fur to dress warm for the winter, so it is time to end the suffering of animals. It is high time to understand that this industry is neither an important industry nor an impact on the quality of Polish life. That is why the Civic Coalition will support this bill. And just such a question: Will not this time lack the courage of Law and Justice? ♪ Don't you freeze ♪ [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill, as in the previous term? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u355	Thank you, Member. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet and move the conversations to the colloquials. Let's respect each other. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u356	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a pretty good bill, but it could be really good. If you're talking about love for animals, let's make this love really real. You write that temporary keeping of pets trapped is permitted. What do you mean, temporary? Will it be 1 hour, 2 hours, 12 hours or 23 hours a day? Isn't it better not to keep pets trapped at all? Is it the same or is it not better to prohibit the use of earrings in animals at all? I also have a question: What is the government's work on solutions to create asylum for animals? These will be asylums for both evicted and confiscated animals, as well as for animals that will eventually be sent from circuses to such places. Forbid horses from being forged. If we eliminate the circuses, we'll have to do something about the animals. What does it look like to work on legal solutions for asylum? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u357	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u358	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! For the last 30 years Polish farmers have worked very hard to make Poland a world leader in poultry farming. When they achieved this goal, the youth leader of the PiS came out at the press conference and said: no more business. The way PiS communicates with farmers on this bill is below criticism, [[Applause]] Especially given the fact that most of these people have won the election. I believe that this law, even though it is very difficult, is possible to pass over divisions. You just have to make concessions, you have to compromise. We need to talk. But for that, you have to have good will and style. And your style was described in the letter yesterday by Minister Krzysztof Ardanowski. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u359	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u360	High Izbo! For several years in public opinion polls Poles and Poles have said that they are for banning animal breeding for fur. Yet politicians did not have the courage to stand clearly on the side of animals. Enough courage to record videos, enough courage to sometimes warm the image with a cat's atlas. Today the Polish society says: I check. This decision may be a historic decision, because we here have a chance to enroll on history cards as those who are not indifferent to the suffering of animals. And every year of procrastinating is another million animals suffering from farms. Today we're actually saying, "I'm checking." And we already know today that this part of the room is completely divided. So what's really going on? Do we want to work on this project... We don't want to. Do we want to warm up the CEO's image? Mr... And today, in the vote, we will also decide that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u361	Thank you, sir. Mr Przemysław Drabek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u362	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! High Seym! Due to a number of divergent information about the amount of income, very high revenues generated to the Treasury by the so-called. I have a specific question about the fur industry: How high are the revenues to the state budget generated by this industry? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u363	Thank you very much. Mr Nitras with a formal request. Please, sir, just...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u364	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! We are in a really serious debate and I would like to thank most parliamentarians for the level of this debate. But we, sitting in the benches, are forced to listen to Mr Korwin-Mikke's comments, which do not fit into any standards... Look who's talking. ...a democratic parliamentary debate. We just heard... Don't interrupt me, Mr Winnicki. Squeaky. We have just heard the words to the Members of the Civic Coalition when Mr Korwin-Mikke said that... Squeaky. ...the debate on animal rights is only due to the fact that women were once granted voting rights, and that is the result. And then he said women are only good for harem. Everybody heard that. Your words show that you're just being a jerk... Disgraceful! ...and you should not be in this House. I want him out of the courtroom. And I would like to inform you that I will make a request to the Committee on the Ethics of the European Union to punish you, because what you are doing is embarrassing the House and preventing us from discussing serious matters. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! Shame! Thank you, sir. But now... A man who thus addresses women gives himself the worst witness possible. Mr... Shame you're a man. Apologize to us. Apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u365	Mr President, you have abused the formal proposal. On the other hand, if such words really have been said, and I will personally check it out in the transcript, it is outrageous and it should clearly go to the ethics committee. Apologize. Please, Mr Marcin Porzucek, Law and Justice. But in what mode, sir? Ad vocem. Corrigendum. Maybe he wants to apologize. Are you Marcin Porzucek? I can't see. What was it now? Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u366	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Not further than on the last Saturday in Bralin, in the Kępin County in Wielkopolska, Prime Minister Morawiecki, in the assistance of many Members of Greater Poland - Mr Mosiński was, Mr Kaleta - he said that the issues of Polish farmers are a right state. I don't know whose name Prime Minister Morawiecki said it on. I see it's not on behalf of... See, Christopher, you didn't check. ... Minister of Agriculture of Mr Ardanowski. We also conclude from Mr Kaczmarczyk's words that he certainly did not say this on behalf of Solidarna Polska. I would like to see Prime Minister Morawiecki leave today with this large group of parliamentarians and repeat today, on the occasion of proceding this law, protesting farmers, that agricultural matters are a right state, and that these words should also be translated into action by sending this bad law where it belongs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u367	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Warwas, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u368	Thank you. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Around the draft amendment of the Animal Protection Act there is a heated discussion, various arguments arise, among others. the argument that the elimination of fur farms would result in an increase in the prices of meat in shops. The point is that this industry manages, among others. wastes arising from the production of meat. Minister, I would like to ask you: Does the operation of the mink farm have an impact on the cost of meat in Poland and on the density of farms in Poland? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u369	Thank you, sir. Ms Agnieszka Soin, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u370	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the rapporteur, which is to supplement his report with information on the legal arrangements for the breeding of fur animals in other countries and what social consequences... But which bill, which bill? ...will shut these farms down. Thank you very much. But which project, because there are two?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u371	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u372	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There are many recordings of fur animals on the Internet, and it is not just such a nice, nice recording by Mr Bosak, but there are much more dramatic, drastic recordings. I wanted to ask you a question. This bill provides for far-reaching steps which will result in the eradication of fur farms. I would therefore like to ask the question: Wouldn't it be better to do what farmers are asking - just the records that will improve the welfare of these animals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u373	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u374	God bless you! As you may remember, at least some of you, Emperor Caligula wore with the intention of introducing his favorite horse Incitatus to the Senate as a consul. I think that some of you are close to such concepts of the system, because here, in fact, there are issues of the system, not just the fate of one or the other industry. On the other hand, it is not only about fur producers, but also about export of Polish meat. The issue is broader, it is about the state's attitude towards property, freedom of management, entrepreneurship, it is about these matters. And the state goes to this with a revolutionary project and introduces your worker-boy inspections here resurrected under the green banner (the bell), with the power to lay down judgments and launch a police-punishment procedure. Thank you very much, sir. So it's deeper, more serious. The question is, after this term of office, will anyone else vote for the Law and Justice except for the cowards? [[Applause]] Confessors of the Podkarpacie Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u375	Thank you, sir. Mr Edward Sulphur, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u376	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! For some time now, I must say, we have been observing the phenomenon of animal personalization in the Seym. The result of this action is that our languages have actually got mixed up. [[Applause]] In the animal world - as a village man I can say - only one creature has the quality of birth. They're bees. Today we no longer say that the pig has asked, the goat has foaled or the kitten has cornered. All animals are born. And with this confusion of languages, unfortunately, we have today's effect of discussion, [[Applause]] which leads to the fact that suddenly in the article. 7 We give the right to environmental organizations... We're not saying you're a nobility animal. We're saying you're a murderer. ...we give powers to environmental organisations, people who are completely unprepared to enter any farm. [[Applause]] I'd like to ask if that's really the intention of these people to enter any farm, [[♪ The bell ♪]] and do we not see the dangers for our agriculture in this regard. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u377	Thank you, sir. Mrs Joanna Lichocka, Law and Justice. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh... He's coming. First time. Show me a rude gesture. Ladies and gentlemen, I would really like to ask you to be serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u378	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is mentioned here that this Animal Protection Act hits Polish farmers. I would like to ask you if the tradition of Polish agriculture is to grow 2 ha, 3 ha 50,000. animals in cages. No, this is not a tradition of Polish agriculture. Don't wipe it off, furry industry, animal skin industry... You will read this law to the end, Mrs Bauer. ...that they're farmers. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] These are businessmen, cruel businessmen who are quick profit. You haven't read it. You don't know what you're talking about. Polish farmers treat their animals from a welfare point of view. Here someone has already said that Polish farmers care about the animals they grow, and it is not a large industrial mink farm. We are also dealing with a phenomenon that is very socially burdensome. I had a lot, as a Member from southern Wielkopolska, to intervene, to ask for intervention, not to allow another farm (the Bell) to intervene. I would like to ask what is the social nuisance of this industry, what is the scale, how many thousands of villagers and small towns suffer from the neighbourhood of these businesses, not agriculture. Thank you. But you have leather shoes, right? You don't happen to have leather shoes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u379	Thank you, Member. The last question will be asked by Adrian Zandberg, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u380	High Izbo! Skinning minks is a cruel thing that we should be done with by now. The same applies to making money on inhumane slaughter. Despite what Mr. Bosak is dreaming, Poles are not barbarians. And I am very pleased that we have begun to work on this bill. Glory to those who led them to it. I have no doubt about how to vote on this. Of course, there are some millionaires protesting now who have made money out of animal cruelty. And protest their political puppets there, from brown benches. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Ooh... But contrary to what they say, losing the breeding to fur will not be of significant economic importance... What about the skin? ...because this is the end-of-life business. But one thing has to be done. There are not many people working there, but there is a need to take care of those workers who have been employed there so far. Make sure they find another job, one that's not based on animal abuse and cruelty against them. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that is my question and my suggestion to the authors of this project. Are you considering such a support programme for employees in this industry just to help them reclassify? I think it's important. Thank you, sir, time is up. I think it's important to cut through these cases and throw away these regrettable arguments from the brown benches. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u381	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Formal conclusion. Formal conclusion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u382	If we are already using such squealing here, then we would also like to punish Mr Zandberg for these insults, for this language of hatred, and for these brown names from the Red Communist. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]] Ha, ha, ha! What kind of communist, green?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u383	There's an ethics committee, very good. On behalf of the government, you will answer the questions raised by Minister Michał Dworczyk, Head of the Office of the Prime Minister. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome. And where is the Minister of Agriculture? Where's the Minister of Agriculture? High Izbo, please be serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u384	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Where's Christopher? We're sorry for your loss. Prime Minister Gliński is in the O.R., I'm responding. Oh, I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The Parliamentary bill amending the Animal Protection Act and certain other laws provides for solutions aimed at strengthening the legal protection of animals, in particular by introducing several prohibitions which will have humanitarian effects. It will be forbidden to keep pets trapped permanently and to use earrings. The organisation and performance of circuses involving animals and the use of animals for entertainment purposes will be prohibited. The breeding of fur animals raised to obtain fur will be prohibited. In short, the aim pursued by the legislator is primarily to ensure better treatment of animals, to increase the control of local authorities and the social factor over the provision of shelters for homeless animals, to strengthen the effectiveness of checks on compliance with animal protection rules by hosts by increasing the frequency of such checks. All this means that in the assessment of the Council of Ministers, the changes proposed in the project should be considered justified. As a result, the Council of Ministers recommends the adoption of a draft law. High Izbo! There have been some questions to the government, and I've actually written down two questions. The first was the amount of revenue from the fur industry to the budget, i.e. a government of about PLN 11 million from the PIT tax. What about poultry? Regarding the impact of mink farm on the price of meat in Poland, because such a question has also been asked, this is an impact within the limits of statistical error. Thank you very much, Marshal and the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u385	Thank you very much, Minister. On behalf of the applicants, Mr Grzegorz Puda will answer the questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u386	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Many questions have been asked, most often concerning conjecture, knowledge, questions that were very often not supported by any research or data. On behalf of the applicants, I would like to address those questions which concern Members of the applicants because I am their representative. As far as data are concerned, it is worth noting that 73% society and in rural areas - 72% the public supports the draft Animal Protection Act. If you say that we are acting against the countryside, then you have to ask another question, in whose interest you are acting, colleagues from the Confederation, if you really are connected... Polish farmers. But what farmers? ...with animal production, with the breeding of fur animals in Poland, even if we mention your issues, there are about 2 000. Which is not true, because there are 846 people reported in the CSO, and there are many more people injured, ladies and gentlemen. Why didn't you have the courage to go to the farmers today? In Poland in the last few years we have had e.g. 140 documented protests against fur farms. This means, even assuming that in each of these towns there are 100, 200 people, that we have at least 2,8 thousand, 3 000, several thousand people injured by the activity of the farm. And these are real farmers. Lie! These farms are located in rural areas, in small towns where people grow grain, where people have pigs, where people produce animals, but the kind of activity you are fighting for, and you visit your colleagues, is not one of those that the Polish village supports. [[Applause]] Polish farmers do not support this type of activity. And pigs don't smell? With regard to the Animal Council, honourable Member, we have our thoughts. We mean that every council, every body that creates more than one person, will certainly be more accessible, but it will also be able to give better feedback to its projects than a 1-, 2-person group. We will therefore propose that this Council be set up and that it be able to give an opinion on what is going on and that once a year the High Chamber present a project and information on animal welfare in Poland. She has no rights. As for the participants in the Council's work, because there was a question of funding, all the participants in the Council will work socially. From this information we're getting, and from these talks with the farmers, it appears that those willing do not do it for money, unlike fur-breeding animals. They just want to help animals. As far as the information on budget revenue is concerned, the Minister has already mentioned it, but it is worth mentioning two elements. Firstly, the fur industry is responsible for 0,0008 GDP, let me repeat: 0.0008 GDP. It is actually a niche industry that has no impact on the Polish economy. ...and ritual for how much? As far as Polish exports are concerned, this is 0.0016. And when it comes to participation in public finances, taxes, contributions, it's 0,00014. You're manipulating data. These are, ladies and gentlemen, so small amounts, so small quantities, so small numbers that it is difficult to discuss how this affects the Polish economy. What does that have to do with anything? The question was whether we consulted with Polish farmers. Yes, ladies and gentlemen... Is it a piss stand that the little ones can be destroyed? Mr Bosak, I ask you to remain calm. Ladies and gentlemen, yes, we have consulted farmers, but not those who are pseudo-farmers, who are businessmen, but those who are injured by these businessmen and who suffer from fetor, insects, environmental pollution, groundwater. Yeah, they were consulted, and we have a lot of support for them. Then why are they protesting? Are there legal solutions in other countries? As it happens, we are one of the last countries to adopt such legislation. All of Europe, I could read to you... Lie! ...have already adopted such solutions. Which one of you said it was a lie? Me. Christopher Bosak. Mr. Bosak recently spoke at the conference about ritual slaughter of poultry. Ladies and gentlemen: Austria - ban on animal breeding in order to obtain fur from them. Belgium, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Macedonia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Sweden and Switzerland (The Bell) are countries that are still working or have already banned fur animals. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, because we have limited time, I would like to tell you that we are really voting on this right now... For the first time, we have a trans-political consensus on the draft Animal Protection Act as regards the scope of livestock farming and others referred to in the proposed law. Where's the left and where's the right. In fact, this is a great opportunity to show Europe that we are a modern country that we do not have to do this. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u387	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Katarzyna Piekarska, on behalf of the applicants for the print project No 378.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u388	Mrs. Marshal! I'm glad to see your marshal in good health. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that, I hope, we will be able to gather such a majority in our parliament to improve the fate of the smaller brothers. I am particularly pleased with this as a person who very many years ago - it was the '90s. - filed a draft of the first Animal Protection Act, which replaced the President's Decree of the 20s. All I've got is a request from PiS, folks, don't back off. These are really good solutions, and I hope you have enough determination to accept them. I'm sure you can count on the coalition's voice. Thank you very much and I'll say it again: I'm really hot on my thumbs. One more sentence for Mr. Sawicki. Mr. Marek Sawicki reminded me that one day I actually applied for a record to take the goose and ducks to fatten their livers. So? I remember, Mr Mark, what happened that day. There were exactly the same arguments as today that it would be the absolute end. Polish poultry that thousands of people will lose their jobs. So? That's not what happened. The Polish poultry industry is holding up well. I'll tell you, it's gonna be exactly the same now. Until you... the bill... I hope that these projects will gain support in the Polish Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u389	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Parliament's draft law amending the Animal Protection Act No 378 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! If there's an objection, we'll vote on it in the voting block. You can always count on Grzegorz. When's that? With regard to the proposal for rejection at first reading of the draft law in print No 597, we will also proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 19. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 57 hrs. 19 min 10]] I'm reopening the session. Since we are before the votes, we are, of course, checking the quorum. I would like to ask Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. 407 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. We continue to consider items 8 and 9 of the agenda: In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in print at first reading 597, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in print 597 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 420 Members voted. 63 for, 339 against, 18 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus referred this draft law to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development for consideration. In view of the proposal to refer the draft law from print No 378 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, opposition has been raised. We will settle this matter in the vote. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal of the Bureau of the Sejm, and therefore, in favour of submitting the draft legislation from print to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? A little serious, ladies and gentlemen, a little serious. This is a terrible betrayal. 420 Members voted. 404 - for, 7 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm accepted the offer. I propose that the Sejm be based on the article. 39 (1) (a) 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have set a time limit for the submission of a report to the committee on draft laws in print Nos 597 and 378 to be examined at the current meeting of the Sejm. If I don't hear any objection... Objection. Allow me to read the rule, sir. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. I hear an objection. We will therefore proceed to the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to set a time limit for the committee to present a report enabling it to be discussed at this session of the Sejm will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Stop yelling. Or what? Because this is the Seym, not the pigsty. Ooh... Will you be able to keep the canaries in a cage? Oh... Where's the Minister of Agriculture? 420 Members voted. 337 - for, 72 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. That's where we ended the vote. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation signed in Warsaw on 15 August 2020 (prints No. 573 and 602). I ask Mr Michael Jacha to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u390	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Prime Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government bill on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on enhanced defence cooperation signed in Warsaw on 15 August 2020, print No 573. Ladies and gentlemen! Until five years ago, most politicians, not only in Poland, absolutely did not believe that allies would be stationed in our region. Today in our country we have almost 5.5 thousand. soldiers from the United States and other divisions of our allies. Despite the strategic nature of relations with the United States of America, however, a framework bilateral agreement on full defence cooperation has not yet been concluded. The issue of the status of allied forces of the United States in Poland is described in the 2009 agreement. However, during these 10 years the strategic situation in our region of Europe has completely changed, especially the situation of the U.S. troops in Poland. After 10 years of the 2009 agreement, the Polish side also gained experience and has proposals which could facilitate further cooperation with the US and improve the functioning of the US troops in Poland. This presence will therefore directly contribute to increasing the level of deterrent and defence of Poland and the entire eastern NATO flank, will benefit the military presence of other NATO members in Poland and the interoperability of the Armed Forces of the Republic with US troops and other NATO members. In the perspective of multiple times, this is the benefits for Poland in terms of security and defence, which will naturally result from the presence of the United States military in our country. It is worth noting that the experience of other countries in which American troops are stationed makes it possible to ensure that local communities also benefit economically from the presence of the American army in their region. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent it on 26 August. the above draft law to the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. The National Defence Commission and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, following their first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 15 September 2020, request the High Sejm to adopt draft Law No 573 without amendments. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u391	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. With a formal application. In what mode? In the middle of an article... Good. Do you have this application in writing? Request for a change in the way the discussion is conducted. You have this motion in writing, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u392	Formal request to change the way the discussion is conducted. Change the way to a fair one. There are no conditions for discussing such an important issue for the security and sovereignty of the Polish state. Thank you very much. Mr Jach spoke at the accompaniment of the chatter... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u393	Thank you very much, sir. It was your club that led the way in obstructing the proceedings at the previous point, so a little humility. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Piotr Kalet will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u394	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, safety, security of our country, safety of our homeland. It's an invaluable value that can't be converted into amounts, into some kind of addiction. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating something that seems to be obvious to the majority of the High House, but as it turns out, not necessarily. I'm guessing these things will be written up in a minute. We will also be able to know the opinion of those for whom security is not at the moment the most important value, for the sovereignty of our homeland does not constitute it for them. Ladies and gentlemen, these are important matters. It is important that we, as Poles, feel safe in our homeland, so that we can develop safely and that we can reach such a ceiling calmly, such a possibility, when security can also be achieved on our own. But it takes time, it takes years, it also requires financial resources. For now, as part of our alliance with the greatest power in the world, we can ensure this security now through the increased presence of American troops in our country, as well as in some way through the possession of modern equipment that the Polish army is constantly gaining. This arsenal is getting bigger, it's going in the right direction. It is therefore probably to be welcomed that, during the committee meeting on 15 September, we had an opportunity to reach a consensus, because, with one exception, the agreement to ratify this agreement was taken almost unanimously, unanimously. That's a good sign. It is a good sign that our cooperation with the world's greatest power, as I have already said, the United States, will be moving in the right direction. And what happens, ladies and gentlemen, beyond our eastern border, cannot be indifferent and cannot be left without the reaction of the state authorities, the Minister of National Defence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there can be nothing else here. The decision of the Law and Justice Club in the interests of our homeland, in the interests of the security of our citizens, may be one and with real pleasure on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice I recommend to the High House that this resolution, this bill, this ratification be adopted. Marshal, thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u395	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u396	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Cooperation with the United States is in the interest of the Republic of Poland, and defence cooperation is even one of the strategic interests of our homeland. And such cooperation was initiated by the government of the Civic Platform - the Polish People's Party. The result of this cooperation is the first agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America on the status of the armed forces of the United States of America in the territory of the Republic of Poland of December 2009, I stress from December. That means it was concluded when we had an aggressor on the eastern flank who invaded Georgia. And the fact that this was a good agreement is borne out by the fact that my previous speaker, the rapporteur of the committee, was just mentioned, that in the territory of the Republic of Poland there are currently 5.5 thousand stationed today. American soldiers. That means it was a good deal. This is also confirmed by the agreement of 15 July, which is an implementing agreement to this original agreement. Is the agreement that the government is presenting to the Sejm of the Republic better today? We're having second thoughts. Firstly, because it does not specify all the costs that will be charged to the Polish party. We only know because yesterday the Minister at the committee meeting said: 500 million will be the costs associated with aprovisation, with the supply of the American side in the Republic of Poland. But there will also be investment costs. You haven't answered that question. We're expecting an answer today. Is this a better deal? No. Because the original agreement provided that the relevant authorities of the Republic of Poland, pursuant to the article of the NATO Agreement, would kindly and promptly consider the requests of the U.S. military authorities to waive jurisdiction. And the new agreement provides for the waiver of priority of the Republic of Poland, which is directly in the agreement. What does that mean? That means it's a deterioration in the original text of the contract. And we're looking forward to explaining how it happened (the bell) that the Minister agreed to surrender his jurisdiction directly. And one more thing. Why was there no consultation with the opposition on this new agreement? Why didn't the president call the National Security Council, [[Applause]] to evaluate this agreement on the part of the opposition. Mr... Perhaps then it would not be necessary to give in and the original provisions of the 2009 agreement would remain. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u397	Thank you very much. The position of the Left Club will be presented to the High House by Maciej Gdula. You're welcome. No, Mr Andrzej Rozenek. I don't know why it's here, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u398	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Times are difficult, so it is hardly surprising that the government is looking for support, support in defence and is looking for more troops in our territory. Unfortunately, such a search seems a little desperate. We had time when one of the ministers said we were blowing Americans, mercy, sorry. It seems that this time has not passed, but has been creatively developed by the current government. This deal is one-sided. This agreement is petencka, Poland is a pettent. In fact, sometimes I wonder if it would be easier to rent Black Waters, maybe it would be cheaper. The defence of Poland cannot be based solely on the presence of foreign troops. The defence of Poland must be based on the presence of our troops, on the strength of the Polish army. It would be a sin not to mention here about 1939, then very much believed in alliances and that someone would come to help us. And then a lot of strategic mistakes were made, which ended with the fact that Polish soldiers died in vain in 1939, driven by the Wehrmacht. Of course, alliances are needed, of course the presence of American troops contributes in some way to increasing the security of Poland. And, of course, at that time It's a step in the right direction. But this deal is very bad. Minister, you can't do that. We must have our own honor and we must respect the Polish state and we must conclude agreements in a partnership manner, not on our knees. As a curiosity, let me tell you one thing. In the times of the Polish People's Republic, the presence of Soviet troops in Poland was also described in the agreement and this agreement, if it is treated literally, was far more partner than the one that this government signed today. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. It's outrageous. After all... U.S. troops to Poland. This is an outrage. You're right, Minister. This is an outrage. What you're saying is a scandal. And now why are you so panicked about the presence of foreign troops? What you're saying is a scandal. The Soviet troops were a invader. You are seeking this because you have failed Poland's defence over the last five years. What new equipment did the Polish army receive in these five years? I'll tell you what it is. You threw the helicopter program in the trash for the Polish army. You have fired the reinforcement of the Polish Navy, the Polish anti-aircraft defense, the Polish missile defence. You haven't done anything at all. On paper you bought an F-35, which is still gone and will not be, because this is of course a song of the future, because such orders do not happen at hand. You threw what was well done in the trash. What you could've done was ruined. And now you're running for help to the Americans and begging them to come here and back us up because we're helpless. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the result. Law and Justice policy. You have weakened the Polish army, and now you are begging the Americans for help. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u399	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Szramka, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The state of the Polish army is what we all see, which is why we need alliances for the moment. I guess in the near future, and maybe in the future, we'll also be very dependent on them. Therefore, it is no wonder that we sign such agreements. On the other hand, if we sign them, it would be worthwhile for us, as my previous speakers have said, to sign them on more partner terms, because I think that this agreement is at least hollow, at least imprecise. It could be constructed much more favorably for the Polish State and the Polish Army. I understand that we need Americans to buy equipment from them, but if this cooperation is so binding, we should also expect much more from the American side. My previous speakers have already made some critical arguments about this agreement, and many words were made at yesterday's meeting of the National Defence Committee. We probably won't change that much anymore, but I encourage us to build such contracts more precisely in the future so that they are not harmful to us in any way. I suspect you'll hear a lot more critical voices from the Confederate Minister, which is why I will finish my speech. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u401	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u402	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the joint meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and National Defence, we heard a lot of ideological clichés, and we didn't have a lot of rhetoric, so let's take a look at what the agreement put forward for ratification means in practice. Firstly, it is about the full financing by the Polish side of American infrastructure, the current functioning of American soldiers, civilian personnel, their families, and even contract staff, which also includes employees. At the request of the Americans, Poland will cover even the cost of food, export of death, media, 75% the cost of fuel and the disposal of medical waste. We pay for all existential costs and the operation of bases. This agreement also includes giving representatives of foreign armed forces far-reaching effective immunity to the Polish judicial authorities and wide competences in the field of executive power and administration in the Polish territory. If we consider an art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, which concerns the waiver of countersignal rights, this agreement means a deterioration in relation to the previous agreement of 2009. So what's the next deal for? We need to defend good Polish-American relations against salonization, so we do not support such a badly negotiated agreement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u403	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u404	Bringing the Teutonic Knights to Poland 2.0. At that time, in the 13th century, they were also supposed to strengthen the eastern flank. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I belong to a generation that remembers the departure of the last echelons of the northern Red Army army group, and I did not suppose that I would live to see the times in which you would force a foreign soldier, who did not take an oath on the loyalty of the Republic of Poland and will not submit it, will become a dogma of Polish politics from left to right, that in this PO-PiS alliance you will be pushing - although you are making various criticisms here, but, after all, Mr. This is a terrible moment, this is not a day of triumph. The Minister of Defense was willing to lie, just lie, at the defence committee meeting, without referring to... Please respond. That's right, lie. Please refer to the minutes of this sitting. Of course. [[♪ The bell ♪]] No. a way of supporting this agreement. Thank you very much, sir. Time's up, thank you. You've extended my predecessors' speaking time. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u405	No, I didn't. Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get to the questions. I'll see you in the questions. I am closing the list of Members wishing to ask a question. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. Mr Maciej Gdula, the Left Club, will be the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u406	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! But there is one fundamental difference between the Teutonic Knights and the U.S. Army. The Teutonic Knights built their own castles, and we'll pay for the U.S. bases from our own pockets. And that's something I want to ask the Minister. Are you sure you're alone? It's said that base costs will be $2 billion. This is about what it costs to pay for all Polish soldiers for a year. I fear that there will be no control over these expenses, because these are estimates. So we're gonna pay a lot, but we don't know who's gonna control it, who's gonna be responsible. I'm seriously asking the Minister. Don't be afraid. I'm just scared. I'm scared of ventilators, Minister. I'm afraid we'll be reminiscent of the ventilators as reasonable expenses. [[Applause]] There's an American joke like the general's going to inspect the submarine. Suddenly they show him a toilet seat that costs $800. And he says, "Why so much? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because it's an American board on a submarine. I want to avoid it, I'm afraid of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u407	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u408	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When I listen to government representatives, I hear a dogma: if there are more American soldiers, it is good and right, because it is right and good. No weighing a right, no doubt about it. We're spending billions of dollars on American troops. Thousands of American young men with guns will be removed from the Polish law. This means huge economic and social costs. For what? To a false sense of security. No doubt, and we already have an amendment to the budget during the epidemic, the health crisis and the first recession in decades. And what's the biggest money going for? To the army. What are we increasing expenses for? To the army. There is no health protection, there is no energy danger, the government announces cuts and redundancies in the budget, and the funding of the US army's stay is evidently there. Is this what the Poles expect at this moment? Are these the threats that the government should be fighting? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poles now need health, social security, certainty that they will pay the rent and the doctor they will go to will take it. There's no money for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u409	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u410	Colonization+, prospective occupation+. What are the other objectives, Minister, for which the U.S. military police can be used on the basis of this agreement on the territory of the Republic of Poland? What kind of deal is that? What is the legal category: other objectives? Let us remind you that the context is important. Act 1066 signed for the previous regime has not been cancelled by you. Permission to act on foreign services in the territory of the Republic of Poland. There is the Semoniak and Macierewicz Act - by the first one prepared by the latter one - on the basis of which, at the request of the Minister of Defence, the President may consent to the use of violent ammunition by foreign troops in the territory of the Republic of Poland outside the area of the field and not in the state of war. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's the context.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u411	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u412	According to Art. 3 point 3 of the Republic of Poland authorised the U.S. armed forces to control access to agreed facilities and sites which were transferred to the U.S. armed forces for exclusive use. How, then, is the Republic to exercise its sovereignty and control what is actually happening in these areas? After all, we have a precedent that the Americans, having their territory in the Old Kiekutas, used it so that we had huge problems. In 2014, the European Court of Human Rights committed us to compensation for the citizens of Saudi Arabia and the Palestinian citizen. Do we really have to make the same mistakes twice to understand that some things aren't done? I ask you to answer the question of how we secure our interests in these areas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u413	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three questions. First: Does the Minister know the saying that you should not seek your enemies close and your friends far away? Second question: Did the government read the NATO Treaty, which says that in the event of an attack, e.g. on Poland, other countries will use the necessary resources, including the use of armed forces, which means that they do not need to use the armed forces, of course? The U.S. Brigades have been rehearsing their evacuation to Germany for the time being. Just in case. Question three: Does the government realize that there is a good chance that his Excellency Donald Trump will lose the election in the United States and then those forces in the United States will be in the hands of forces that hate the PiS government? I am afraid that Poland will have serious difficulties for this reason. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u415	Thank you very much. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, cooperation with the largest army of the world, with the most powerful army of the world, not the largest but the most powerful army of the world, is something that should benefit Poland. Benefits in the form of technological development of our army, benefits in the form of drawing on good patterns from those who practice all over the world all the time. Yeah, that should be a benefit. However, what is worrying is that the state unfortunately trades our partnership for vassalism. That's the problem. The partnership is threatened by vassalism. And that's one side of the coin. And the other side of the coin, completely frightening already, is the fact that when you talk to many politicians of the governing camp, but unfortunately also many generals whom you have appointed, it is the question about the state of security of Poland and the Polish army, about its fighting and scaring capabilities that answer: Americans, NATO. That's where they start, and that's where they end up. And this is the greatest threat to the security of Poland, that this way is formatted thinking. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u417	Thank you. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u418	I would like to know why this agreement is so unfavorable. There are countries that make themselves pay for the presence of American bases, there are countries that pay for it, and there are countries that not only pay but give away various privileges. Why are we among the latter? Why did we negotiate this under such adverse conditions? Is our international situation that desperate? Maybe there's something we don't know. If so, please tell us what is happening that we agree on such desperate terms. Or maybe you've been negotiating so badly. Perhaps this desperation was evident in your presence. Perhaps the partners felt that you wanted to install them here at all costs, and they were bidding so high that you agreed to everything. Of course I do. Those are questions. I don't mind us dating Americans on reasonable terms, but those terms aren't reasonable. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u419	Thank you very much. Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. Then remember me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u420	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! To be honest, it is a bit of a shame to this Parliament that this debate is dominated by the speeches of only Members of the Confederation. Gentlemen, speaking about the fact that the presence of American troops in Poland is a threat to Polish sovereignty, or comparing it to the Soviet occupation forces is simply embarrassing. The more you talk about it from that podium, the more bad it is about you guys. This comparison is simply disgraceful. Something substantial, Comrade Jarzębek. On the other hand, a completely different matter, Your Marshal, is the agreement itself. Minister, the previous government has developed a standard in Polish-American relations concerning jurisdiction in Poland. If an American citizen, even a soldier, does a crime in Poland, he will do something to a Polish citizen - we know such cases, they are often common crimes - it falls under Polish jurisdiction. Poland may waive this. But it's not like we're resigning from office. Minister, you have either proved to be a miserable, miserable negotiator or you represent interests not of the Republic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We are a sovereign state. Also in our dealings with our partners, even if they are bigger, we must maintain sovereignty.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u421	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Your marshal, correct. But, I'm sorry, in what mode? As a group. You didn't say anything. As a group. But no, your name hasn't been mentioned, so what corrigendum... I understand you have to speak impersonally so you can't straighten it out. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u422	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Our presence in NATO and our alliance with the United States are our vital interests, and I think that almost no one in this Chamber has any doubts about this matter. All governments have always tried to pursue politics in such a way that there is a consensus on this. This is the first most important thing. And the second is that state foreign policy is one of the most important policies of power. The only problem is that your government hasn't had any foreign policy in five years. All your external actions are subject to the current political, party goal. An excellent example of this is precisely this agreement. Because it's just a weak deal. The people who negotiated the provisions of this agreement... It wasn't the Minister of National Defence, the President, the Prime Minister or the Foreign Minister, it was the former party politicians of the PiS. You wanted to hide the records of this agreement from us so you could use it in Andrzej Duda's election campaign. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You specifically agreed to lower the terms of this agreement compared to the previous ones, because you needed it in the election campaign. Thank you very much, sir. Time's up. It's outrageous that you take advantage of the state's most important interests for short-term... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Indeed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u423	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u424	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! NATO membership and cooperation with the United States are the pillars of our security. The Government of the Civic Platform and PSL has done a great deal to strengthen our military partnership and cooperation with the United States in general. A chick. We had a very good deal like NATO SOFA. This agreement, which is proposed by the PiS government, indeed contains provisions that significantly aggravate the Polish situation. Today, Minister Błaszczak needs to explain why he renounces criminal jurisdiction on behalf of the Republic of Poland in relation to the standard that applies between NATO Member States. But there is another more important problem in my opinion to explain. How much does it cost, how much will it cost Poland to commit to this agreement? Because Poland is committed to logistics and infrastructure services. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The annex with the investments to be made by Poland is impressive. How much does it cost? How will this affect the development of the Polish Armed Forces? Will there be money for us to upgrade our own Armed Forces? The Minister of Defense has to explain today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u425	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Bartosz Kownacki, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u426	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Braun and Mr Rozenek in one house steel. Interesting alliance and interesting sentiment, strange sentiment for Soviet troops in Poland. It is a pity that the words of the Civic Coalition are also in a similar tone about this money. This was not by chance a speech by Mr Pontylius from a few months ago. In corrigendum mode, Your Marshal, my name has been mentioned. Well, ladies and gentlemen, history has taught us that freedom and independence of Poland have no price. There is no price to pay for us to be free, undisturbed, to feel safe. And I suggest you remember that. Two questions for the Minister. First: How many U.S. troops were in Poland in 2015, and how many are currently in Poland? Secondly: Do you have such calculations, compared to other countries in the world, about what economic benefits - I am not talking about security anymore, about military benefits - gives the presence of American troops in a given territory, and can this be calculated in any way? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u427	Thank you very much. Mr Braun, as corrected. I understand your word has been misunderstood. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u428	Ladies and gentlemen! Because the author of the insinuation doesn't address me. Ladies and gentlemen! Rewind the tape, listen to my not so long speech, in which I appeal to the withdrawal from Poland of a group of Red Army troops as one of the most important and happiest moments of my life. This is not the first time I have said this in this House. I repeat: the fact that you have made a dogma of bringing foreign armies to Poland is a disgrace to you. History, not me, will judge you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u429	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u430	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no such price, but this agreement will have to be paid and we would like the Minister here in the Sejm to tell us how much. Because you need money to modernise the Polish army. It is not only about bringing in troops, but also about the fact that the Polish army must be armed. In 2016, your predecessor, Minister Macierewicz, Prime Minister Szydło, announced that you would purchase 50 helicopters in Mielec in November 2016. I would like to ask: What are these real purchases for the Polish army in Mielec today? Because we need the modernization of the Polish army. This was discussed in the Committee on National Defence, but I think it is so important that it should also be discussed in the Committee on Public Finance. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need a fair answer, not just a declaration. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u431	Thank you, Member. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u432	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! By the way, it is interesting or even grim that the left-wings teach us here with the mouth of their Member, how the security of Poland, our country should look like, in the context that the Soviets have occupied our country for so many years, and in some ways also with your permission. Because it is important to remember that you yourselves are those who directly inherit this shameful heritage of the Polish United Workers' Party. But I would like to address another Member here because today this action has appeared on the Internet: ask Krzych. Mr. Bosak is not with us, but I'd like to ask Mr. Krzych what he thinks. Is there more Gregor or Gregory in Mr Braun? Because I don't see Gregory in him. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u433	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Weak. Not weak, you have to be able to think. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! You're welcome. Cougars are for such conversations. Please, Mr... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr Kalet! Yes, sir. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Apologize and leave now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u434	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The previous agreement allowed for the introduction of 5.5 thousand to Poland. American soldiers. That means it's a good deal. [[Applause]] The new agreement will allow you to bring in an additional thousand. Question: "Which agreement is better?" That's a question for you, Minister. The new agreement shall be an integral part of the Annex. In fact, there are two, but this is the second annex, Annex B, which shows 7 airports, 7 aviation bases. We will invest Polish money, Polish taxpayers' money in these bases. If the flagship project of the Government of Law and Justice is the Central Communication Port, why didn't you add this port (the bell) to the annex? Because he's never gonna be there.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u435	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The questions will be answered by the Minister of National Defence, Minister Mariusz Błaszczak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u436	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We can say in this way: democracy in Poland is flourishing, because the biggest nonsense can be said here, from this speaker. But for this to happen, Poland must be safe, because if Poland is not safe, then even the country that is not prepared for this debate... You obviously haven't read the contract, you're clearly telling me the crazy things. There are also things that are disgraceful. In the century of the Battle of Warsaw, when we stopped, our ancestors stopped the Bolshevik storm, on the eve of the tragic anniversary of 17 September 1939, when Poland after the German attack was stabbed in the back by the Red Army, the same army which, after 1945, was stationed in our country, was disgraced by the words spoken by one of the Members that a great deal was tied to the Polish People's Republic with the Soviet Union. Well, it's a disgrace, it's actually a disgrace. But you see, in democracy, even such shameful words can fall because today Poland is safe. Poland is safe from 2015 until 2015. Poland was disarmed. We're in NATO. The year 2011 was particularly tragic. I will name the units of the Polish Army, which the PO-PSL coalition government destroyed on the eastern flank, east of the Vistula. From the north: regiment in Suwałki, 1. Warsaw Division Mechanicized them. Tadeusz Kościuszko, whose command was in Legionów, a battalion in Siedlce, a brigade in Lublin. You've eliminated it. It's okay. That wasn't necessary, was it? You're talking about the fact that in 2008 you noticed that Russia invaded Georgia, and you're quoting the 2009 agreement. The agreement you were delaying was delayed. This agreement was created for the government of Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński in 2007... Ha, ha, ha! ...and you waited for her to be accepted. This deal is cut to a small number today... Your Marshal... ...American soldiers. That's the number of U.S. soldiers who can be stationed at the Redzik base. Let me remind you: How many American soldiers were in Poland in 2015? 170. Of course it's not true. 5,000. American soldiers have been in Poland since 2017, on the basis of a decision taken at the NATO Summit in Warsaw in 2016. Who prepared the Platform. This is undoubtedly important and good for Polish security. This agreement had to be reconstructed because it regulates the legal status of US soldiers in our country and the 2009 agreement. Once again, she was cut into a small number of U.S. soldiers. This agreement, ladies and gentlemen, is the same twin agreement with agreements signed by the United States with Bulgaria, Croatia, Estonia, Germany, the Netherlands, Lithuania, Latvia, Romania and Hungary, as well as with Israel and Egypt outside the North Atlantic Alliance. Compare this, remember what you just said, and think about how this is related to the facts I just mentioned. I always repeat - and this is the subject of my mission - the security of Poland is guaranteed by the Polish Army. Let's look at the numbers: 2015 - The Polish Army had 95 thousand. soldiers, 2020 - it has more than 130 thousand. soldiers. Bullshit. All you have to do is recall these facts. There's a new, fifth kind of (The bell) of the armed forces - the Territorial Defence Army. Purchases of equipment for the Polish Army - I will exchange, because time passes inexorably. Patriot system, High Mars rockets, F-35 - indeed... And how much does that cost? ... MIG-29 should have been out of the service long ago. The pilot of this plane was killed. Those planes should've been... In your day. ...brought out of service. And since you have ignored these threats, eliminated military units, disarmed Poland, we have such a result of these actions that we have to rebuild these abilities. I'm talking about equipment bought abroad. Four planes... Mr Darkness, I ask you very much to calm your emotions. Minister, continue. But it's 60%. the budget of the Ministry of National Defence was allocated to the Polish arms industry last year. For example, armatohaubice Krab, self-propelled mortars Cancer, a lot of modern equipment, which is produced by the Polish arms industry. This is where I heard about Mielec. Mielec has contracts, helicopters were ordered in Mielec by the Polish Police and Special Forces. How much? That's four, not 50. If the PO-PSL coalition continued, Mielec would cease to exist, just like Świdnik. Because in Świdnik they were ordered by the Government of Law and Justice helicopters for the Polish Navy. 4. 4 plus 4 is 8. You have led these two bets, the pride of Polish history and... Maybe something about a deal with the Americans, Minister. ...presentation on the subject of abilities... Don't stop, Braun, don't stop. Calm down. Mr Braun, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you are interfering with the proceedings. They would cease to exist if the PO-PSL coalition continued to rule. Substantively. It hurts, it hurts. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, I would like to make this clear. Poland will exercise criminal jurisdiction over soldiers stationed in our country in any case that it considers relevant. That's the mechanism. The legal effect of this regulation on this matter is exactly the same as the 2009 regulation. Only a different mechanism is adopted. As far as access issues are concerned, all units, buildings or fields will remain the property of Poland. It is Poland that will determine which of them and on what terms they will be made available. Once again I stress that the security of our homeland is based on the Polish Army, more numerous than before 2015, consistently equipped with modern equipment and more firmly embedded in structures both of the North Atlantic Alliance and in relations with the United States. The presence of American troops in our country undoubtedly deters a possible aggressor. This infrastructure, which will be built, will serve not only the U.S. military, but also the Polish Army and, as I said, will be the property of our country. This infrastructure will allow you to accept up to 20,000. American soldiers, when such support is necessary, so it is real support, it is not only decreed but real support. Exercises that are being conducted with American troops are precisely what they serve, such as this year's Defender 2020 exercise. And since fearing through the presence of the most powerful army in the world in Poland is real, I hope that we will all agree. And let's remember what's going on beyond our eastern border. Two days ago, a meeting took place between the President of Russia and the President of Belarus. Former President of Belarus. The picture says more than a thousand words. Look at the photos that document what that meeting looked like. The effect of your politics. So what's going on behind our eastern border is a real threat. Therefore, it is our duty to ensure the safety of our homeland. And the agreement which has been submitted to the High House for ratification is a very important element of the security that I have just said. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u437	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other hand, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016 (prints No 460 and 599). I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u438	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I am pleased and honoured to present the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016, in print No 460, and the report is contained in print No 599. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The conclusion of the Strategic Partnership Agreement with Canada is a natural consequence for the European Union and a further step in the process of strengthening cooperation with that country initiated in 1976 by the Framework Trade and Economic Agreement concluded by the European Communities. 20 countries have already ratified this agreement. Marshal of the Polish Sejm, draft law approving the ratification of this agreement by the President of the Republic of Poland, in accordance with the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, had been forwarded on 7 July this year. to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. The Committee on Foreign Affairs, following its first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting yesterday, asks the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print No 460 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u439	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented to the High House by Mr Radosław Fogiel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u440	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I am pleased, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, to present the Club's position on Draft Printing Act 460 on the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, drawn up in Brussels on 30 October 2016. High Seym! To date, relations between the European Union or its predecessors and Canada have regulated: the Framework Trade and Economic Agreement concluded by the European Communities in 1976, the Joint Political Declaration on Transatlantic Relations adopted in 1990, renewed in 1996, the EU-Canada Joint Partnership Agenda of 2005 and the Comprehensive Trade and Trade Agreement on Free Trade between the European Union and Canada of 2016. The agreement we are talking about today is a comprehensive strategic partnership agreement with Canada. It is a natural consequence and a further step in the process of strengthening cooperation between the European Union and this country. In short, what is this agreement about, what topics are discussed there? Speech is among others. on the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, on combating illicit trafficking in arms, on cooperation in the fight against terrorism and its financing. Free trade and investment measures, sustainable development, cooperation in the fields of knowledge, research, innovation and communication technologies, cooperation in combating illicit drugs and cooperation in the fight against cybercrime are included. Also from the perspective of the Polish signing and entry into force of this agreement is part of the principles and objectives of the policy of the Republic of Poland towards Canada. Poland, as well as other institutions of the European Union, considers Canada to be one of the key partners, both in terms of economic potential and its importance and degree of international activity: either within the UN or within the World Trade Organisation or within the G7 and other organisations. For this reason, relations between the European Union and Canada deserve a high profile and should adopt a new legal formula. That's the job we're talking about today. This is also in line with the interests of the Republic of Poland, because the agreement extends the framework of cooperation and offers the tools necessary to intensify the political dialogue with Canada. In the longer term, entry into force [[♪ The bell ♪]] this agreement will result in intensified contacts between the Republic of Poland and Canada at different levels. It is worth adding that the entry into force of the agreement will not result in the need to change Polish law. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u441	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Grunkled on behalf of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u442	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I have the honour to present the position of the club vis-à-vis the draft law authorising the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Member States and Canada drawn up in 2016. If we look at this through geopolitical and global challenges, it is clear that only a strong, integrated and united Union can be an equal partner for China or the US, but only the Union and not national states. The Union, which, on behalf of all members of the community, sign a strategic cooperation agreement, becomes a global player and can create reality. The current agreement with Canada is the continuation of cooperation from the 1970s, when economic and trade cooperation agreements have already been signed. My predecessor talked about it. As we read in the explanatory memorandum, the agreement reflects the intensity of cooperation for international peace, security and the rule of law. It is regrettable that Poland, which has a problem with the rule of law, cannot play a greater role in this area of cooperation. Perhaps because of this there is a delay in ratification - we are the 20th country that makes it. To conclude, I would like to say that the Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u443	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Ivanik, the Left Club. There isn't. I understand. In that case, Mr Władysław Bartoszewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u444	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is, of course, in the interest of the Republic of Poland to have good relations with a partner who is a member of the G7 group, i.e. Canada, with whom we have had very good relations for a long time. The coalition club Poland - PSL - Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the partnership agreement. However, I would like to point out, after reading it quite accurately, that it is a rather curiosal contract. Exactly. Even the Sejm Analysis Office wrote in the statement that the purpose of this agreement is quite vague, completely inaccurate. Exactly. This is a deal a little on the principle of raising our relationship to a higher level. What is a higher level of relationship? I don't know. This is a crazy vague general statement. The content of the record is very general. Then why do you support it? On the one hand, the agreement is a framework, multitasking, and on the other hand some of the issues it contains are crazy detailed. Why do we need an article about banning proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, I don't know, it's a little... It is also absolutely amazing that we are to work together on the ban on the production of small arms and light weapons, their ammunition and their illicit trafficking. I didn't even... These are such precise records that don't quite fit... One thing I have pointed out in this agreement is that it is supposed to be used to promote the adoption of the so-called 'yes' within the European Union. A comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement or CETA. This agreement is not neutral for the Polish economy and Polish interests. Therefore, of course, because it is an agreement adopted by the European Union and adopted by the negotiators of the European Union, we have a very minor impact on this. It's a deal I'd call sloppy, to be honest. It's a mishma place where you put everything in one bag. The Germans call it the eintopfgerichte. This should not be the case for an international agreement. We will support this law because we do not want to paralyze the activities of the European Union. On the other hand, I would prefer that contracts be prepared in a more thoughtful way. Thank you very much. I don't get it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u445	Thank you very much. Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation. If you're against it, then why are you against it? Mr Braun, talk to yourself in the cockroaches, not in the sitting room. Okay? Let's be serious.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u446	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, it is worth noting that the Sejm Analysis Office has doubts about this agreement. I quote: the purpose of the agreement is not specified. So let's try to evaluate for ourselves what might be the target and ask a few questions. On the basis of the justification, it can be concluded that this agreement is deeply embedded in a liberal and multilateral approach to international relations. It's hard to take this kind of rhetoric seriously from the '90s. Today, in times characterised by increasingly intense international competition and the collapse of the role of multilateral mechanisms for international relations. It shows us the sterility of such rhetoric. I am surprised that the supposedly right-wing government, instead of appealing to national interests, feeds us such an ideological new speech. Let us take a closer look at some points in this agreement. Art. 2 (4). Why does the government calling itself an independent camp support an agreement suggesting the need to create new obligations at international level in the field of the rule of law? Has the use of this issue so far in political attacks against the Polish state, in questioning its sovereignty by the supranational bodies of the European Union, taught the Government of Law and Justice nothing? Art. 9. talks about support for globalisation and even support for financial management not only at national level but also at regional and international level. Does the Government of PiS support the giving of the powers of the Republic of Poland in the field of financial policy to transnational organisations? Really? Do you even know what's in this deal? Probably the same as yesterday at the committee meeting, I won't get any answers. But there's nothing to be surprised about. After all, you have probably just learned about this agreement, how the European Union has given it to you to ratify it, and it probably has not explained to you why, why and in whose interests it is. One thing is certain: it is not in the interests of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u447	Thank you, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u448	God's happiness to all normal Canadians, sometimes even pious people, undead by this system, which in the last decade has already taken a completely public shape of the People's Republic of Canada, which persecutes people - small, large, born, unborn. There you can kill a man legally or leave to die until nine months pregnant. You don't go to the crime scene for that, and nobody even calls the police because it's just legal. Barbarianism in this supposed exhibition site of liberal democracy. Wild barbarism. Persecuting people. Freedom of speech, individual freedom also suffers, especially in the last day, under the pretext of fighting a pandemic. Since this agreement is saturated with the progressive new speech, there is no reason for the Republic of Poland (Dzwonek) to ratify it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u449	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Krystian Kaminski, the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u450	That's a specific question. Art. Point 12 (8) of that Agreement. In a situation where Poland is at such an early stage of energy transformation and is still dependent on coal burning, is it in Poland's interest to emphasize so strongly the need to combat greenhouse gas emissions, which is enshrined in this agreement? Once again, the question is, have you read this agreement, do you know what it relates to, are you able to answer, or is it in our interest? Because I have the impression that you have either not read or just everything that comes from the European Union, accept and let go. Because it is impossible to blindly sign such agreements by taking care of the Polish national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u451	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u452	If, in accordance with this agreement, we are to intensify our relations with the People's Republic of Canada and raise them to a higher level, then I think that in practice simply the ambassador of this country should not leave the waiting room in our Ministry of Foreign Affairs, being called to the rug to answer questions about what is happening there, what they are doing there. Mary Wagner, who defends human life, without segregation, without dividing into those who are small, big, healthy, sick, for years, including years, was imprisoned. Her predecessors in this work together spent nearly a decade in Canadian prisons. Oh, that's a question to ask. Editor Andrzej Kumor, our compatriot from Toronto, persecuted for (The Bell) bold, up-to-date publications relating to problems not only Canadian, but also Polish life. There, accused by representatives of a radical minority, summoned by the police... Thank you very much, sir. ...scared of court. These are topics that should be of interest to our diplomacy when it comes to the functioning of the People's Republic of Canada.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u453	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The questions will be answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Piotr Wawrzyk. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u454	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, As regards the date of entry into force, why so late, I inform you that this agreement has been in force since 1 April 2017. The other side, Canada, has not yet carried out this ratification either. It has been ratified, as you said, by a total of 21 countries. The agreement is of a general nature and therefore the wording is so vague. As the name suggests, it is a strategic partnership agreement. With such contracts, concepts are always formulated in a very general way, so that they can be filled in during the day-to-day application of the contract. This is the essence of such agreements in international law. It's not a new language, it's a legal language for these kinds of contracts. If you read any contract of this kind, you'll see that each one will be written in this language. Why? In this case, this is particularly justified... Exactly. ...because we are talking about an agreement in which Canada is on the one hand and there are Member States of the European Union on the other, and the ratification procedure for the entry into force of this agreement requires that ratification procedures be completed in all Member States. Therefore, the provisions contained in the agreement must reflect a position that will be accepted by all Member States. In other words, these general terms are a common denominator for the position of all Member States, including Poland. Because at every stage of application, I apologize for negotiating this agreement Poland also expressed its opinion, its position and without our consent these records in such a form would not be accepted either. And here we come to this specific question, which has been raised, namely the issue of negotiating greenhouse gas emissions. This agreement has the opposite effect from what you have insinuated. She is giving us an instrument to influence this in agreement with Canada, so that these international solutions in this area are beneficial from the point of view of the Polish economy. So the effect will be exactly the opposite of what you insinuated. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u455	Thank you, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by citizens of one State residing in the territory of the other State, signed in Warsaw on 29 May 2020 (prints Nos 487 and 600). I would like to ask you, Mr Radosław Fogel, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u456	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, submitted on 15 July 2020 a draft act on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by nationals of one State residing in the territory of the other State, signed in Warsaw on 29 May 2020, print No 487. The project was discussed by the Joint Committees: Administration and Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs. After examination of the project and after first reading, both committees shall request the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print no. 487 without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u457	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, the position will be presented by Mr Paweł Hreniak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u458	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Law and Justice Club vis-à-vis the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by nationals of one State resident in the territory of the other State, signed in Warsaw on 29 May 2020. The draft was discussed by the rapporteur and discussed at the joint meeting of the Commission: Administration and Home Affairs and Foreign Affairs. The negotiated agreement is an extremely important and expected agreement, primarily expected by our UK compatriots. The aim of the agreement is to give Polish citizens the right to vote in local elections which take place in the UK and, of course, on a reciprocal basis also to UK citizens residing in Poland. The ratification of the agreement will result in a return to the situation that took place before the United Kingdom came from the European Union, which we know, on 31 January this year. It is clear that the Polish authorities should be able to influence our country's local affairs in the United Kingdom, and there are over 900 000 of them there. This is a contract, as I have already said, expected, and our fellow countrymen will be guaranteed to maintain their rights so far. It is extremely important that despite the departure of the United Kingdom from the European Union to maintain friendly and best relations, and this agreement will certainly build and maintain this friendship through the involvement of Poles and British communities in the life of local communities. The Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u459	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Konrad Frysztak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u460	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am delighted that, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club - Civic Platform, Modern Platform, Polish and Green Initiatives, I can present our club's opinion on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by citizens of one State residing in the territory of the other State and on the draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on participation in certain elections by citizens of one State residing in the territory of the other State. Ladies and gentlemen! It is extremely important to stress that after 31 January this year, when the United Kingdom came out of the European Union and a very large group of our citizens remained in the United Kingdom, it is necessary to secure the possibility for them to vote and take decisions on very important matters, because directly concerning local communities. And on a reciprocal basis, such rights should also be secured for UK citizens during the local elections in our country. Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of ratifying this agreement. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u461	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Maciej Gdula. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u462	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I am delighted that this agreement will be ratified, because we live in times where politics is practiced against strangers, against others, while the main point of reference is the people of our own nation, and we think primarily of the national community, which is the highest one, while other levels of the community, different kinds of bonds are being questioned all the time, and this logic: it dominates itself. This agreement goes beyond this logic and shows that there are other kinds of bonds outside the national community. If someone lives in Poland and is a citizen of Great Britain or is a Pole who lives in the Islands, participates in the local community, he should be able to influence power, influence local affairs, because in this way he also takes root in these local communities. I'll admit I'm a little surprised that this deal was signed and submitted, but it's not surprising to me or the Left Club to stop her from voting for her. It is also a good agreement because it maintains relations with Great Britain and will allow, I hope, one day, to overcome the mistake that Britain has made when leaving the European Union. This mistake is to be corrected. Not only individuals make mistakes, but also nations. Thanks to the fact that we maintain a good, close relationship, I am convinced that in some long term we are able to draw Britain back to the European Union. I'm counting on it, I believe in it, and that kind of deal is definitely gonna help. The Left Club will support this project. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u463	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u464	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, this is a very important agreement and I am very happy that it has been signed. Secondly, Minister, the agreement with Canada is new, and this is a well-written agreement. You signed up for it, which I congratulate you on, because it is a well-written agreement and that is how international agreements should be made: clear, consistent, concise, precise. I would expect the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to make all our agreements so. Well, congratulations again, Minister. This is an important agreement because it is crucial for Polish citizens living in the UK, in the United Kingdom, with a minimum of several hundred thousand, and it is very important for the citizens of the United Kingdom who live in Poland. This is the normal treatment of our friends who, unfortunately, have left the European Union, but are still our friends and very important allies, also in the North Atlantic Alliance. The Polish Coalition Club will certainly support this agreement. However, I would like to draw attention to one aspect that is disturbing. Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of this agreement says:. The agreement is concluded for an indefinite period. Given what is happening at the moment at the Westminster Palace, where the second reading has been passed by the Internal Trade Act, which violates international law, as the Minister for Northern Ireland himself admitted during his speech... This creates a very dangerous precedent when it comes to signing any agreements with the United Kingdom until there is a rule of law, because at the moment the United Kingdom, the Government of the United Kingdom, considers that if the agreement is temporarily detrimental to the interests of the United Kingdom and has been signed and ratified, in this case by the 27 Member States of the European Union and by the United Kingdom, another may be voted out that violates previous agreements and violates international law. So this is not a good precedent, and England is based on a precedent law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u465	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u466	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The agreement is needed, falls within the scope of the previous regulation. When the United Kingdom was in the European Union, we had the opportunity to take part in the local elections, at a low level, at a low level, and when the United Kingdom was willing to give up participating in the Eurocircle, there was a legal void here. The United Kingdom maintains its unilateral desire to continue this regulation, but a signed agreement is needed to ensure that it is based not only on one-sided will but also on the agreement, and that is right. On the other hand, as for what happened here from the speaker just now, the United Kingdom - our friends, I would like to remind you that in international politics there are no friends, no enemies, there are interests between countries. It's a basic thing. And what the Allies in history looked like here, we remember well. So that history is the teacher of life, let's remember it well. Second thing. Here, from the mouth of the Left, the words regretted that theirs to their own, that politics is pursued in the interests of the nation, that this community is being undertaken. I would say that it is not enough and we are trying to work here to raise these values even more. And there is no antagonism here to cooperate very well with other nations, nor to represent the interests of Poles wherever they are in the world. If they want to be in Great Britain, whether in the end or in the short term, it is a very good fact for them to be able to gain political competence, including at those low levels of local government, in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. So that I judge this agreement positively, and I do not understand the scruples which have been seen here by the Member of the Left. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u467	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Minister Piotr Wawrzyk to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u468	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for this emphasis on the difference, because it is in a way a laurel for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that we have negotiated a specific agreement. But this concreteness is due to the fact that it concerns a very fragmented range of cases, very specific decisions, bilateral regulations between the Member States concerned only. Therefore, there was also no need to create this common denominator for a larger group of countries. That's why it's just another kind of deal. On the one hand, it is concluded for an indefinite period, but on the other hand it may be terminated in accordance with Article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u469	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018 (prints Nos 459 and 592). I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Evening to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u470	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, on behalf of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs and on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which met at the joint meeting, to present a report on the draft law on ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018. In accordance with the applicable procedure and on the basis of legal opinions, it is necessary for the High Sejm to adopt a draft law on ratification of these amendments and to agree that the President of the Republic of Poland ratifys the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2018. The Convention itself deals with the current situation that we are facing in the world, namely the increasing cases of piracy and attacking ships that are moving around the world under different flags. Therefore, it is the safety of seafarers who may find themselves in such a situation. With regard to the amendments that appeared in this document, first of all, these were amendments defining what piracy is, what is armed assault, so it is about cases that may actually occur. Another point is that, in the event that one of the workers, of the seafarers, actually faced such a situation and found himself in such a situation, his employment contract is extended from the vending machine. Another amendment is, of course, a question of pay. It also states that, if a seafarer is actually in such a situation, he is, of course, entitled to a normal remuneration until he is released. Finally, the right to be repatriated, which follows from the wording of the 3rd amendment to the Convention. As a result of the discussion in the committee, we recommend to the High Sejm that he adopt the draft of this law from print No. 459 without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u471	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice will be spoken by Mr Jerzy Materna. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u472	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present a report on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018, prints Nos 459 and 592. The joint committees today considered the bill and adopted it without a vote of objection. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The amendments to the 2006 International Labour Organisation Convention on Maritime Labour were adopted on 27 April 2018 by a special tripartite committee and subsequently approved by the International Labour Conference on 5 June 2018. According to Art. 15 of the Convention, these amendments will enter into force if they enter into force by the end of the deadline set, i.e. by 26 June 2020, no more than 40% shall object. States Parties to the Convention as of 5 June 2018 What are the amendments? The first amendment concerns the employment contract by adding a new paragraph. The new provision imposes an obligation to extend the maritime employment contract for the time of detention of a seafarer on or outside the ship as a result of piracy or armed assault on ships. The second amendment concerns remuneration and consists in adding a new paragraph. 7, which guarantees the payment of wages and other charges under a naval employment contract as a result of piracy or armed assault on ships. On the other hand, the third amendment concerns the right to be repatriated free of charge when seafarers are kept on board or outside the ship as a result of piracy and armed assault on ships. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The entry into force of the 2018 amendments will imply the need to amend the Maritime Labour Act of 5 August 2015 which implements the provisions of the MLC in the Polish legal order. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u473	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Artur Łącki. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u474	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present today the position of the club on the Government's bill of ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018, prints Nos 459 and 592. 3 May 2012 Poland has acceded to the Maritime Labour Convention. Its parties are 96 countries that represent more than 90% in total the global tonnage of the fleet. Amendments to the Convention were adopted in 2018 to include in the legal framework the emerging issues concerning the life and work of seafarers on board. Thus, the amendment to the A2.1 Convention ensures the continuity of the Navy's employment contract during the detention of a seafarer on or off the ship as a result of piracy or armed assault on ships, whether or not the period for which the agreement was concluded has expired or has been notified by the party to the agreement of its suspension or termination. The aim of the second amendment to standard A2. 2 is to ensure the payment of remuneration and other charges under a maritime employment contract, an appropriate collective agreement or applicable national law where a seafarer is held on board or outside of a ship by piracy or armed assault on ships until the seafarer is released and repatriated or until the date of death of the seafarer during detention. On the other hand, the third amendment on Guideline B2. 5.1 provides for the replacement of paragraph 1. 8 new, under which the right to free repatriation may expire if the seafarers do not request it within a reasonable period of time, except where they are held on board or outside the ship as a result of piracy or armed assault on ships. Of course, the amendment ratification law also includes a definition of piracy and a definition of armed assault on a ship. The entry into force of the amendments will not result in expenditure for the state budget or local government units and a reduction in the revenue of public finance units, but may affect the costs incurred by shipowners in the possible payment of remuneration and charges to a seafarer for a longer period than currently provided for by law. Failure to adopt amendments may have negative social, organisational, economic and legal consequences, and the social consequences of the lack of regulation in the area concerned may lead to a deterioration of the living conditions of seafarers and their families. The ratification of the amendments is part of the Polish maritime policy and will ensure that the interests of Polish seafarers are properly secured. But where a barrel of honey, there's always a spoon in there, kiddo. The PiS government with Prime Minister Morawiecki, under the special supervision of the President, introduces the law protecting the interests of seafarers and their families with one hand, and the other reaches into their pockets for money. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In the draft amendment to the Income Tax Act, the government intends to liquidate the so-called. abolition relief, which allowed seafarers working abroad to avoid double taxation. It allowed them to compete in an increasingly difficult European labour market as far as possible. They were able to provide a decent life for their families. Prime Minister! Ministers! You can be sure we won't leave it like this. Your actions are already catching up with the shipbuilding industry. We're not going to let you destroy another maritime sector just because you're running out of money on your fanaber. Thank you very much, sir. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, based on its sense of responsibility, believes that the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the Amendment to the Maritime Labour Convention is legitimate and is in the social interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u475	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u476	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I promise that this extended time of the Platform representative will try to give up in the name of good cooperation. I know a friend of Łącki's, so I know he had to read this speech to the end. On behalf of the Parliamentary Left Club, I would like to present my position on the draft law, in print No 459, on the ratification of the Amendment to the Convention on Maritime Labour, adopted in Geneva on 23 February 2006, approved by the International Labour Conference in Geneva on 5 June 2018. In our view, this is a very good solution. Those arguments were made. Today we have a very serious problem. Recent data show that acts of piracy increased by 100% only in the first half of 2020. So the number of attacks in different waters in the world has doubled as far as ships are concerned. Not only is it a danger for seafarers and crews themselves, it is still a matter of actual employment contracts and wage security. And it is this document, these amendments, which safeguard the terms of employment contracts, secure remuneration and issues related to possible repatriation. With regard to the questions we asked, there was a question of why this draft law appeared so late. Well, according to these provisions which appeared here, if, in fact, this agreement receives a positive decision of the Polish Parliament, which I firmly believe, and the President will sign it, these amendments will enter into force at the end of this year and will then become effective, but of course it will be necessary to implement these amendments to the Law of 5 August 2015 on Maritime Labour. We received information from the Polish government that these actions are already ongoing. We will probably adopt such a bill this year. On the other hand, the issues mentioned by Łącki's colleague concerning what might possibly be happening in terms of abolition relief are indeed important issues, but I hope that the Polish government will reflect and this double taxation in the case of seafarers will simply not be. The Left Coalition Club will support the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much. I've given you 20 seconds. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u477	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski, club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u478	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! These amendments are sensible, deliberate, correct and difficult to speak against. The situation of seafarers is very difficult, as my predecessor, the Member, said, because unfortunately the kidnappings of ships that last for months are very frequent. The situation of seafarers on these ships is awful and unfortunately there is no end to it. It is the responsibility of all shipowners to help these workers, those sailors on board the ship, and not to punish them financially yet. These amendments are perfectly rational. That is why, at the meeting of the three Joint Sejm committees, 61 Members took part in the vote: 1 abstained, but 60, regardless of the club to which they belonged, voted in favour of these amendments. The Polish Coalition Club will certainly vote for these amendments during the third reading. Thank you very much. I was even shorter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u479	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? I'm saved. There is one person - Mr Artur Łącki, the Civic Coalition Club. I'm closing the list of reporters. You're welcome, sir. One minute, I won't pay you back.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u480	Hello, Marshal. Dear Izbo! I wanted to finish because your marshal got upset and cut me some time. The Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition will support this project because this project is part of our country's social policy. Continuing with what I said in my speech about the bill, I wanted to ask, especially the Ministry of Finance, whether in fact work is being carried out in the Ministry of Finance on abolition relief, i.e. on the abolition of abolition relief for seafarers. If so, I would like to call on the Ministry of Finance to leave this abolition relief, because these are people who work more than 180 days a year away from home, are taxed in other countries, under other flags, and this is about avoiding double taxation. If she can't be left behind any longer, do you expect any compensation for the sailors? Please respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u481	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u482	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In their speeches, the State discussed in very detail the issue of amendments to the Maritime Labour Convention expected by seafarers. I am pleased that there is clear support for all clubs on the amendment. I also think that it is important that most countries have supported this amendment, and today we can safely say that these amendments will come into force within the next six months. What is also important is that the number of States that join the Maritime Labour Convention is growing year by year, as well as amendments that improve the situation of seafarers, in this case piracy, detention, which is important. From the data we have, 91% the global tonnage of the fleet has already ratified the Maritime Labour Convention and this is a good signal as well as the so-called flags. Cheap flags, which are also involved, which means that the sailor's protection is increasing. We, when we talk about our country, are one of the leaders when it comes to implementing the convention, and we are happy about it. With regard to the questions that he had asked, of course, the matter was not raised at the committee meeting. I think if there's a bill like this, it'll be an opportunity to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u483	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001 (Prints No 520 and 601). I would like to ask Mrs Mirosława Stachowiak-Różecka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u484	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001, presented in print No 520. On 29 July 2020, the Marshal of the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs for first reading. The committees, following their first reading and the examination of this draft law at its meeting on 15 September 2020, request that the High Sejm adopt draft legislation on print No 520 without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u485	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Mirosław Stachowiak-Różecka will be the first to speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u486	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just gonna say it a little bit. The Minister has not presented this issue, and I will take this opportunity to say that we have all encountered the phenomenon of treasure hunting. In this case, it's about treasures that fit in shipwrecks. However, this law is not only about searching for treasures in shipwrecks, but also about other threats caused simply by the development of techniques that involve the exploitation of seas, oceans. This applies to areas such as fishing, oil extraction, gas, pipeline installation, excavation, etc. Unfortunately, all of this poses a threat to the heritage there. It has therefore been noted that there is a need to implement legal solutions that will contribute to the development of an international system for the protection of cultural goods. To this end, this Convention on the Protection of Heritage has been established, which we are simply ratifying by this law. It is worth adding - because I think it is extremely interesting, of course, in our case, because we are most interested in the Baltic Sea - that Poland actually cooperates with the Baltic States in the protection of heritage within the Baltic Sea Council and the Baltic Region Heritage Committee. We are an active member of these bodies and, of course, everyone wants to have a coherent strategy in this area, a policy of managing this cultural heritage of the Baltic. Of all the Baltic Sea countries, Lithuania has already ratified this convention. I hope that this is what we will do and that Estonia, Finland and Germany are already preparing for this. So this really means that everything connected with cultural heritage and the Baltic will at least have a legal framework that will make this heritage better protected. The Law and Justice Club, of course, supports this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u487	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Piotr Adamowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u488	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Allow me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, to take a position on the ratification of the International Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted in Paris in 2001. The convention we are talking about is important for the protection of the historic wreckage in the seas and oceans of heritage, underwater archaeological sites and various other cultural goods, which we must first properly safeguard and, secondly, pass on to future generations. This extremely important act filled the gap in international legislation, which led to the majority of underwater cultural heritage subject to free exploration, often for strict purposes. commercial. An additional important argument in favour of protecting in situ wrecks is the fact that many of them should simply be considered graves. In the case of Baltic waters, a well-known example is the fate of the sunken ship Wilhelm Gustloff at the end of World War II, which unfortunately also was not left in peace by treasure hunters, would like to say: so-called. Treasure hunters. Regardless of this, underwater heritage can also be threatened by various forms of economic activity, such as: the extraction of gas and oil or the transfer of these raw materials. As Ms Gawin's general conservationist general at the committee yesterday admitted, until now the supervision of cultural goods and the safeguarding of cultural goods on land have been more effective compared to the supervision of cultural goods and the safeguarding of cultural goods in the waters. It's a good thing that's changing. The adoption of the Convention will require amendments to national law, including four laws. The environment of archaeologists and underwater museums, which I have consulted, draws attention to the current very restrictive rules on water platforms. The same regulations apply to divers operating drilling towers as well as to divers conducting archaeological research or more widely: scientific. As a result, there are serious costs for research carried out by necessarily underfunded cultural and scientific institutions. The side effect of this phenomenon is the gray zone. For these reasons, the environment calls for the exclusion of underwater research from the rules on generally understood underwater works. The Civic Coalition Club is obviously in favour of ratifying the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage, adopted in Paris on 2 November 2001, but at the same time on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to draw attention to the need to ratify another important convention soon. It is the International Convention on the Removal of wrecks, adopted at the International Diplomatic Conference in Nairobi in 2007. This Convention fills a gap in existing international rules, [[♪ The bell ♪]] provides uniform rules for the disposal of wrecks, which is particularly important. There are more than 400 wrecks in Polish waters. The dangerous materials that some of them contain pose a threat not only to the environment but also to human life. It goes on, among other things. Stuttgart hospital ship and Franken tanker. Therefore, ratification of this convention cannot wait. Thank you kindly for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u489	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u490	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Nearly 20 years ago, in Paris, the international community at UNESCO decided to protect underwater cultural goods from robbery and shipwrecks from plundering. She also noticed the threat to underwater cultural goods resulting from interference in the bottom to deepen or install pipelines, oil, gas, finally fishing and illegal underwater tourism. The UNESCO Convention was established as an extension and definition of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea protecting the underwater archaeological and historical heritage of December 1982. Currently, 63 countries, including 12 Member States of the European Union, are parties to the UNESCO Convention. Over the years, the Baltic Sea's underwater cultural heritage facilities have been explored many times, including by thrill seekers. At the bottom of the sea, people were killed both in territorial waters and outside Polish jurisdiction. Through the ratification of the Convention, the cooperation of the Baltic States in the area of heritage protection carried out by the Baltic Sea Council and the Baltic Region Heritage Committee and the implementation of the provisions of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, the European Convention on the Protection of the Archaeological Heritage of La Valetta and the Laws: the Maritime Code and the Protection of Monuments and the Protection of Monuments, will gain reinforcement and new tools in the form of a set of rules governing activities protecting underwater cultural heritage. We suggest that the government extend the provisions of the Convention to inland waters by making an additional declaration. Art. 1 of the UNESCO Convention defines as underwater objects of underwater cultural heritage all traces of human existence under water for at least 100 years, therefore Gustloff is not affected. Poland must complete the catalogue of archaeological monuments contained in the article. 6 in the Antiquities Protection Act. We also encourage the government to strengthen the protection of shipwrecks located in the Baltic Sea area, in particular those from World War II, and to conclude bilateral and multilateral agreements by the Republic of Poland on cooperation in this area. Art. The 2nd Convention prohibits the use of cultural heritage for commercial purposes and introduces a total, not limited as now, ban on the sale of monuments. We will therefore need to amend the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Regulation of the Minister of Justice on how to deal with property extracted from the sea and make it necessary to notify the Provincial Monument Preserver. We expect a rapid revision of the provisions of the Act on the Protection of Monuments and the Act on the Implementation of Underwater Works and the Conduct of Underwater Explorations only under the direction and supervision, and the constant presence of an underwater archaeologist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u491	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. There isn't. There's no envoy? Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. First, Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u492	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Given the recent case related to the attempt to blow up the bridge in Pilchowice and the response of Deputy Minister Lewandowski, one may have doubts about the Ministry's correct approach to issues relating to the protection of cultural heritage in Poland. However, one should ask why Poland ratifys the Convention for the Protection of Underwater Cultural Heritage so late. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u493	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u494	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The explanatory memorandum states that four laws will also need to be amended. I would like to ask if these changes are prepared. Because only then... We have waited long enough for this convention to be passed, and there are situations. On the other hand, even today's debate shows that the issue is of great importance and that amendments to the laws should also be made as soon as possible. I would like to ask the Minister whether these changes are ready and whether we can expect them to be adopted in the near future, because it will only then be important in a sense to resolve a major problem. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u495	Thank you very much, Member. Please, undersecretary of state at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Mrs Magdalena Gawin. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u496	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, First of all, I would like to thank all the clubs very much for understanding the importance of our cultural heritage, which is in the Baltic Sea, because that is basically all the Convention is about. Thank you very much for understanding the importance and need to ratify this convention. I will remind you that it was founded in 1991, but one of the most active parties was the Republic of Poland, so that we should actually ratify it as soon as possible. First of all, I would like to point out that it does not really apply to objects that are younger than 100 years old. Because these objects, the oldest ones, should be protected as much as possible. On the other hand, Poland, which was not a colonial country, we do not have wrecks that are 300 years old and more, above all this convention will allow us to act actively, cooperate with the countries of the Baltic Sea and we need this cooperation very much. Thanks to the ratification of this convention, we also increase our activity in the UNESCO forum. This is particularly important now that we have all submitted - I am talking about the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage and about the Gdansk government - a request to Paris for the entry of Gdańsk Shipyard on the UNESCO World Heritage List. So we're glad this ratification is. As far as legal provisions are concerned, yes, they are ready, except that, please remember, in this case, legal footnotes have entered into force even earlier than this convention, because we have already introduced certain legal provisions in 2010. So we're here in the opposite kind of relationship. Only now are we ratifying the Convention and the legislation was implemented more quickly. I would just like to remind you that everything that we find in the sea, like everything we find in the earth, belongs to the Treasury. Therefore, all acts of illegal delinquency are a crime. And it is very important that we, above all, educate the public, and seekers, that we must comply with clear criteria. I am therefore delighted that we are ratifying the rules on the protection of the Polish underwater heritage and that in this way we will increase our activity in the UNESCO forum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u497	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act on the National Media Council, print No 617. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, he listened to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Health Committee on the draft Act on the Medical Fund presented by the President of the Republic of Poland (prints No. 457 and 604). I would very much like to ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u498	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present the committee's report on the presidential draft law on the Medical Fund, in print No. 457 and 604. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to stress that, in the course of the work - first in the subcommittee and then during the work of the committee - of course, despite some of the disputes that were, it was finally possible to draw up a document that all or almost all Members supported, understanding the need to increase funding for health protection, to mobilise additional resources. First of all, it is important to express our thanks to the President, his officials from the law firm represented by Minister Mucha, but also, of course, representatives of the government and, in particular, the Ministry of Health. A really good legal solution was prepared together - as I said, prepared by your President, proposed by your President, and then analysed by both the government and the parliamentary side. It is worth noting that, because the social side at the beginning of the work reported various kinds of comments and doubts that were related to the project - it was also one of the reasons for the creation of the subcommittee - all these doubts managed to explain, eliminate and at the moment we are dealing with a project which purely reflects those intentions which were reported, concerning additional measures: for treatment, for example oncology or rare diseases. It was very emphasized by everyone. But it is also about investment opportunities, the purchase of equipment and other health care measures. The measures that are foreseen here are really big. In the beginning it is to be up to PLN 2 billion and in the following years - up to PLN 4 billion. Certainly, the role of all parliamentarians from all clubs will be to ensure that these funds are actually fully earmarked for this, enshrined in the relevant budget laws, and then to ensure that they are implemented and spent in accordance with the intentions of all of us - as I said: both the presidential, governmental and parliamentary sides. I am convinced that this law, so much needed, will be adopted unanimously tomorrow at the Sejm. I am very honoured on behalf of the Committee on Health, as rapporteur, to recommend the adoption of this law. Once again, I thank all the Members who have taken part in the discussion, and I apologise if there may have been too much emotion in all of this at times. But this really served the good cause of all parties, which I am firmly convinced of. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u499	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mr Czesław Hoc, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u500	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present the opinion of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice concerning the legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland on the creation of a Medical Fund. The greater the honor is that this law can only be talked about well, only in superlatives - at least in two dimensions. The first is the implementation of the announcements from President Andrzej Duda's election campaign, and the value of the word is to keep it. Thank you, Mr. President, for this initiative. Thank you, Minister Fly. The second dimension of good is the health aspect of improving the health and quality of life of Poles. If I add to this the use of high clinical value drug technologies and high level of innovation technologies dedicated especially to cancer and rare diseases called orphan diseases, we have actions for supermodern medicine and sensitive to the suffering of cancer patients, and to rare diseases - actions in the name of solidarity and empathy with small patients and their parents and an offer of measurable and priceless help. So we're giving out a real, modern war to cancer. Thus, a real chance for combination therapy, including radiochemotherapy, is also a real chance for biological drugs, and now biological biosimilars, molecular targeted treatments, gene therapy, protonotherapy, personalized therapy and precision therapy. At the same time, it is a real chance to treat rare diseases, which have been treated somewhat in stepmotherly. Still in Poland, patients with the most common rare disease, such as cystic fibrosis, live less than their peers in Western Europe. It is similar in the case of Niemann-Pick's disease, i.e. the so-called. Children's Alzheimer's disease, Factory disease, Gaucher disease, Pompe disease and others. Although there has been a breakthrough in the treatment of one of the rare diseases, SMA therapy, or spinal muscle atrophy, since January 2019 an innovative drug - nusinersen has been available. The entire population of patients suffering from SMA in Poland is protected by effective, free treatment. This is an incredible success. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Medical Fund is a state-owned special-purpose fund. The maximum limit for expenditure from the state budget will be PLN 4 billion in each year until 2029. It should be pointed out with all determination that there will be additional measures. This will be additional resources from the State budget guaranteed annually in the Budget Act. The Fund will be implemented under four sub-funds: a sub-fund for strategic infrastructure, comprising a grant for investment programmes, a sub-fund for the modernisation of medicinal entities, designed to improve the quality and availability and safety of healthcare services provided, a sub-fund for the development of prevention, strengthening the role of primary health care doctor and a nurse and midwife of primary health care and support for local units, a sub-fund for therapeutic and innovation, financing the cost of benefits and healthcare outside the country, and the costs of medicine as part of emergency access to medical technology in specific medical indications. Thus, the Medical Fund is a wonderful undertaking with a mission, a generational strategy, an investment in prevention and a strong investment pillar, modern and innovative therapy. It's a really good fund. Bravo, Mr. President! Bravo, government good change! Of course, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the draft Act on the Medical Fund with all its power and great satisfaction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u501	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u502	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to present the position of the Civic Coalition regarding the presidential project, the draft law of the President of the Republic on the Medical Fund, prints No. 457 and 604. I must tell you that the objectives of the vocation, as has already been said here, are very noble. These include the financing of medical services, the financing of construction and modernisation of infrastructure, the provision of health care providers, the financing of modern technologies. And let me tell you that, of course, the Civic Coalition is in full support of increasing every funding for health protection. In this case, too, we will support this law. But as usual, the devil is in the details. We would like to know whether the provisions on maximum funding of up to 4 billion per year will become a fact, i.e. whether these 4 billions will be transferred annually, as they appear in your assumptions. However, we would also like to know why - and here we think that this is not quite good information, that about 1% That's up to 1%, and you have to say that it's 40 million, so it's a very big cost -- so much is going to cost the service of the Medical Fund. But like I said, the Coalition will support any additional money that comes into health care, so we will definitely support it. On the other hand, we want to make one more amendment, which concerns this 1%.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u503	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u504	My dear Miss Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! Mrs Gelert, who spoke on behalf of the Civic Coalition, pointed out that this was a good project. I'll say they're good assumptions. Nevertheless, the fund is and is not there. Why are we talking about him having flaws? First of all, he has the first basic flaw that doesn't point to real money. If we assume that it will be up to PLN 4 billion, and this year up to PLN 2 billion, which is what it is intended for television... I think it's a desire, a desire to correct that mistake that you made, the president, by then transferring money not to oncology, but to television. It's about showing that this money should be less than it should be. Therefore, our amendment, the Civic Coalition Club, says that this money should not be less than a certain amount. Because the wording: up to PLN 2 billion or PLN 4 billion can mean both PLN 1 billion and PLN 0.5 billion. Therefore, in order to talk about real money, the amendment tabled by the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, should be supported. There's one more thing we're talking about. Here, my previous speakers spoke about specific sub-funds for which competitions will be organised, the money allocated to achieve the defined objectives with which, let's say, we agree. But you didn't show any visions. You've pointed out that for today, you're doing this project, because you haven't shown how money will be divided into different sub-funds. If we determine that there are needs for both the exchange of beds and the support or modernisation of medicinal entities, the infrastructure for recipients, the consolidation of medicinal entities, then we should have a vision of how much each project needs. I understand, and I have not worked with one law, but at least in this respect the Minister's regulation should appear in order to show that we know how to aim and for what purposes to allocate money. We will ask you all, if you really care about health care, to support the amendment of the Civic Coalition Club, so that it is not less than 2 billion - and here we do not really believe that this year you will fit in with the money - so that it is not 100 million, 50 million, but that it is really [[♪ The bell ♪]] money transferred to health care, to support the objectives that are saved in this project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u505	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u506	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! This is not a rabbit with a hat - said Minister Szumowski when President Andrzej Duda surprised us all in June during the election campaign and proposed the creation of a Medical Fund to improve the health protection of Poles and Poles. Strangely, however, the deadline for announcing this noble project coincides with the transfer from taxpayers' pockets - i.e. also patients - of PLN 2 billion to state television. In its position of 17 July 2020, the Chief Medical Council negatively assessed the establishment of another State-owned special-purpose fund to carry out only certain public health tasks financed by public funds. Such actions generate in particular additional costs related to the operation of the Fund, covered by budgetary resources, which could be used directly to improve the working conditions of medicinal products and to increase the availability of healthcare services, in particular modern treatments and medicines. In addition, the proposed law introduces non-transparent and complex procedures which do not allow a clear statement of the objectives and to what extent the medical fund's resources will actually be allocated. The draft law sets only a maximum limit for expenditure from the state budget over the years, without indicating the amounts guaranteed. I have clearly and several times paid attention to this issue during the work of the Sejm Sub-Committee. From the very beginning, there has been no shortage of critical expert opinions, the most important of which is that, in fact, the Medical Fund will not introduce any additional funds, because the funding is based on the Ministry of Health's resources. Remember, each of us was, is or will be a patient. Therefore, we are waiting for real, widely consulted changes in the health system, real changes, thoughtful, forward-looking, accepted and taking a real step forward. Poles and Poles deserve a real health care system, not a better or worse patched system in which the patient is not the most important link. We have reservations about the legislative quality of the original draft submitted. It is worth mentioning that several dozen amendments were tabled by law and justice at the stage of the process. It is clear that the stigma on this document has marked the hot pace of the presidential campaign. The Left will always stand on the side of patients and any initiative that provides for additional resources to protect health can count on our support. The left will always raise his hand behind regulations that will help the health system. Therefore, I will recommend the adoption of the bill to the parliamentary club Left. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u507	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u508	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! It was supposed to be a simple bill, a simple solution to respond to the idea of President Andrzej Duda, who made such a commitment during the campaign. In my opinion, but also many legislators, people who evaluated this idea in substance, could do so in a much simpler way, for example by issuing a separate fund in the National Health Fund with a separate financing principle, with a separate funding system. In fact, a basilisk of organizational law was created. We saw it during the procession. And let's be honest, we are perfectly aware of the circumstances under which this fund was created. De facto it was created by chance, because if it were not for the image scandal caused by the transfer of PLN 2 billion to public media, government de facto, the President would not be forced to save his image position and propose such a fund as the opposition demanded, because we all demanded that this money be used for child oncology. Of course, during the process, there was the stigma of this ad hoc action, in a hurry, and in fact, if it were not for the Ministry of Health's help, the huge help of the Parliament's legislators, as well as the experience of President Latos, who skillfully led this law and, of course, the criticisms of the opposition Members, we would really have had a great deal of trouble, what this bill would be. On the other hand, let us return to Mr President's promises of 8 March 2020. He promised that this law would be presented in the coming weeks, that this law would have a parallel funding system, that this law would help in oncology diseases, rare in children and adults, with three pillars. And yes: it wasn't created in two weeks, but rather in months, this funding system is unclear and there are most reservations about it. Whether it's parallel, we'll see. I hope so, 'cause that's the money you need. And the most important thing, the key issue is the treatment of rare diseases of children and adults. I understand that when we pass this bill and it comes into force, no children and their parents will look around the world for doctors and will not raise money for their children because it will provide them with the state budget. I understand that portals such as Siepomaga.pl, Zdrotka.pl or the activities of the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid will not be needed, because all this will provide the budget of the state. This is the purpose of the bill. And let's use examples. I have recently seen an incentive to collect for a child suffering from SMA, for a treatment worth PLN 9 million. I understand that these people no longer need to be afraid of this in similar cases. Such treatment will be financed by the Polish State, by the state budget, when the Medical Fund will be established. I promise that we, as a club of the Polish Coalition, of the Polish People's Party, will monitor this situation because I believe that this is the purpose of this law and that is the intention of the President. Otherwise, this bill will not mimic the President's original intentions. Our club is in favour of increasing the financing of the health system and I will recommend Members of the Polish Coalition voting in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u509	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. There isn't either. Mr Paweł Krutul, Left. Time - 1 minute. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u510	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have three short questions. It's already gone today. It is worth reminding the president that he signed PLN 2 billion on TVP, not oncology. What was more important, more important, and more necessary for our society? Because of the epidemic, one of the most affected patients is cancer patients. It is worth asking if the help he wants to give his patients to the president is not late, therefore, for a few months. Another question: How will the Medical Fund increase the access of older people after 65 years of age to specialists, including geriatrics, which are only 436 in our country? Last question: How will the Medical Fund provide funding or at least funding for the purchase of medical equipment to emergency stations? There are cases, like the one from Bialystok, from my district, where the station reports to the city's civic budget (the bell) the purchase of a neonatological ambulance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u511	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u512	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Without any doubt, the objectives of the bill are worthy of support. Unfortunately, however, as is often the case, the devil is in the details. Every day, more social gatherings are organized to save people's lives. Yeah, for example. for treatment of Nathan from Sosnowiec, for treatment of Julia from Wrocław, Mai or Krzysztof. Only for their treatment it takes tens of millions of zlotys. And similar cases are definitely not lacking. And instead of setting a minimum amount, the state determines the maximum value of the annual Medical Fund. I therefore call for a change in this respect. It is, of course, difficult to define the necessary measures, but the upper limit cannot be defined in such a situation. How does this law apply to the decision to remove from the reimbursement list on 1 September the preparation necessary for the treatment, for the life of children suffering from phenylketonuria? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The cost of the product increased 100fold. Please, I demand, therefore, on behalf of the parents and these children, that this decision be changed, that this medicine be refunded. They expect it from the House, they expect it from the fund. [[Applause]] I hope this decision is made as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u513	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u514	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The objective of changes in health care can be one: better conditions of treatment and care for the patient. Are these conditions met by the bill we're talking about? I don't think so, if the General Medical Board gives a negative opinion on this bill. So the question is why. There are three reasons that have been mentioned here. Perhaps the most important thing is the lack of transparency in the disposal of these resources. No division. In colloquially speaking, it's not money marked. And who's gonna run it? Minister. So are you sure they're going to go to those patients that the Members have just spoken about? But there is also a very serious allegation of a structural nature that the functioning of the Medical Fund is not consistent with the functioning of the whole health system. My main question: Was there no consultation with the General Medical Council? [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's question one. And whether really - maybe this rhetorical question - this bill will contribute to improving the conditions for treating patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u515	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u516	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The last 5 years have been a progressive collapse of the Polish public health system. Yes, sir, don't smile, that's what the Poles say. We all know how long it takes to see a specialist's doctor. 6, 8, 12 months. We all know how the Polish public health system is underfunded, but in this process the biggest social problem is, huge. You are leading to the fact that from year to year the health system is moving to the private sector. Poles spend more and more on private health care. Last year - 10 billion PLN out of your own pocket. These expenses are rising by a further 12% last year. . You are leading to a very serious social problem, which is that one who is wealthy, faster and more effective in Poland is being treated because he can afford it, and one who is poor cannot get to a specialist doctor for the next months. That's why I have a question: [[♪ The bell ♪]] If so, how will the Medical Fund solve the biggest problem of health protection in Poland, namely that it is the thickness of the wallet that determines how quickly and effectively Poles are treated today? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u517	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u518	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! True, it was already about SMA, or spinal muscle atrophy, a genetic defect, a rare disease, which is that as a result of a genetic defect, motor neurons are dying in the spinal cord and then there is weakness, atrophy and paralysis of the muscles. There is a rule that the sooner we recognize this disease, the better the effects of treatment, because there are medicines practically causal in this disease. So my question is this: Is there a chance, Minister, that we should conduct screenings towards SMA in every newborn? About 60 children are born every year, so this is a serious problem. If we'd known it early, these neurons wouldn't have died, and we wouldn't have led to irreparable. [[♪ The bell ♪]] muscle and nerve damage. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u519	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u520	Dear Marshal! Minister! Both, the President's Office and the Ministry of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, From now on, I'm going to tell you: for the last five years, as I said today. The queues have increased over the last five years. For the last five years, you've been putting on public television every year. For the last five years, you've been bragging that there's more money in the National Health Fund. Yes, but it was paid out of their pockets, out of their contributions Poles, and the state over the last five years, or at least for the last year, were unable. The announcements from March to today, Mr President passed on the project and those amounts that were to be at least the same as for public television over the last five years, will not be used this year. This. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Grenade. Second thing. Neither the State nor the Minister of Health can tell you what the budget money is going to be planned for this year and next year, because in the next year's budget you have no such reserve, and you could create a reserve for the health fund. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] There it is, there it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u521	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u522	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! With an inquiry, because the bill comes in 30 days after the signing. Therefore, it is expected to be around November. So how is this year, how are you planning this year... Are you planning which sub-fund you're going to run, what tasks you're going to run from this, and how much money you're going to get for it? Thank you. [[Applause]] Unused move on to next year.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u523	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u524	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fund's mission, yes. The objectives of the fund - yes. But the Medical Fund today doesn't introduce any extra money into the health care funding system. These are merely announcements. This means today that the fund will have the resources that will have to be shifted from other activities previously financed by the Ministry of Health, and yet neither the Ministry of Health nor the health fund for excess funds do not suffer because the queues are increasing. I would therefore like to ask why there is no amendment to the budget law with this law, there is no amendment to the expenditure of the multiannual budget, which would increase the funds available to the Minister of Health. There's no bill yet. Therefore, I have a question: Will the provisions of this law actually become (the bell) a fact and be based on the resources that will be in the state budget? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u525	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u526	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Two questions. First, to the representatives of President Andrzej Duda: Will you seek that this money, which in fact should be used this year, be able to increase next year's fund? And the second question, to the representatives of the Ministry of Health. This law refers to a sub-fund for the modernisation of medicinal products. I recall the promise made by Prime Minister Morawiecki a year ago that a hospital modernisation fund would be set up. Isn't that... Same thing. ...included in this bill? That promise? Because it would be a scandal. However, are you working on a separate hospital modernisation fund? I asked that at the committee meeting, and I asked it under many other circumstances. I never got a clear answer. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u527	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u528	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It can already be seen that the consolidation fund will not go where it should go, i.e. to county hospitals. She's gonna end up in some big unit that's gonna want to take over some county hospital. That's not what this is about. It's about getting the money to the county hospitals so they can stay where they are. This is the first front of the treatment of the population, especially the population in the province. If there are no county hospitals, people in the province will die of a lack of doctors. And you can't see that money. [[Applause]] Minister! Where is the money for the greatest shame of Polish health care? The greatest shame of Polish health care It's child psychiatry. I don't see them. There's no money. Are we afraid of this? I have a question: could you talk to the president about getting money for child psychiatry in this country? Maybe the president would be the face or the voice of child psychiatry. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u529	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u530	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! As you can see, you can repeat something 10, 20, 30 times. You have to say it again, so I'm asking you a question. Minister, do we know that this money - we know that it will increase the pool of funds that are intended to protect health, precisely because it will be money from the budget and not the allocated money from the National Health Fund? Is it written in the bill and it follows that the money that will not be spent this year will go to another year and will then be started? It was all said at the committee meeting, and you can get the impression that no one ever heard of it, no one knew it. Maybe it's worth answering that question again. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u531	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u532	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will support all kinds of initiatives and health care funds. I know that health care is in a very difficult situation today. Hospitals have never been as indebted in history as they are now. Hospital staff, medical personnel are getting old. Young doctors travel beyond the borders of the country. The queues are getting longer. Unfortunately, in many cases, health care - professionals - is available only to rich people. We have to respect all people. Last time I checked, my office was filled with room service ladies. They complained that, in so far as compensation was found for doctors and nurses working in infectious wards, there were no such measures for ladies of the hall. Remember them, too. They do very hard work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If there are various regulations, let us remember that they apply to all those who work in the healthcare sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u533	Thank you very much, sir. That was the last question. Now please, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Paweł Mucha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u534	Dear Marshal! Dear Ministers, High Izbo! Thank you very much for your support for the Presidential draft law on the Medical Fund and for the relevant words characterizing this valuable initiative. There is no doubt that the Medical Fund is expected by the environment of Polish patients. This is a realistic response to the needs that have been reported when it comes to filling a gap related to certain needs in the fight against rare diseases and treatment, including oncology treatment, and the treatment that is being carried out today using modern medical technologies. The objectives of the Fund have been very clearly defined by the President. As questions were raised, I would like to remind you that these are objectives aimed at improving health and quality of life in the Republic of Poland, ensuring additional sources of funding for prevention of early detection of diagnosis and treatment of civilization diseases, including cancer and rare diseases, health care infrastructure affecting the quality and availability and safety of healthcare services provided, access to quality health care services, development of the healthcare system by concentrating activities around the patient and his needs, with particular emphasis on improving the quality of life of patients and their families, health care services provided to persons until the age of 18 and healthcare services provided to recipients outside the country. We point to these solutions, which are included in the Act, and are based, among others. on the introduction of unlimited child benefits. We also point to those needs that are related to the treatment of rare diseases where treatment is needed outside the country. This is a complementary solution to the functioning system. As Mr Tomasz Latos described it, Mr Czesław Hoc also spoke about it, these measures are not covered by the National Health Fund budget today. These are not measures which, to any extent, will limit the extent of spending from the State budget, which so far are at the disposal of the Minister of Health. No funds of the Minister of Health from the budget so far planned will be transferred to the implementation of the tasks set out in the Medical Fund. But we know that, we know that. Unfortunately, according to your questions, it seems that not everyone knows that. That's not what some people said. There's one thing that needs to be corrected. The possibility of effective implementation of the Fund's tasks has been enhanced by identifying as one of the sources of its revenue contributions from the State budget provided by the Minister for Health at the amount specified annually in the Budget Act. So this solution - already introduced at the process stage - is instead of subsidies from the state budget. What does that mean? This solution will allow the Fund to use the full amount of funds received to carry out its tasks. Unused funds will be transferred to the following year. That's also the answer to one of the questions that came up. As regards the expenditure limit issue, we have talked about this on a number of occasions during the committee meeting and the subcommittee meeting. The determination of the amount of the expenditure limit is a mapping of the obligation expressed in the Public Finance Act, as I recall, in Article. 50. That's not true. On the other hand, with regard to the measures that will be set out annually in the Budget Act, you will decide in the High House what specific amounts will be. I am convinced that the bill will be adopted and signed this year. If the legislative process is completed, it will be the basis for allocating certain financial resources this year to meet the objectives set out in Article. 3 laws. I'm also profiling one of the untruthful statements. Of course, the fund is a state-owned special-purpose fund. The Fund shall be governed by the Minister responsible for. health, which allocates funds to these tasks, and it must be pointed out that the Minister's professional support in this area is provided by the Council of the Medical Fund. The Council of the Medical Fund shall have experts who are representatives of patient organisations whose statutory tasks include matters falling within the scope of the Act and issues relating to the activities of the Council. This is activity. not only the representatives of the President, the Minister or the President of the Council of Ministers, but also the representative of the Ombudsman and representatives of patient organisations. Of course, the work on this law is not an ad hoc action. This is a false proposition contained in one of the questions (the bell), because in this regard we are dealing with an action that responds to the need of the patient environments. This is an action which was carried out by the National Development Council Health Protection Section in cooperation with the National Health Fund, the Agency for Health Technology Assessment and Tarification, and above all the Ministry of Health, for which I would like to thank the Minister present in the Chamber. Thus, patients expected this law, experts for many months debated this law and adopted solutions which are contained in this law, which assume the functioning of the three sub-fund. As part of the sub-fund for the modernisation of medicinal entities, contrary to what was included in one of the questions, it is also possible to support county hospitals. We have a sub-fund for strategic infrastructure, which is also described in detail in the Act, the sub-fund for modernisation, which we are discussing, the sub-fund for the development of prevention and the very important sphere for which Minister Miłkowski is responsible in the Ministry, are issues related to the therapeutic and innovation sub-fund. This is a very profound reflection on the tasks that will be carried out. When it comes to issues related... Please, Minister, come to the end because time is passing. Marshal, I'll conclude. There's no alternative. There's a false alternative here that you're pointing out that the money that was meant to be for oncology is on TV. This is an absolutely false alternative. It wasn't an alternative, it wasn't the truth. On the other hand, with regard to the actions that are related to the consistent activities of the President, the President is the President who carried out the adoption of the first Polish cancer plan, the National Oncology Strategy, which took action related to the fight against melanoma. This is the law that was included in the report of the World Health Organization, where the activity of the President of the Republic of Poland in the field of prevention, the fight against melanoma is indicated as a model for other countries. Yes, we want to address the challenges of the functioning of this area of health services as well. The Medical Fund is the legal solution that patients expect. Thank you very much for your support and your declarations of support for this law, because it will help us to take up the tasks that are set out in the law in an efficient and efficient way. That was the purpose of the President's activity when the draft law was directed to the High House. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u535	Thank you, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Maciej Miłkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u536	Dear Marshal! Dear Members and Members, I would like to begin by thanking you very much for this initiative for the Ministry of Health, the National Health Fund. This is an incredibly important initiative, which increases funding, and thus we will be able to definitely better seek the health of patients, Poles. I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for this very smooth procedure on this bill, for listening to all the votes. I also thank Mr Latos, who carried out the entire bill. And now I'm gonna go to a few questions that have come up. We will vote on the amendments at the next stage, and you will also vote, so I will not talk about it, because there will be time for it. Mr Dariusz Klimczak and Mr Hoc raised the issue of the treatment of patients suffering from SMA. Recently, we have actually seen a lot of fundraisers for alternative therapy, which is expected. I would like to say that all patients in Poland suffering from SMA have completely financed treatment. In Poland over 600 people have been treated for 2 years. Even those who have raised funds are being treated in Poland, their treatment has been carried out in Poland and they are still being treated as part of a state and government program. Perhaps they do not believe that this medicine helps because they are receiving two treatments. One is completely financed, so that saying that any patient has to collect anything, there is no basis, because it is financed. As far as screening is concerned, the Ministry of Health is completely in favour. There's a project. We're still working on a screening program. The plan is that in 3 years, because this is a very large project, the entire population has been covered by it. But we actually have a lot of patients who start therapy in the first six months. The best results are in the first year. Now we've practically reached the entire patient population. When it comes to medical equipment purchases, ambulances, this is precisely mentioned for purposes. Last year we financed the first big shopping, an ambulance exchange. This program will continue. This is one of the most important things. Emergency care, emergency care, is one of the most important things about the patient being treated as soon as possible. As far as phenylketonuria is concerned, this is obviously not true because the drug is still funded. He did not fall off the list of medicines reimbursed, but the mechanisms of the bill that was adopted by the Civic Coalition in the previous Seym worked. And what have you done for five years? We believe that in this respect This is a very good decision, because the prices of medicines always fall. I have to say, we're using it. I'm very strongly negotiating drug prices because it's money for more modern therapies. We try to have as good as possible prices for medicines, not only official prices, but also unofficial prices, because refunds to the national fund, which are very large, are also devoted to the financing of drug therapies. As far as the consolidation sub-funds are concerned, of course there is no exemption that county hospitals cannot benefit from this. Only the strategic infrastructure fund is intended for entities of state strategic importance, i.e. clinical hospitals and national hospitals. Of course, we couldn't get into this project with regard to what Mr President presented, to focus on all areas, because if we were to focus on everything... The project clearly defined the objectives of the fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We deal with child psychiatry, psychiatry in its entirety. We took care of it very hard last year. Minister Balicki was a proxy. He's a proxy. Children's psychiatry is now being conducted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u537	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, the rapporteur of the committee, Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u538	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I have such a hot request, let us not really spoil what is in some sense our common success. Of course, the initiative came from the President, but we actually worked together on this bill. Let us not spoil this with the bad emotions that sometimes arise in these questions and, unfortunately, by not saying what is really happening. Perhaps someone just doesn't know something, didn't read it, hence such questions were asked, not others. Really, the atmosphere should be good for everything that's happened. I'm looking at one of the new Members here. I will boldly say: this was the best medical bill of your government, Minister Kopacz and Minister Arłukowicz. Refund bill. She obviously has consequences. Yes, there are consequences that if there is a new drug that is the basis for the refund, then suddenly the prices of other medicines jump up if these prices cannot be reduced again during the negotiations. Please read the very complicated mechanism that the state created in that law in order to protect the Polish market and really Polish finances. The law is very difficult and very brave, but perhaps the best, causes such short-term drug price spikes every once in a while. Then you really have to do something about it, if someone doesn't want to go on the same drug as you do, identical, identical, only produced by someone else, because patents expired, license expired and other manufacturers appeared exactly the same medicine, which is necessarily cheaper. This is what it looks like in practice and, of course, sometimes arouses some kind of emotion, because also my environment for various reasons, I don't want to go into details, I don't really want to sometimes prescribe the same identical drug, just another producer, and stubbornly prescribes the drug of this original producer. The reasons are probably different, not the place to get in. Even that psychiatry. I would have even said something a little different about what Minister Miłkowski said. Civilizational diseases are enshrined in this Act on the Medical Fund. Psychiatric problems are also civilizational diseases. And if there is a lack of money as to what the Ministry of Health is currently doing, it will be possible to respond to psychiatry issues, because such a fund, through its openness, also offers this possibility. The same applies to equal hospital reference degrees. There is no indication that, for example. county hospitals will be shut down. On the contrary, there is no such indication. District hospitals will be able to be beneficiaries as much as possible, for example, of what may have taken an unnecessarily long time to discuss at the committee meeting, namely the exchange of hospital beds. Probably to a greater extent, voivodship or university hospitals are concerned with the exchange of old hospital beds. So, ladies and gentlemen, there's really been a lot that we've done with this bill, as much as we've managed to do about the new therapies that are being started. But, of course, the Medical Fund is not really supposed to replace, where it is sometimes needed, actions, whether it's the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help or some fundraiser, because that's not the point. On the other hand, when it comes to financing all kinds of expensive therapies, probably also those for which these collections are organised - so, as far as possible, there will be a part here, you will be able to mobilise these funds. It's done a lot anyway, because it's not just a matter of SMA, other diseases, other diseases, and listen to the organization of patients who praise me. e.g., and perhaps above all, just Minister Miłkowski too much openness in the introduction of new therapies, [[♪ The bell ♪]] which can and should be refunded. Thank you all once again, thank you, Marshal, and I think that tomorrow we will unanimously adopt this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u539	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Ms Krystyna Skowrońska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u540	Thank you, Marshal, I'd like to correct... But no one has called on you. ...spoken by Minister Fly. I guess the Minister misunderstood me. We talked about funding at the committee meeting, but there are different ways to save expenses. In this case, you have applied a method that is convenient to yourself, without indicating what kind of money it will be. I would like to remind you of the Members who have worked in previous terms that this is possible - I can quote such laws, which specify the amount, not the limit, but the amount, of specific amounts. We're talking about this particular amount. If 4 billion PLN were written there, there would be no discussion. If it is written: up to PLN 4 billion, we suspect that you will try to change these amounts, that it will not amount to PLN 4 billion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If Mr Latos, President, was talking about consensus, we are counting on our amendments and then there will be consensus, we will all welcome this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u541	Thank you very much, Madam President. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the National Media Council (prints No. 605 and 617). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee. Two minutes off. You're an MP, so you don't stop. Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u542	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law amending the Act on the National Media Council, print No. 605. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading on 15 September 2020. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 16 September 2020, asks the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. During the work, the committee introduced a number of legislative amendments and a number of substantive amendments, followed by a strong majority, with several abstentions, with no votes against, it welcomed this draft resolution to the High House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u543	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u544	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Media Council is an important constitutional body of the Polish state, therefore, when the situation arose, that we have a incomplete composition of this council, it was very important to urgently clarify the provisions on how to complete the composition of the Council. Of course, it's about giving the president a chance to determine exactly how the election of opposition clubs will be conducted. This case has been the subject of today's work by the Committee on Culture and Media. The Law and Justice Club has agreed to clarify these provisions so that it is possible to select a representative of the next opposition club smoothly and efficiently so that the National Media Council can act in full and perform its duties. The Law and Justice Club supports this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u545	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u546	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If you write something like that, then suddenly it turns out in practice that you need to improve. There was a law and it is a 2016 law, and here, suddenly, if, for some reason, the membership of one of the members of the Council expires, it is not actually clear how to supplement this composition, how the President is to supplement it. And that's what I'm going to say -- as usual, we're talking about the media, the night is coming, and it's lucky it's not yet midnight -- the reason why we're reporting this project. It's like a purely technical project. Indeed, there would be a problem, so it would be difficult to oppose, and the Civic Coalition club, which I have the honour to represent, of course, voted in favour, because, as a rule, such non-repairs need to be repaired. I would be satisfied, and I would not be sorry for the time either at the committee meeting or here, even if it were midnight, if the amendment to the National Media Council Act consisted in eliminating this advice, because in fact the only real problem with the functioning of the National Media Council is that it, first of all, does not function well - we know, we have considered here an alleged report which does not say anything - makes very bad decisions. The so praised presence of representatives of opposition clubs, indicated by the President of the Republic, is pure fiction, because the council is five members and three members of Law and Justice have enough majority to make all decisions go through. But there's a right for these clubs, so, I repeat, we're not going to be anybody's way to participate in this quasi-work, but at least we're going to be able to figure out what's going on out there and what's the personal policy in the media called why national... So my club this bill, the amendment of the bill will support. But if we're talking about some clarification, we couldn't actually find out, I couldn't find out at the committee meeting why there was a 7-day vacathio legis here, why 7 days. As a rule, such a real deadline, according to legislative technique, is 14 days. He may be shortened, of course, but there must be some very important reasons. Because the most important reason I heard from President Suski was that 7 days is a week, but I allowed myself, but my club allows itself to make an amendment that says that the bill comes into force 14 days after the announcement, because, first, this is the legislative technique, these 14 days, you have to stick to it. This amendment is being passed on. And as I say, I really hope that there will be a project in this House that will end this legislative and legal monster. The National Media Council is not a constitutional body, it is a society of mutual adoration which PiS Members have approved to go there and to act there, taking away constitutional powers from the National Radio and Television Council. That's it. And she's working, breaking the constitution. So the real problem would be her... I mean, she should be eliminated. Well, if you can't, let's at least keep an eye on it. procedures. Thank you for your attention and passing on the amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u547	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz 15. And there's the Left. But did the Left sign up? This is where you have to come in and say that you... I'm really sorry, but it seemed... The club needs to report. Maybe the club didn't complete it. That's why I was even surprised you weren't reported. No, no, sorry, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski. I'm sorry, but... I was surprised. But I thought the club... You're not here. You see you're not here. Maybe not.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u548	Well, then I'm sorry, and thank you very much. I promise you, for a short time, about it. Well, as Mrs Katarasińska rightly said, and you were wrong, the rapporteur, the National Media Council, Mr President, is not a constitutional body, and in principle not the whole problem with this law, because Members of the Left voted in favour of directing this project to the Sejm at second reading and we will support this project as much as the whole problem, which club The left has with the law or institution of the National Media Council, it is precisely that it is not a constitutional body and it was created de facto to deprive the National Radio and Television Council of powers, and it is indeed a constitutional body. But we're not offended by reality, it's what it is. PiS has once decided that the supervision of public media, now known as why national media, will be exercised through the National Media Council, and it is good that the opposition has an insight and can look at the rulers. The way they act in these media, it's a whole different matter. It is a fact that the resignation of one of the members of the National Media Council, which seems to have had a somewhat naive expectation of working style and the way in which national media affairs were conducted by the management of the National Media Council, led to the need for this amendment. We hope that she will pass through the Sejm fairly quickly, and indeed we hope that the opposition will have its representative. It is very important because, according to the Act on the National Media Council, members of the media council and the National Media Council have similar powers as members, members of the supervisory board of the public limited liability company or, in this case, of the State Treasury company. Because power does not sting money, it is what the rulers look at, you can look at hands and watch how they manage these funds. It is enough to say that compared to this time when I was dealing professionally with Polish Television, the budget of this institution - because it is no longer a company, it is an institution - has increased by more than PLN 1 billion. Today it amounts to more than PLN 2.5 billion, of course not from subscription, not from the market, but mainly from various types of subsidies from government or paragovernmental institutions. So that the National Media Council, and especially the members of the parliamentary opposition, would have and have something to do, provided, of course, that the President will actually, in accordance with this amendment, fulfil his obligations and point to one of these opposition groups. For this to happen, this amendment is needed. That's what the Left Club will be voting for. I conclude with this declaration, thanking you very much again for giving me the floor. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u549	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u550	Respected Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, it could be said that what we did today at the Committee on Culture was a clarification of the problems with complementing the National Media Council. As a matter of fact, until the President tabled this amendment, an amendment saying that, first, the two biggest opposition clubs have the right to submit candidates, it did not bring me up to speed. Bigger doubts. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like all parliamentary clubs to sit on the National Media Council. Then there would be an opportunity, ladies and gentlemen, to expect really constructive work from this advice and to point out good conclusions to those who are to review or suggest. Today, ladies and gentlemen, looking at the arithmetic of even our parliamentary committees and what happens during the vote, democracy is, but really outside the ethics committee, whose decisions later the Sejm Bureau de facto repeals, is, ladies and gentlemen, fiction. Fiction, Mr President, unfortunately I must say so. I'm sorry about that amendment. But of course it is good that the opposition can at least watch, because I do not know if it can do anything - it is rather difficult. But we have to live in such times, with such a reality on a daily basis. I hope that someday this will end and maybe there will be a chance that national media will be national media. Good media. Today, unfortunately, I have the feeling that it's a little different. We, ladies and gentlemen, as the Coalition of Poland, hope, of course, that sometimes, although worth knowing, we will support these proposals. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u551	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, the discussion is closed. For the third reading... I'm sorry. In view of the fact that in time... I'm sorry. The question was raised by Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska. No, she's not here. But she's not here, so there's no questions. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 16 September. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? If not, I'm closing the list. Please, Mrs Wanda Nowicka, the Left Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u552	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! It is with great concern that I observe the actions of the PiS government aimed at the autonomy of the University of Silesia. I've already made a few interventions in this case. For several months there have been hearings of students and students of this university who are marked by restrictions on freedom of expression and free expression and evaluation of the curriculum by students in this university. It is the student's fault that they were dissatisfied with the fundamentalist message of one of the lecturers and reported it to the university authorities. Let us remember that higher education consists, among others. the ability to take a critical look at the study program. Meanwhile, the Ministry of Justice took action against students and students, involving law enforcement. They were interrogated for hours, in addition to the presence of Ordo Iuris representatives, fanatical organizations of lawyers who consistently strive to restrict women's rights, restrictions on the rights of homosexuals and other minorities. This case is extremely appalling and bears the mark of a violation of constitutional autonomy of universities, Article. 70 point 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. This concern is shared by the rector of the University of Silesia, Prof. Ryszard Koziołek in media statements, as well as other representatives of this university. There is no place here for prosecutors and police actions or the application of the Penal Code. The initiation of an investigation by the prosecutor's office, particularly prior to the determination of the internal disciplinary action taken by the University of Silesia, is an unjustified involvement of law enforcement authorities and constitutes an act of repressive nature in order, as you may believe, to intimidate students and academics in order to discourage them from taking similar initiatives in the future. By the way, I would like to hear what the Minister of Science and Higher Education thinks about this interference in university autonomy by the prosecution. I'm gonna turn to him on this case with an interpellation. Unfortunately, everything points out that this situation is part of a broader government programme of taking control of higher education and subjecting universities to repression, as well as ideological pressure. This can be proved by the words that Minister Wosia (Dawn) said a few days ago, which suggested that a statutory ban on promoting the ideology of LGBT at universities is planned, as it seems that we are dealing with the depraving of young people. According to a representative of Solidarna Polska, gender studies are also targeted. So we are dealing with a comprehensive, coordinated agenda, which involves violating university autonomy, influencing the study programme, exerting pressure on both scientific staff and students. This is an absolutely unacceptable situation in a European democratic state of law. But as you can see, the governing camp will not go back to anything to subdue its authority to universities as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u553	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u554	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's bad in the Polish Radio Third Program. Not so long ago, the Triple enthusiasts lived by wave to leave the radio station of excellent journalists, among others. Anna Gacek or Wojciech Mann. Then, after the event with Kazik's song on the charts and accusations against Marek Niedźwiecki from the Threesome, others left, among others. such outstanding journalists as Marek Niedźwiecki, Marcin Kydryński, Piotr Metz, Piotr Stelmach and Piotr Kaczkowski. Many Polish musicians have also been cut off from the station. These events caused a wave of outrage to a huge number of fans. The situation was tried to save and heal the new director and longtime journalist of the Triple, Kuba Strzyczkowski. However, last month the Board of Polish Radio dismissed Kuba Strzyczkowski from the position of director because, as stated in the statement: violations of the company's internal rules and procedures, as well as exceeding powers and powers. This situation is so strange that in the defense of the director they were present and former employees of the Three. According to reporters of the Three in the station there has been a sudden exchange of staff, including those conducting individual programmes. Marcin Makowski, a journalist for Rzeczyk and Wirtualna Polski, tweeted a text from a friend of the journalist Triple, quoting: From this morning the replacement of the entire team. People come to work and see that someone else is already sitting in their seats. My broadcast did not go, the Board of Polish Radio is prepared to broadcast a program from Malczewski headquarters in case of rebellion. End of quote. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister of Gliński: What's going on? Is this some kind of revolution? Where in all this confusion is there room for the hearers of the Three? Because it's their radio. In my humble opinion, you're abusing power. If someone says their opinion and it's not PiS's way, you fire people like that. Is this what our country is supposed to be like? I wonder what action you're going to take so that your listeners will want the Threes, as they used to do, faithfully listen. In my opinion, that's almost impossible. As long as you are in power, the chances of getting your listeners back will be near zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u555	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u556	I bow, Marshal. God bless you! High Izbo! The Messenger's statement mode, and therefore, when I say High Izbo, there are actually more crews here. at this later hour than Members of the Hearing Officers. I want to summarize this day, 16, actually from 16 to 17 September 2020. And a funny day and a terrible day. I think that this is a day marked by a deep fall of parliamentarians in Poland's history, a fall to the bottom, and it is not known whether we will ever rise from it again. There, on the other side of the street, where I came from, a bill is still being examined, which you hear a lot about these days. It is about the fur industry, but also about the exporters of Polish beef. This law under the pretext of helping, giving care to animals is, in fact, not even a ritual slaughter, but a ritual murder on Polish farmers who understand best what is being done here. Today, the Act ratifying the agreement on the installation of foreign military bases in the Polish territory was conducted in the High House. In this House, the saying is laughing: only a Polish soldier under arms on Polish soil. It arouses laughter, ridicule, but history will show if we are right, saying that this is a bill: colonization-occupation+, bringing the Teutonic Knights to Poland 2.0. Then they will see our children, grandchildren, if Poland is still there. Well, the law: impunity+ has also been introduced here today, after a month of delay by the Confederacy's opposition. However, this law is an act of lawlessness raised to the rank of a system rule, an abuse of power under the pretext of fighting a pandemic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It is, it will be processed here, I'm afraid, until the end. And tomorrow, the bankruptcy bill+, which means patching the budget hole, comes under discussion. This is my summary of the day on which the Confederacy's voice was regulated more closely than usual, we got half the time allocated to other clubs. That's what the Sejm Bureau decided to do. Thank you, Marshal, for not getting the bell right away chasing me from this podium. I bow down. Have a good night. God bless you. I'm going back to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. It will make you laugh the marshal: They wrote such things in this bill that if this law entered into force and entered into force, and if we were to act in accordance with this law, then everyone who has - let us give it - a bitch who will be ashamed to comply with the requirements of this law, will have to rent a second apartment in the city to ensure decent conditions for the animals that we all care about. God bless you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u557	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u558	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we started investigating the Animal Rights Act. This is a very important act and I will, of course, vote in favour of it. Animal farms in fur cages must be eliminated. That's cruelty. The Civic Coalition also voted in favour of banning the use of earrings for dogs, keeping them on chains - it's just bullying animals. We are also in favour of banning the use of animals in circuses for human entertainment, because the measure of our humanity is our attitude towards animals, our sensitivity to the pain of others. This also shows an increase in culture in society. However, it is necessary to compensate farmers and farmers for the eradication of these farms. They should receive support because they are companies that hold many employees, hundreds of employees. Ladies and gentlemen! In the 21st century in the European Union, we cannot tolerate the suffering of animals or the nightmare of neighbouring farms. I hope that this time the PiS will not give in to the Director of Father Rydzyk, as it was in the previous term of the Sejm, and will lead to the conclusion of this law that is so important to animals, which can really help them in their lives, as well as - I repeat once again - determine our society, our sense of humanity and our attitude towards animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u559	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u560	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! September 17 is a special date in the history of Poland. On that day in 1939 Poland, heroically defending itself against the aggression of Nazi Germany, was treacherously attacked by Soviet Russia, which began fulfilling the provisions of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact. For millions of Poles, residents of the Eastern Kresów, the nightmare of the Soviet occupation began, for many of them ended with exports to Siberia, and for tens of thousands - death. In 2013, the Sejm adopted a resolution on the establishment of the Sybiracy Day on that day. For those who have had these tragic experiences, this was the culmination of their long-term efforts to honor the victims of the Soviet aggressor. In regions where there are large clusters of people from Eastern Kresów, this date is celebrated in a special way, and the most important participants of these celebrations are the Sibirak community. That's what happens, for example. in the Western Pomerania, which is a region and its inhabitants I have the honour of representing in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Unfortunately, the session of the Sejm convened for this day will not allow many parliamentarians to attend local celebrations commemorating the attack of the Soviets on Poland. We will not be allowed to pay tribute to the heroes of those days. We will not personally be able to pay our respects to those who have experienced the nightmare of those days, nor will we be able to commemorate those who have remained there forever. I find it difficult to understand why Marshal Witek did not take these circumstances into account when setting the time for the Sejm's sitting. There's a lot of questions on your lips. Why is your marshal depreciating the dimension of this day through his actions? Because it does not appear that this is due to your party's line of conduct, which is persistently attacking the Germans who are now our ally, and it is very abstinently commenting on Russia's actions, which often have nothing to do with our ideas of a democratic state of law. Would your Marshal be kind to take into account the fact that, in the event that the Sejm is held on a day which is not a public holiday, but is customarily a celebration celebrated by local communities and social organisations, this prevents Members, especially Members of the so-called. territory, participation in important events? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u561	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u562	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Today was a day that was actually very much dominated by the emotions associated with the Animal Protection Act. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, when I came to this House, I thought that we would be able to talk, so that the law that we are going to make is the essence of all that we as Members and Members bring to this House. But, ladies and gentlemen, where is the analysis of the socio-economic and legal impact of what are we looking at today? Where is the public consultation, especially with the environments affected by these changes? Where are the scientists' opinions? Very banal question: What will happen to this waste from poultry and fish production? For example, in the Western Pomerania we have been and are one of the leaders in the disposal of fur animals. It's gonna have to be burned. Someone's gonna pay for it, somebody's gonna pay for more expensive fish and chickens. Come on. In this crisis, can we afford as a state to lose our jobs so that we lose our taxes so we can reduce exports? With the recent, or actually ongoing ASF, the alternative was cattle farming. What will these people be offered today? What kind of business are they gonna switch to? I am surprised that the Polish state is so easily abandoning the very important area of agriculture, which is one of the pillars of export. And cattle breeding in this case on the so-called. The ritual slaughter market - whether poultrymeat or beef - is an important part of the economy. According to the information heard and presented, it is about PLN 5 billion per year in terms of exports. It's not a small amount. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, what about the Constitutional Tribunal, which explicitly ruled in 2014 (The Bell) that it was incompatible with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, and which then decided, made it clear that this slaughter could be done? Constitution of the Republic of Poland in the same article. 190 provides that the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal is in force and is final. But for who? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-16-sejm-17-1.u563	Thank you very much, sir. That's the end of the parliamentary declaration. I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. by 17 September 2020 at the latest 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 22 min 56]]
