ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u1	Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. Before I read the usual formulas, I will remind you that since Saturday there have been other sharpenings associated with the fight against the pandemic. I'm glad you senators and guests respect them. Senator Pupa, I'd like to ask you to... Oh, no, there's a visor. It's just so beautifully transparent. [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes, it is.]] ...that you can barely see it. Congratulations. I would like to extend my regards to all the senators and to the senators from Ambassador Anders before the official opening of the session. I had the pleasure of visiting her yesterday during her recovery after an accident that happened to her during the Battle of Monte Cassino. She asked me to say that she longed for the company of the senators and senators and that she would visit us in the Senate as soon as possible. The ambassador is rehabilitating very quickly, she's a brave and tough woman. So that I fulfill her wishes and give you all my warmest greetings to former colleagues from the Senate. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Mr. and Mrs. Senators from the Senate building, please check to see if you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. I would like to inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are voting to establish the list of senators taking part in the meeting. Then I ask you to cast any vote to confirm your presence. There you go. Please state the results of the vote. 82 senators voted. [[Voting No 68]] So many senators are attending the sitting at the moment. In O.R. 217, I see... Wasn't there a problem with the voices going away? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Okay. Good. Thank you very much. High Senate! I would like to inform you that on 1 July 2020, the Attorney General provided the Senate with a clear annual information on the total number of persons subject to a request for control and retention of interviews or an application for operational control. This document is contained in print No 157. On 3 July 2020, I sent this information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of the document and informed me at its meeting on 14 July. I would like to inform you that on 10 August 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers informed the Senate of the implementation in 2019 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on supporting the family and the foster care system. This document is contained in print No 181. On 11 August I sent this information to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The committees took note of the document and informed me of it. High Senate, I inform you that on 28 August the President of the Council of Ministers handed over to the Senate a document on road safety and the activities carried out in this regard in 2019. This document is contained in print No 197. On 4 September 2020, I sent information to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. Commissions on 12 October this year they have read this document. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Animal Protection Act and some other laws and consider it as item 15 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, today at 12:00 p.m., a half-hour break will be announced during which the exhibition will be opened by John Paul II defender of the rights of the nations. I would also like to inform you that the Law and Justice Club has requested a longer three-hour period after the debate, before voting on the Animal Protection Act. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Animal Protection Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print 209 and the Commission's reports in print 209 A and 209 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on our work, which lasted for one sitting, but which takes place on several dates: 24 September, 9 and 12 October, until late evening. As far as our business is concerned... I think that it will be possible to say a few words about the justification of the law, because this law, so-called. Five... Also, the opinion on the bill, prepared by the Legislative Office, indicates the elements that are discussed in this law and which are the most important for us. That's attention. animals that we all care about, and that is the solution that everyone expects. Yeah, but she's also violating... They are pointed out, mostly by farmers, certain dangers and hence at our committee meeting there was quite a discussion. On the first day it was possible for various organisations to submit proposals, i.e. on 24 September we listened to the voices of many, many organisations who submitted their comments, applications for rejection and many, many amendments. Nearly 60 organizations have applied to me. These proposals have been gathered, these proposals have been submitted here to all committee members. Our Commission has addressed, you can say, literally dozens of amendments. As for most of the proposals that have been submitted and developed by the Legislative Office, we had the opportunity to discuss them. Our committee has made proposals both for rejecting this law and for correcting it. This law actually raised a lot of controversy, and therefore our work was quite, you can say, long and at the same time moments. Nervous. It can be said that most of the organizations that came to us spoke quite harshly, quite critically, so it was not easy to listen to an opinion about how Parliament works, how we are treated. Listening to these organizations has resulted in our final work. As of yesterday, the amendments were tabled by Marshal Mark Pęka, who tabled 7 amendments. These amendments take account of certain expected solutions. Farmers and not only farmers are expecting them, because they are also expecting residents... Well, this bill has come very restrictively... I would like to point out that the biggest problem raised during the work was the problem of entering farms, the problem of entering apartments, i.e. the so-called. intervention by organizations that have been given a very high authority to enter with the police... There were many, many other charges here, we watched videos on which we saw, how the organizations behaved very well, and some very bad, we could say scandalously. If such records had been maintained, it would not have been possible to approach this law so lightly and to say that it could have passed without amendments. I would like to point out that this most dangerous record, which speaks of entering farms, housing, raised the most opposition. I would also like to point out that this law has been amended several times. First of all, 28 September 2002; the next changes that further tightened up this rigor were the changes of 1 January 2012. You could say that there was a possibility of collecting animals here. And if the earlier record was milder, then the record that was last entered... Well, the words "can be answered" were deleted in 2012. It's right there, it automatically picks up. So here you can see how... In 2012, when this law was passed, when such powers were given to organisations, there were such great scandals, showing how farmers are treated, how cat farmers, dogs are treated, etc. So, I think that went too far in 2012. And today, the applicants, instead of reaching out, went very hard, increasing their skills... Hence our resistance, our senate agricultural commission. He's very clear. You can't do that, you just have to change it. And it's a good thing that the government is now, also through your Marshal Pop, who has made these amendments, going a little further. But at the committee meeting yesterday, we were upset that... how is it possible that you made a concession and agreed that poultry could be religious slaughter and there was no problem exporting it, and you didn't agree to introduce the possibility of slaughter ritual cattle as well? 'Cause if we're gonna bring in one thing, we're gonna bring in the other. And that's why it caused a great deal of appallment at our committee meeting yesterday. And our demands, the Senate's agricultural committee, are that the applicant state should accept it, and the government approved, just as the Prime Minister appealed yesterday... The point is that we should be able to introduce a completely permitted slaughter, not give a period, say, 12 months, because it's been there since January 1st... Not to bring compensation here. Why spend money from the state budget, taxpayers' money on damages? This is a misunderstanding. in such a difficult crisis. And why, e.g. 12 months? I explained it, and now I'm going to say, if anybody starts making cattle, it's a burning period, nine months, and then almost two years... So it takes at least three years for him to be able to carry the cattle he has and is planned to sell and not bear the costs. Why are you only moving in for a year? Why even bring it in? That's what our committee's appeal is about. And that's why committee members voted against this bill yesterday. They don't agree with that. They're appealing here today, too. I can speak on behalf of the committee. - to go further and introduce such a solution here, so that point 3 of Article is deleted. 1 which gives organisations the right to enter holdings. And then there are institutions... This is the opposite, this is some solution that already gives safety, makes us feel safe as citizens that we will not be surveillance, entering the house, entering the farm, that unauthorized persons who have no experience will not take animals as we have done so far. Because if you want to call an institution like this... It's supposed to be a vet, maybe a separate veterinary section. Maybe it's not necessarily the whole new institution that needs to be set up, because so far, veterinary services have been doing it. Maybe we need to think about this solution, which the government is proposing to set up a special inspection, but it can only separate it from the veterinary system, power the veterinary system with more funding. Maybe there's no need for a new institution. That's what I'm paying attention to. But if you decide there's gonna be a new institution, an inspection, well, that's fine, it's gonna be a new one. But there's no need for new vocations. And that's what we pointed out at the committee meeting. Therefore, do not be surprised that our committee, although so many different good amendments are being tabled, has expressed strong opposition and does not agree to such treatment in this version of the law. That's why I'm asking you on behalf of the committee... Our proposal is to reject the law, and the minority proposals will be presented here by a colleague Jacek Bogucki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u3	Thank you very much, senator. We will present the speeches of all the rapporteurs and the rapporteurs of the minority, and then there will be questions. I now ask the rapporteur for minorities of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jack Bogucki, to present the proposals of the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! On behalf of the applicants, I present minority proposals for the law contained in the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Mr Chróścikowski presented the discussion that took place at the meeting of this committee. However, yesterday's amendments were tabled, a significant number of amendments to this law and 7 of them we want to present as a minority proposal. These amendments are in line with the announcement by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, they are in line with the government's announcements regarding changes to this law and take into account some of the proposals of the agricultural community And there were dozens of them, probably hundreds or thousands of them. That came down to us. The amendments concern changes which appear to be a compromise proposal to remove certain inconsistencies from the bill, but above all to lead to a situation where the expectations of improving animal living and, on the other hand, the expectations of supporting agriculture are met, the expectations of leaving agricultural activities in certain areas. The first proposal deals with the issue of slaughter without stunning. The amendment is that in the case of poultry it would still be permitted to slaughter in a special way required by the religious rite. In the second change and in the fourth change, we refer to issues related to animal shelters. Entrepreneurs who have run hostels so far, good hostels, according to this amendment, will be able to continue to run them by getting, of course, already on new terms, an entry in the register; they have 6 months to do so. This exclusion, which in fact was not entirely precise in the Act, because it was not certain what it meant by the organizational unit running the hostel, now it is already clarified, so that hostels will be able to run both municipal organizational units and entrepreneurs as well as associations. As regards the issues related to the next amendment, Amendment 3, this is a clarification of the issues related to the mandate procedure. Amendments 5 and 6 shall be amended or, in fact, specified rules for the award of compensation. On the one hand, it is a change concerning compensation already enshrined in the Act which came out of the Sejm, i.e. for entrepreneurs, for farmers engaged in the field of fur animals and for entrepreneurs. This is in the amendment of the sixth animal slaughter activity. But a very fundamental change in the sixth amendment is to include this compensation scheme also for farmers engaged in animal farming activities which have so far been slaughtered in the manner provided for by religious rites of religious associations. In both of these provisions there is a delegation to the Council of Ministers to lay down detailed rules, but there is a question of covering actual losses for the limitation or cessation of that activity. So this provision on the one hand gives a delegation to the Council of Ministers, but on the other hand determines that the actual losses resulting from the implementation of these provisions will be covered. And the seventh amendment, which concerns the date of entry into force of the law. The bill does not enter within one month of this amendment. As it has been written so far, only on January 1, next year. Some changes occur after 6 months, and these changes are associated with, among others. with slaughter for religious unions or livestock breeding, would enter on 1 January 2022. These changes will certainly be welcomed by the environment, because, as I said, such proposals have often been made. And I would like to thank the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for accepting these changes. Although the project is parliamentary, changes, which concern, for example, compensation payments or changes that have financial implications, always require agreement with the government and simply require funds to finance them. So, High Senate, if the proposal to reject the law would not be accepted, I would recommend and ask for the support of these amendments, because they are actually beneficial to everyone and implement the demands that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u5	Thank you very much, senator. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Marek Borowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! First of all, I would like to say that this is not the first time that the Senate has come to contend with a law completely unprepared, badly prepared, which has not undergone any consultation process in the Sejm. It wasn't much that she didn't go through the consultation process, it was a procedure. I won't hesitate to say it. Outrageous, within 1 day. A law that radically enters into the current economic system, which is also very radical in the way of animal protection, is adopted within 1 day, amendments are rejected and the discussion is virtually nothing. All of this definitely has a political basis. It's hard to hide at all. The effects are, I must say, dramatic. These protests that we have been observing for a week, which are also happening today, huge protests, show that it is simply not right to make laws, so it is not right to conduct politics. Fortunately, the Senate is a place where we can still discuss where citizens can be heard. But, of course, our capabilities are limited as well. We are making amendments, but these are not final amendments, these are, you can say, proposals for the Sejm. Yeah, but we're trying to do the best we can. Mr Chróścikowski was just talking about how the Committee on Agriculture worked. Similarly, the Legislative Commission may have worked on the subject of the so-called "laws committee'. a public hearing, which in fact was the first meeting of the Legislative Commission, to an even wider extent. We invited all interested parties to the meeting, and this was a lot of organisations, both agricultural, producer and animal welfare organisations, those that care about animal welfare. We have also asked for a number of opinions, opinions on the economic impact of these decisions, as well as on the legislative, legal and constitutional evaluation of these provisions. We had a relatively short time for this, but these opinions were presented. And what was particularly characteristic of the opinions on the consequences of the ban on religious slaughter or the breeding of fur animals? Specialists, experts who prepared these opinions, started with words: we do not have full data; in such a short period we were not able to obtain all the data; it would take a long time, so we are only presenting some approximate information or information resulting from some partial, fragmented research. This has shown, ladies and gentlemen, how the government... I will not hesitate to tell the government, even though it was a bill from the Parliamentary submission, but we have already become accustomed to the fact that the Government of Law and Justice circumvents the rules of correct legislation and laws that should be prepared by the competent authorities of the government and subjected to the whole consultation procedure, throws in by means of parliamentary projects. This has shown, the concerns of these experts have shown how little we know about this and at the same time we are forced to make a decision. I told you about this in order to show you this atmosphere, that, you might say, the legal environment, the substance of our meetings, our meetings. Under these conditions, we had to make certain decisions on amendments concerning what should be amended in this law. This bill has, of course. 2 main parts. One part concerns animals, let's say to ourselves, mainly non-breeding, i.e. pets or farm animals, but such as dogs or cats, above all, livestock in the sense that there are dogs in rural farms that perform different functions, but in any case they are not as typical domestic dogs as in cities. That's one part. And for years there have been discussions on how to ensure the best living conditions for these animals, so-called. well-being... There are questions about how to react to improper behavior with these animals, to abuse them. Senator Chróścikowski spoke here about changes in the regulations that took place. Well, they were caused by certain situations, of course. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We as a society... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'm asking for discipline. If you want to talk, please, clouurs are at your disposal.]] We as a society, and it is not only the Polish society, we gradually change our attitude towards animals. That's what you have to remember. It even gained its international name animal tour, turning to animals. And Poland neither wants nor should be on the sidelines of this process. Therefore, this part of the law was absolutely justified. Also issues related to where we need to go, where we can't give up consumption... The idea is that this slaughter should be carried out under humanitarian conditions. That, of course, is part of this bill. Finally, the issue of fur animals, which in fact aroused the least controversy. I'm not gonna justify this on purpose. Here, too, it has been recognised that such activities are not essential for man. Thus, it can be said that the general intentions of this law were going in the right direction, while the solutions proposed in it were no longer in the right direction. Of all the comments that have been made at our first meeting, we have drawn up a rather substantial table. Of course, there were proposals that were mutually exclusive. There were supporters of solutions that were going more in the direction of the animal, and those who thought that some solutions were going too far. Of course, we had to choose something out of it, we had to make a decision in the vote. I would like to make it clear that such votes, in which everyone had one opinion, were almost gone. Well, maybe in the case of legislative amendments, of course. Overall, the results of the votes were mixed, and in general some proposals were passed by a small majority. First of all, animal welfare issues. One of the amendments accepted by the committee, quite extensive I personally consider this amendment to be extremely important and important. It introduces the whole new chapter, so to speak. And that is the thing that was requested during our first sitting also by veterinary inspection, namely the so-called order. animal chipping. The chipping of animals is happening today, but it's voluntary, there's no central register. However, from other countries' experiences This came up at our committee meeting, and that's what we got. That where there's an obligation to chip animals, where, in short, an animal that we don't know where its owner is... This owner may be identified. So that in such countries the problem of homeless animals is radically reduced, and therefore the problem of shelters for these animals is also reduced, with all the issues that these shelters entail. And that's the first amendment I wanted to talk about. Of course, I highly recommend it to you. Secondly, the issue of intervention mentioned by Senator Chróścikowski, the intervention of NGOs in connection with the suspicion of animal abuse or the misuse of animals. Well, it's complicated. We know from the media... Many cases have been shown to prove that the attitude toward animals can be extremely cruel. In situations like this, you have to step in. On the other hand, there were situations where the owners of these animals felt it as interference in their privacy, unfounded. There were various proposals for amendments that had a little, you can say, tighten up the rules of these checks, but they were increasingly bureaucratic. In this respect, however, the concept was overcome to give up any changes in this area and to leave the existing state, which was not a bad state, was a state in which NGOs could intervene. However, further, so to speak, increasing their powers in this area has not been recognised by the committee. We know from the Prime Minister's announcement that the government would like to create a separate organization, some kind of animal protection inspection, a State Animal Protection Inspection. Presumably I can only say that this is a multiplication of beings beyond the need. There's a veterinary inspection. Rather, you have to use those organs that are already there. We just have here bureaucracy of the whole process plus, of course, new jobs for those who need to. Thirdly, we have adopted some amendments. I'm not going to discuss them in detail here. We have adopted some amendments that improve animal welfare. They concerned the conditions of the owner's creation to the animal. It was mostly about dogs. This is a matter of imprisonment, this is a matter of pens, an old case, which has been raised many times, about dogs being treated more humanely. Several such amendments have been adopted. Then there was the matter of the shelters. The hostels have so far been, as we know, run by various entities, including private entities. The media showed that in some shelters run by private individuals for profit, the conditions created by animals were dramatically bad. Therefore, in the law that came to us, which we discussed, there was a proposal to remove private entrepreneurs from the records at all to give up such shelters in a rather fast manner. After discussions, analyses and expertise, the committee concluded that this would be a step too far. Our proposal is to leave this possibility, except that, as far as a private person has just started such an activity as an entrepreneur, it will now be able to do so on the basis of the execution of the commune's order. Thus, the municipality will still be responsible for what will happen there, whether it is a private person or an association created to protect animals or simply a municipal unit that will be established for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the main amendments to animal welfare. I would like to stress that this part of the rules, generally speaking, was going in the right direction and did not cause such a great controversy. There is one minority request, which you will be presenting to Senator Kwiatkowski, a proposal on welfare benefits for dogs who have been withdrawn from the service. The rule that is now in the bill that has come to us seems insufficient and has not received the support of the majority. Senator Kwiatkowski will present this issue more fully. As far as the second part is concerned, i.e. on the issue of bans, bans on breeding and bans on slaughter, various applications have been made in this case. A request was made to remove the ban on religious slaughter in general, which was not supported by the majority of them, as well as a request for longer vacathio legis for both of them, so to speak. And in the case of furry, and in the case of slaughter of vacathio legis, it would be 10 years old, but this application also did not gain the support of the majority. We did not deal with the issue of compensation here, although it was clear to us that it was the subject of debate at this first meeting of the committee, this was already the case at the time. That the provisions that concern compensation or compensation are blank provisions that do not guarantee anything. Nevertheless, it is a matter of government. It is up to the government to make such proposals. Well, that's the only way to respond to these proposals. I understand that such proposals have been made, but it will depend on the senators as long as they are accepted. Other proposals may also be made. I'm getting to the conclusion. Ladies and gentlemen, these amendments have been adopted in a total of several dozens. As I said, these were also minor amendments, and they were also legislative amendments. They're all showing what I've been talking about. It was a terrible way to prepare this law. She's probably not gonna be perfect even after these adjustments. Probably something else will be found, there will probably be other errors, some wrongly constructed links, etc., etc. However, there is a general intention in this law, and it, as we have to say, causes that many people are waiting for this law. This intention is to increase animal welfare and also to eliminate certain Well, let's call it cruel methods of killing them. This, of course, motivates a lot of people to correct this bill, not to say, throw it in the trash, but I must say that the choice between these two options is certainly very difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u7	Thank you very much, senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Legislative Commission, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u8	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today in Poland we are dealing with the still unfinished issue of pensions for animals performing their duties within the framework of the so-called. service objectives in the various uniformed services. In a special way, of course, we are talking about dogs and horses. It is embarrassing that for so many years we have not been able to regulate the issue of animals that, after a long period of training and an even longer period of human service, do not have a pension. It is about a time when, after a long period of work, they are no longer able to carry out their duties. The law adopted by the Sejm does not regulate the amount of the benefit to be received by the keeper of the animal on the so-called. animal retirement. Therefore, by presenting an amendment to the minority to you, I would like to point out that it not only introduces such a benefit, but also regulates its amount, providing that the benefit will not be lower than the funds provided for the maintenance of that animal by the service. Whether it was the National Tax Administration, customs, border services or police or order services Not less than the amount of funds already spent to keep the animal in service. Why do we propose that this benefit be no lower than the money that has been spent on this animal so far? Remember, this animal is already at an age in which he cannot perform his duties, this is also the age in which, for example. The expenditure needed for veterinary care will only increase. We therefore present this proposal, pointing out to you that the proposal contained in the parliamentary draft did not regulate the amount of this benefit at all, referring in this regard to the provisions of the sub-law and not even specifying the minimum amount of that benefit. That is the fundamental difference between this and the proposal that we are presenting to you. The correction of minorities, first of all, determines the minimum amount of the benefit; second, determines the rules and the deadline for paying it; third, determines the form of transfer to the new owner, namely the conclusion of a special agreement for this purpose; fourthly, it is simply expected, it is an expression of our humanity, the idea of thanking animals that have been used for many years in the service of man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u9	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You've come forward, Professor Alicia Chybick. A question for Senator Chróścikowski. Senator Chybick, please, in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question concerns horses. At the committee meeting... It is actually addressed not only to Senator Chróścikowski, but also to the other rapporteurs. Firstly, was the issue of Janów Podlaski mentioned by the Members of the Civic Coalition, the conditions under which horses can be bred? Was this discussed? And in the opinion of the rapporteurs and the members of the committees to which I am not part, will the horses be secured, in terms of their breeding, their existence, in a proper manner? The second question concerns horse racing. As far as I know, the racing environments are protesting against records restricting the possibility of organising these horse races. Was this mentioned at the committee meeting, and were there any amendments in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u11	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u12	When it comes to horses, let me be honest, horses usually have very good conditions. It can be said that in some studs they have better conditions, in others worse, but the requirements laid down by the law, or actually by the EU rules that speak about animal welfare... The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has a duty to control and control the so-called. reciprocity, which says that all requirements imposed by legislation must be met. In case of non-compliance e.g. the welfare conditions of the animals shall be deprived of direct payments to farmers in part or in full. Therefore, there are penalties, there are sanctions imposed by the Agency for Restructuring and Modernisation in respect of the cultivation and cultivation of plants, together. It's so-called. mutual compatibility, conditions that must also be fulfilled within the framework of well-being. I was personally very pleasantly surprised when I was in Janów Podlaski and saw places of burial of very famous horses, which lived, for example. 30 years. There are beautiful stones showing... well, the memory of our most beautiful animals is simply honored. There's an example. The boulder on which it says what kind of horse it was. So you can see that it's called. respect for these great pedigree horses world-famous. So you can say that there is respect for these horses in Janów. Sometimes things are brightened up, but it is that in some studs the conditions are better, and in other studs it is just like in the stud in Janów, where there is a historical object and unfortunately there are conditions such as in the case of historical monuments, historical objects, and under these conditions horses are bred. But it is not that animal welfare has not been secured, because animal welfare is protected. It may be said that there could be even better conditions, but under those conditions which are in studs, the welfare of animals is fully secured. That's all I can say about it. As far as horse racing is concerned, it was indeed discussed at the committee meeting, i.e. There's been talk of training animals, talking about not being... It was especially about animals in the circus. It was also noted that there are competitions in which horses take part and to which they need to practice. And when it comes to racing, that's what we were talking about. But of course, as you know, these amendments on which discussions were being discussed were not taken into account by the committee, because a motion to reject the law was accepted, but there is also a minority proposal, so that those amendments which... I know that the senators will be making amendments today, which have not been taken into account in the committee meeting, so that amendments are still to be tabled.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u13	Thank you very much, senator. You ask Senator Jan Filip Libicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, it is worth noting that, at the request of our Polish Coalition, PSL, kindly accepted by your marshal, the procedure for examining this law by the Senate lasted almost 30 days. I would like to ask you if you know why this procedure in the Seym was so fast, it took so long to break all parliamentary customs. In your opinion, was it appropriate to proceed as to what was done with this law in the Sejm and the pace at which it was passed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u15	To be honest, I don't like criticizing the Sejm because they're criticizing us, too. So I wouldn't want to be critical of the Sejm because what can be used was used in accordance with the rules. So it can be said that the rules allow this possibility, and so it was done. I'm gonna say so from myself that I'm sorry about the so-called. The agreement over the divisions led to 11 hours of work at the agricultural committee meeting. The opposition has always rebelled, disturbed, prevented from working, and in this case the opposition has been dragging... striving to finish this meeting as much as possible. So some kind of agreement between, I'd say, a cross-party has caused this mode of operation. Because if it weren't, ladies and gentlemen, I suspect there wouldn't be such a way of working, and maybe it would look different. But they made a cross-party agreement, in my opinion, to the members of the committee, whose opinions I cannot express here. And in my opinion, this cross-party agreement has led to this. [[Voice from the room: How do you know that?]] I suppose, like I said, 'cause if it looked different, I'm sure... You often block jobs, not block jobs in the Sejm. [[Voice from the room: You're wrong.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u16	Thank you very much. You are asking the question of Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u17	Mr President, you said that the Committee on Agriculture proposed that this law be rejected in its entirety, but you did not say what the agreement was. Please tell us how many senators were in favour of, how many were against, how many abstained, so that we could just be clear about what the discussion at the committee meeting looked like, because the result of the vote is also the result of the discussion at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u18	Of course. Even at the beginning of the sitting, there was a very difficult situation, because Senator Bober, as an applicant, submitted an application, could be said, in the third part of the sitting, which is yesterday, to move immediately to the vote and to vote against the bill. This is where some turmoil arose, because all the requests had to be sent. It wasn't a mix-up done... But we have sorted out the situation and the motion of Senator Bebra to reject the bill, which had not previously been filed as a motion, has proved to be the farthest proposal. And after hearing Senator Pak's conclusions and after discussing and expressing our opposition... As I said before, as farmers, we do not agree that this is how our agriculture is treated and that compensation is paid from the state budget. We farmers believe that we should consider it appropriate ourselves when we leave production and when we do not leave; the market shows it. Yeah, but the actions that the government was trying to fix... And there was a vote on that first motion. And the first motion to reject the bill was, of course, filed by Senator Bebra... And eight senators voted against, two abstentions, that's the whole squad. Nobody voted against... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Sorry, eight senators voted in favour. I was wrong. So 8 senators voted in favour of the motion for rejection, 2 abstentions and no vote against. In fact, it can be said that the committee supported without opposition, almost unanimously. [[Voice in the O.R.: Rejection.]] Rejection. I'm talking about a motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u19	You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have questions for both senators of the rapporteurs. I'm gonna ask you the first question. Now that he's on the stand, Senator Chróścikowski. Namely, what is the issue of notification of this law? I'm asking because there are very vague signals about this. Some claim that this procedure has been initiated, others claim that before the end of this procedure the law should not be procedated. What does this issue look like in the evaluation of the committee and your president? And second question, Mr. Marshal Borowski. It concerns the issue of compensation. Because I understand that the Legislative Commission has adopted a mechanism for seeking these compensations. Could you give the marshal a closer look at this mechanism? One of the allegations that occurred during the debate It was in the expert's opinion that the existing provision in the law on compensation was so enigmatic that hypothetically a farmer who considers that he is suffering losses would not even be a party to civil proceedings concerning non-compete to some extent of compensation. If the marshal wanted to bring it up to speed... Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u21	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Chróścikowski, and then Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u22	Of course, there was talk at the committee meeting, and earlier, many representatives of the organisation pointed out that this law should be notified. As regards the amendments, there was no such amendment, which had to be done because it was considered that this law should not have been adopted at all since there was no notification. Such voices were cast at the committee meeting by many representatives. And in my experience, this legislation should be notified because it cannot enter into force if it is not notified. We've had a couple of cases like this that we voted out here. Even agricultural legislation And which were accepted, but still do not apply, because there was no notification, consent to the functioning. And, for example, in one part the law operates, and in that part which has not been notified, does not apply in Poland because there is no notification. For me, the most dangerous thing is how to find the money from the state's payout budget. Firstly, if there is a notification and agreement, the European Commission can express its acceptance from its own resources or grant funds under the common agricultural policy for this type of compensation. But there is no such agreement here, and I understand that without consent it will be very difficult for the European Commission to pay compensation, because European Union law does not allow it. The only rule that allows is the so-called one. de minimis aid, but the de minimis measures are already being used as a result of the 2-year drought period, because we paid... We couldn't even pay in a given year. In the case of last year's measures, in order to address the problem of measures which are not paid under the de minimis framework, this was done in connection with COVID as the farms were falling. Therefore, part of the funds were paid by the fact that the covid mechanism had worked and could be paid out. Otherwise, you can't do it. Without the consent of the European Commission, farmers will not be able to pay compensation in this respect. That's my knowledge. This may be explained differently by the government, but at the moment my knowledge is that without the consent of the European Commission, agriculture cannot be supported in this form.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Borowski. [[If you don't mind, I'll be there.]] Of course. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u24	I was talking about it, Mr. Senator, that the experts, of course, paid attention to the fact that both the period of the so-called. the withdrawal, as well as the compensation system that has been saved in the bill, are absolutely inadequate. Periods are too short. I didn't tell you about it, but this bill, if it came into force in the form it is now, provides that the ban on religious slaughter will enter into force 30 days after its publication. I repeat, 30 days. Then we heard from Marshal Terletki that it was a mistake. Well, ladies and gentlemen, how can you make such mistakes in such a case? So, of course, it was pointed out that this annual period is too short and, as far as the 30-day period is concerned, there is nothing to talk about at all. It was also noted that the compensation provisions are blank. That's what I'm talking about. However, the Legislative Board did not undertake... i.e. The Senators of the Legislative Commission did not undertake this effort to develop the whole system, expecting the government to take this issue. Because we heard from Senator Chróścikowski that there were some suggestions Although it is the minority's conclusions It is now possible to analyze them and to respond to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u26	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur, Senator Chróścikowski, if I may. Mr President, I would like to ask how the government will safeguard the interests of workers, entrepreneurs and farmers who will lose their income in connection with the entry into force of this law. In your opinion, have you prepared an analysis of how much this could cost the state budget? What are the compensations for farmers, entrepreneurs or self-government units? We know that this must be very honest and honest. If the government wants to shut down fur farms, it's gotta have the resources. For example, the Czech Republic paid compensation of EUR 570 per mink female, while Norway paid EUR 1 000. Is the government aware of the amounts? And my second question. As far as compensation for closing fur farms is concerned, who exactly will be paying the money? Because I didn't hear that. Will it be the Ministry of Agriculture? Who will the owners actually have to report to? What are the specific procedures and conditions that will have to be met in order to obtain this compensation? And my third question. The problem is closing fur farms. But is the closure of a farm for the export of slaughtered cattle in accordance with the rules of ritual slaughter... They're pulled. We all know that. By the owners of loans for investment purposes. These are huge loans. Will the State repay its loans? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u27	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u28	Indeed, in this law, as my previous speaker pointed out, the draftsman of the committee pointed out in the law that came out of the Sejm are the so-called words. Blankets, where compensation is said to be made, there is no detail. In what the government has put forward in the amendment, this compensation is mentioned. It is said that a regulation will determine the body or entity competent to grant the compensation referred to in paragraph. 1 and the detailed conditions and arrangements for granting such compensation, taking into account the actual losses incurred for the cessation of farming or rearing of fur animals for the purpose of obtaining fur from them. Well, it's a provision that refers to the regulation for details, so it's hard for me to relate more to what the government is proposing here. If there's any questions to the government, please pay attention, maybe more than that... Such an amendment was made to me in committee, but it received only the minority support of the committee. But it's hard to talk about other things, because that's a case, I'd say, actually counting. If the government is talking about a regulation, then it has to prepare all things if you want to fully... There were amendments tabled to me in the committee, they were proposed by the employers' union, they signed on to, as I recall, Mr Kaźmierczak showed... Even such an amendment is prepared, she would be signed by three senators, she was prepared by the Legislative Bureau... But since the government has decided that it is to be resolved in this way by law, we have resigned, and I will not make such an amendment. As far as the banks are concerned, the banks in my committee were very strong, especially the association of cooperative banks, saying that the loans that the holdings have taken up could lead to the bankruptcy of the banks, because these are high loans and they cannot function like this... As a result, the banks claimed that, in the event of payment of such compensation, part of the repayment would have been secured, the banks would have wished that the repayment of the loans would first have been secured. We were told that if the bank didn't get the money... If a farmer is in a difficult situation and has any obligations to pay, he can pay other liabilities instead of repaying the loan to the bank, and there will be a disaster for the farmer because there will be a recovery of the farm or the company. Indeed, the banks strongly insist that, if compensation is to be made, they expect such action, at least in part, to be paid off by instalments of loans that are unpaid and that the business is cancelled. That's all I can say about the banks that actually asked for it, there were their representatives at my committee meeting and they were talking about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u29	Thank you. Senator Adam Szejnfeld, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Rapporteur, Mr. Senator, I would like to ask... There are expert reports on the impact on the economy, on the economy, also on the issue of animal attraction, but there are also expert reports on the constitutionality of this law, violations of the constitution by this law. And I'd like to ask you if you've considered that. How do you feel about these charges, Senator? I'll remind you that it's said, among other things. the infringement of Article. 20, Art. 21, Art. 23 and Article 23 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of Mr. Senator, of course, you don't need to be reminded of these rules, but for the general public, I will remind you. Well, like art. 20 constitutions, saying that there is a social market economy in Poland. And it is based, first, on freedom of business. Is this a violation of the principle of economic freedom? Secondly, it's based on private property. Well, if you want to dismantle business, property of farmers, producers, breeders, entrepreneurs in 30 days in one case, in the year in the other case, where there is no possibility of even paying off loans, loans, etc., then isn't this a private property violation? And thirdly, And that's what I think is very important. The market economy is based on the solidarity, dialogue and cooperation of the social partners. This is the basis of the economic system of the Republic of Poland. I would like to ask whether, according to the rapporteur, the public consultation was carried out properly or whether, in any way, the public opinion was taken into account, the opinion of the addressees of this law, by writing these provisions. I'll remind you, Art. 21 says that the Commonwealth protects property and the right to inherit. And here's the violation of this article. Come on. Art. 23: The basis of the country's agricultural system is the family farm. Most of these companies are businesses, family farms, small, Polish companies based on family not only in terms of ownership but also work. Are we dealing with a risk of breach of Article? 23 Constitution of the Republic of Poland? And it's, in my opinion, equally important, art. 24, in which the constitution speaks and guarantees that the work is under the protection of the Republic of Poland. We are still talking about producers, farmers, farmers, but these companies and these farms employ workers, and these workers have a family to support, these workers have loans, they have their purchases taken into account. If you want to introduce such rules from day to day, so to speak, you agree to work, I pay, and so also the future of these workers and their families. Did you talk about it? How does the senator, the rapporteur, feel about this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u31	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u32	Well, the Legislative Bureau indicated that in the opinion. The senator quotes these articles here, and some of them are mentioned, among others. through the Legislative Bureau. Discussion of amendments, possible amendments that I took over in committee... I think there's a dozen fixes. There were 23 comments, but I personally tabled 16 amendments to introduce them at the committee meeting. And they relate to some of the allegations concerning what should be considered to be constitutional or non-constitutional. But let us remember the presumption of constitutionality, I do not want to decide what is constitutional and what is unconstitutional. It is better to ask the Legislative Commission, which is more specifically prepared in terms of constitutionality. I think Senator Borowski would like to agree to this and give you an answer. We as committee did not particularly deal with constitutionality, but we understand the principles of constitutionality, which is why the committee proposed to give a long vacathio legis, even 10 years old, to walk away from it calmly. E.g. The Germans applied a 6-year period, if I remember correctly. The law of the European Union often says that if you move away from some activity or part of it, changing the conditions, it gives you long transition periods. And this has been repeatedly applied in agricultural law, I can give many examples, e.g. Chicken cages. There were supposed to be other dimensions, so it was given a period to prepare for transition to larger cages, and this change was applied with a transition period. So first, you give time to prepare for awareness and to make the costs involved as much as possible compensated. In Poland, compensation from the European Union could be used for this transition within the framework of the RDP, i.e. the Rural Development Programme. This mechanism shows that you can do this, only you have to do it gradually, giving you the opportunity to change production or change it. I'm like, "Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, By asking about the records... Do we, as animal owners, suddenly display boxes with dimensions that aren't... At the committee meeting, the question was whether there were so-called dimensions. Dog boxing in shelters. It turns out that the regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, which is from this point of view, has not yet defined these dimensions. The same for business dogs does not have defined dimensions as defined here. And if we leave nine, 12, 15 m2, then all of a sudden they're gonna have to pay huge costs. Such booths cost 2, 3 thousand s depending on the size. Such a woman from her retirement cannot secure such a cage or such a box. There's an overly strict approach here. Why does she suddenly have to bear such costs? Or he needs to put the dog down. But if the doctor says he doesn't, he'll have to return it to the shelter and that poor grandmother's pension will have to be kept by that animal. These are the problems that should be solved. That is why the Committee on Agriculture has proposed longer deadlines for spreading this over time. Some things are also being introduced in the European Union, but it gives time to adapt. As for constitutionality, I recommend here excellent specialists from the Legislative Commission... Our committee was dealing with agricultural problems. But, as I say, we also had amendments that are legislative. As I understand it, they have also been partially adopted by the Legislative Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u33	Thank you, Senator. Senator Zdzisław Pupa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u34	I have a question for the Senator of the agricultural committee, Mr Jack Bogucki, not the chairman of the committee. The rapporteur, Senator Bogucki, used words such as actual losses and funds to finance these losses. I would like to ask how the Senator rapporteur of the minority proposal sees the coverage of these real losses by securing financial resources, I understand, from the state budget. It is about assessing the loss of feed demand, which will undoubtedly decrease if this law enters into force. What will happen to the disposal of post-mortem waste? Who will bear the costs of disposing of this waste? So far, such waste has been fed, fur animals, rodents have fed on this waste. And another question about stopping breeding. What are the costs estimated here? How do you see it? You've been reporting these conclusions, so I suspect you have, as a former minister as well, an opinion, an estimate of the amount of these funds. If these funds are secured in a revised budget... the work on amending the budget is ongoing and will probably be sent to the Senate in the near future. I would like to ask, from which budget department will the funds go to cover these losses. I suspect they won't be small... I am also speaking in the context of events we have had in previous years, i.e. drought events. These drought events were pretty serious and we had approx. 2 billion PLN in one year and in the second year to cover drought losses. But this was done in a chronic manner and farmers... So that it is justified to fear that there may be problems with payments if the law enters into force to cover the actual losses that individual holdings will suffer. This is yet to be imposed on the likely rise in food prices, the reduction in prices for agricultural products. How is all this calculated? If you could bring that up, I'd appreciate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u35	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u36	These amendments, Mr. Senator, should be read together. If all were accepted, the problem with the loss of poultry production would cease to exist because one of the previous amendments proposes that no changes be made in this case. Thus, losses would undoubtedly involve the cessation of livestock farming and rearing. Here estimates are not actually made at the moment. It is the transfer of powers to the Council of Ministers to determine, by regulation, the detailed conditions for granting compensation, but also the extension of the vacathio legis, by 2022. Therefore, it is only in the budget for 2022 that adequate resources should be available. As far as other animals are concerned, this would actually include compensation for the beef industry. Here compensation would be for two groups For farmers who have carried out such breeding and in connection with the introduction of such legislation, or who have to give up such breeding or have to restrict such breeding. The payment could affect the vast majority of farmers who have so far grown animals for meat. Of course, the condition that some analysts say would have to be met here is that there would have been a fall in demand and a fall in buying prices for farmers. As far as the meat processing industry is concerned, mostly slaughterhouses... In Poland there are some such slaughterhouses which slaughter exclusively for religious unions, according to these rules. Part of the slaughterhouse has lines for both slaughter. I think there will be at least a dozen, even to dozens of entities eligible for aid. In view of the vacathio legis, these compensations would also be paid after 1 January 2022. We're talking about the budget of 2022. Estimates are very difficult here, but the total cost of payments must be calculated in billions, taking into account the entire industry. These are my analyses, I haven't seen enough detailed analysis to be able to relate to them. These are only fragmentary data relating to the expected effects. Aid schemes are possible, but they would require notification to the European Commission. There is an appropriate provision for such a scheme to be approved by the European Commission in the event of a reduction or cessation of production. As far as other side effects are concerned, the rules do not provide for them, so I cannot refer to what the impact would be, what would be the possible costs. What Mr. Senator mentioned, which is issues related to disposal, issues related to the production of feed... I think these two types of compensation are heading in this direction. I mean, I don't think so, I guess. As far as fur animals are concerned, this is where the cases aim to compensate for the complete cessation of production, and as far as the second part is concerned, i.e. beef production, payments should actually compensate for the market effects of the change, not the effects on production volume, export volume. On the one hand, farmers should be compensated for any losses which would result from lower prices and on the other hand entrepreneurs who have to adjust the slaughter lines and make changes in this respect should be compensated for losses.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u37	Senator Pupa wants to ask you another question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u38	I would just ask you a question because I didn't get the answer to the basic question. The Senator rapporteur said that they should compensate. I understand that these are intentional amendments. These are not so-called amendments. the real guarantees, which you also mentioned, only the intentional amendments, which should compensate for this. But the question is, when is this to be compensated according to your knowledge? Is this supposed to be compensated for a year, for two years, for five years, for 10 years, or for life? Farmers also want to know what these compensations are supposed to look like. Well, farmers expect me to tell them how these compensations are going to look specifically, how much they'll be paid, who they'll be paying. Are these really guaranteed compensations, or are they just intentional amendments? Because according to what you've presented, it's just an intentional record: it would be good if such compensation were. Well, there will be a regulation, but today we do not know what this regulation will look like, what these compensations will be and what their effects will be. You could say that those compensations that would possibly be... Well, obviously we can't talk about compensation here right now, because we haven't approved it. We do not know anything, because the rapporteur has not put forward properly what these compensations would look like, how large they would be. We do not know to what extent all of this, one can say, would apply to farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u39	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u40	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! A record which states that the Council of Ministers shall, by means of a regulation, determine the body or entity competent to grant the compensation referred to in paragraph. 1 and the detailed conditions and modalities for granting this compensation, taking into account the actual losses incurred for the cessation of farming... In one case it is referred to breeding and, in the other case, to restriction or cessation of activity. [[But how will it be calculated?]] This must be understood in such a way that it will be full compensation for the actual losses incurred by the various entities. This provision is not limited in time, so until the High House amends it, such compensation should be paid. Well, it's not a time-limit. And when it comes to the amount of payouts, it's about actual losses. As I said, in the case of processing plants, actual losses are those that will be incurred at the moment, among others. due to the change in the slaughter lines. As far as farmers are concerned, we are talking about actual losses due to the reduction or cessation of this activity. It will be compensated as long as such losses exist. At the moment, it is difficult to determine what will be the decline in the profitability of the holding which has so far carried on such activities after 1 January 2022, but here we are talking about actual losses. I understand that the Council of Ministers will be obliged by this provision to cover these losses until the Sejm and the Senate change this record.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u41	Mr. Senator, I have a question about compensation. As far as fur animals are concerned, these compensations can be quite precise, because you know how many mothers there are. They're registered, because for mothers, I mean foxes or minks, taxes are paid. It's registered, so you can define it all. As far as religious slaughter is concerned, animals that go to slaughter are not registered, so we do not know how many there are. Well, maybe the government knows that. Or do you know how to calculate these losses? But let's get back to the fur animals. Tell me if it's in addition to compensation for the basic herd. Let's say it's going to be some kind of sum. There will also be compensation for the equipment. Well, these farms also invest in equipment. It's about cages, but it's also about other equipment that makes karma, feeds, etc. That's pretty expensive stuff. Nobody puts a shovel on that karma right now. Will this be covered by compensation? Well, I understand that blank compensation doesn't really talk about anything. If she's gonna be... I mean, the regulation should set out the details, but the general principles should be in the law. So that's what compensation is for. Now, going back to religious slaughter, I'd like to ask, is there any way to count the number of cattle that goes to this religious slaughter? That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u42	Mr. Marshal, I am not a lawyer, but from the information I have, it appears that the concept of loss is defined in the Civil Code quite precisely and that definition has been adopted for the purposes of this law. Since there is no special regulation here in this law, this should also apply to this concept, which is adopted in determining the actual losses incurred, etc. So, to put it this way, there is a loss of everything that an entrepreneur or farmer will be able to prove as a loss incurred for the cessation or reduction of farming. So it seems that this is quite a precise term. We are not talking about future incomes, what a farmer would plan in the future, it is about real losses incurred when a ban enters into force. And here it will be up to the entrepreneur to show these losses. The second question was... [[How to estimate losses in connection with this prohibition.]] As I said, it will belong to individual entities. [[To the subjects who turn...]] Those who ask for compensation for their loss. [[This compensation for losses, I think, is supposed to be a one-time compensation, right? I'm asking because you answered so much that it's not known that maybe for many years...]] If it's a one-off loss, yes. However, as far as animals are concerned, and Mr Marshal asked that question, here we predict that if the profitability of the farms were to decrease, this decrease would be compensated as a real loss suffered by these farms. As far as which animals were ultimately destined for ritual slaughter and which were not, farmers do not have such information. Of course, slaughterhouses could probably recreate it, because animals are registered from the moment they leave the farm until the meat goes to the store. So it would be possible, but that's not the point. If a farmer, each farmer, is not able to carry out such farming for that purpose, he shall have the right to compensation if he is to bear the loss for that purpose. So it's independent of what kind of slaughter his animal got into, it doesn't have any effect. If the farmer suffers a loss under this restriction, he should be compensated.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u43	Thank you. Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u44	Thank you very much. My question is a question for Senator Chróścikowski. First of all, I'd like to ask you one thing about a certain temporal correlation. Well, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced many changes to this law yesterday, some in the form of amendments to be tabled in the Senate, others in the form of a separate act. These are interesting amendments aimed, in my opinion, at the right direction. Many of them are such, which also PSL And as soon as these amendments have been tabled, it soon turns out that the agricultural committee rejects... proposes that the entire bill be rejected. In that case, do I understand correctly that, according to the opinion of the agricultural committee, what Prime Minister Morawiecki has proposed, you consider it insufficient and therefore recommend rejecting this law? And then there's the second line. After the bill was passed in the Sejm, several Members of Law and Justice were suspended and Minister Ardanowski lost his position. Well, it happened as a result of the reconstruction, but obviously in some connection also with the vote on this bill. These amendments, which you announced to Prime Minister Morawiecki, were heading in exactly the direction that the suspended Members proposed. Do you, therefore, believe that those parliamentarians whose Law and Justice have suspended are right, and those who have pushed for the adoption of this law without changes, among others. President Kaczyński, isn't that right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u45	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u46	In fact, the question is not for the rapporteur of the committee's work, because it is my role to present the committee's work and to report on what the comments were, what the actions were. I already mentioned why the senators voted against. Well, Senator Bober made a motion to reject the bill and, at the request of the PSL, such a vote could be said to have taken place. We paid attention, asked why the religious slaughter of cattle was no longer permitted. Why suffer losses and pay compensation? I brought it in yesterday, and today I'm asking the government to reconsider this amendment. Because we have already tabled amendments that are, and today they will also be reported to preserve the slaughter of ritual, religious, as we say, in full. And that's one of the reasons why we doubt it. And there are many other problems that are not solved in this bill and which should be solved. It's not like it's a closed catalogue of things that we thought had to be worked out. If we'd accepted I'm gonna say it, 'cause that's what my friends said. This law in this version and they said that the government's amendments are great, that would mean that we agreed to it. And we don't agree to that yet, and we demand further changes. As I said, let us find an agreement because that was the discussion yesterday, we can find a further compromise in plenary today. The minimum, as I said, is at least a few things that can still be changed in this bill. I think that then the majority of the House, together, over the divisions, will improve this law and it will be a good law. But you still need a lot of will and change. We at the meeting today can make amendments that are not yet introduced, which will be tabled and which will give an opportunity. And as for the party review... I don't want to judge the Platform or the PSL or any other party. These are the internal affairs of every organization. That's not what I'm gonna talk about.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u47	Thank you. Senator Jan Hamerski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u48	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Chairman, I am walking as if a trace of Senator Libicki's thoughts I know that ritual slaughter is what arouses the greatest controversy and I would like to clarify certain matters. Corrections tabled by the government... I don't know whether the committee was debating them or not, but if so, what was the committee's position, if for example. on Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 11, which is the introduction to the catalogue of animal shelters for natural 'Cause one day... it's about those people who often run these shelters today who run them according to the rules, the veterinary services have control over them. Would it simply be accepted by the Committee on Agriculture to be extended to include natural persons with the possibility of carrying out activities in the protection of animals? [[Well... may I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u49	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this discussion has revealed various amendments proposed by various organizations, so-called. association of these private owners, I will call them so everyday, because I do not have these amendments before me ..and organisations have tabled amendments so that they can function. She was at a committee meeting with a lady who had a shelter in New Targ, and she offered different solutions. So these representatives proposed various amendments, they were sent to the Legislative Bureau to... But since the government has accepted the amendment proposal to leave these existing shelters to register... They have six months to register. In the previous recipe, there was a record that only six months would be able to function... They've been calling for consent, because some people have far more consent than... I mean, they have permission for a specific deadline, so it's about making it to a specific deadline, not before. This amendment, which was tabled by your Senator Pęk, will make these organisations register, cooperate with local governments, will be specific checks. And this is some solution that goes against the demands of these organizations. I think it should satisfy them. [[Mr. Chairman...]] And if it's real, it's a question of debate... [[...I know this amendment, I read it. I'm talking about the committee's position on this.]] But I cannot say what the committee's position is on this issue because a minority of committees approved this amendment, and most of them, you know perfectly, were... [[For rejecting.]] ...for rejecting it. Therefore, I cannot present the position of the committee... Most of them were against it. Well, understand, it hasn't been discussed... [[Thank you. I meant the debate that took place on the amendments, since they were so tabled. The minority rapporteur's report showed that such a discussion was on the committee. Thank you. And I have another question for the president.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u51	Mr. Senator, but... [[But it's part of that one question.]] Well, go right ahead. If you have any more questions, next time...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u52	It's about art. 7, Mr President, paragraph. 3 and 3a, which allow individuals to receive animals, so to speak, physical. Was there an amendment tabled on this issue or not? If not, I would have tabled an amendment like this to remove these two provisions from this law. To be honest, paraphrasing the words "animal welfare" may sound a little funny. It is about the well-being of those who will try to physically and individually receive such animals. Was there such an amendment tabled?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u53	We're talking about picking up... We withdraw from this record, which was reported by us, also by Senator Łyczak. This is back to the previous record. I've already said that the records were becoming more radicalized, radicalized, well, for the sake of animals, but right now... what we're talking about is the solution that the government has reported in these amendments that regulate this issue. I am in favour of giving veterinary funding so that it decides on the welfare of animals. After all, there are provisions in force for farmers to have this welfare of animals, and this is regulated. We in Poland have introduced improvements in livestock welfare, higher requirements. It is it mocked by some cow + A larger area is required for the animal, a runway for the animal is required. So that we improve well-being, we pay the farmer more direct payments for improving well-being. We show that well-being can be improved, and we encourage compensation for this super-standard improvement of well-being. This farmer bears higher costs because he has fewer animals on a specific area Buildings, cubature, etc. So he needs to be compensated. It's a form. to meet, how to further improve the welfare of livestock. [[Good. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u54	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have two questions, one addressed to Senator Bogucki... Can I ask them now, or... [[Ask him right away. We'll know how to separate them.]] Good. So, a question for Senator Bogucki. Namely, from what you said, and what Mr Chróścikowski said, it appears that farmers may have been granted the Netherlands with these compensations. Because it is not known from what means, which institution, it is not known if there will be consent in the European Union... In two respects, first of all, whether the Union will grant any resources for this and, secondly, whether the Union will allow budgetary resources to be mobilised for this purpose, which may be considered illegal public aid. So, actually, as long as we don't know the contents of this regulation, And in my opinion, it should be written down legally, not in the regulation, it is too serious for it to be a regulation. Well, we can actually say that farmers really don't know anything right now. And it may turn out that the government will say, well, we wanted to, but you see, this Union didn't agree and we can't pay you. Can we rule out this scenario, or can't we? And second question, Senator Borowski. Namely here, Senator Szejnfeld asked about constitutional doubts. And I would like to ask whether during the work of the Legislative Commission comments were submitted by one of the experts or a team of experts on the constitutionality of the ban on the export of meat from religious slaughter, both in the context of the Polish Constitution and EU legislation. Did any of the experts or team of experts pay attention to this? What was the argument? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u56	Thank you. There you go, sir. Maybe you're the first senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u57	Mr Marshal, Mr Senator, this year of vacathio legis is the period during which the said regulation should be created and notified should be notified to the European Commission. And the aid scheme should be approved. I would disagree with the fact that this type of record should appear in the bill, because the program during approval, as my experience shows, often requires adjustments, changes, even in particular records, words used, or additional explanations. However, this should be done at the level of the Council of Ministers regulation rather than at the statutory level. Of course, you could try to write these rules in more detail. But it seems that these records, which are, are precise enough to allow the programme, on the one hand, to cover all actual losses, and on the other hand, The government did not have the opportunity to limit this. So here... And that's really what this is about. Of course, there is always the danger that agreements with the European Commission can be difficult. There is an appropriate provision which allows for such aid, such guidelines for aid granted in agriculture, it is written why such aid may be granted. Thus, there is a legal basis in EU law. Yeah, but the details need to be worked out. In general, the process of developing such decisions is a multi-month process.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u58	Senator Jan Maria Jackowski is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u59	Well, Mr. Senator, what I'm saying is that if a farmer... let's assume that this regulation will arise and the farmer won't agree with the valuation of his losses, he'll think they're much higher. You know, with the valuations. it is as it was in the times of the Polish People's Republic, e.g. The woman burned down the apartment, there were sweaters and sweaters in it, the inspector from the PZU came in and valued the loss at 5%. the value of such a sweater, although it was unusable, because the whole width was simply burned out. So these valuations can be done differently and there may be a discrepancy here. And if all this is not recorded by law, how will the farmer be able to prosecute the courts later, in what proceedings, in what manner? This weakens the position of the farmer vis-à-vis the Polish country, which will eventually give him unknown what, who knows when, how and with what money. Isn't it better... I absolutely disagree with your thesis here. As a general rule, this could be described in the Act, not providing calculations, but specifying the conversion factors on the basis of which the farmer will be able to claim compensation or compensation once the actual losses have been documented. What we're going to call it, that's what we're going to call it. Thank you. Let me remind you that there was another question for Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u60	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u61	Well, that's more of a statement than a question. Experience so far shows that this is quite precisely defined in the regulations. In fact, EU law does not give much room for manoeuvre here. Income of the holding from an earlier period, income from the period for which compensation is paid... This difference can be paid in the form of compensation, it can be specified here. Farmers have documents, they have invoices, they collect them, they store them. These issues are, it seems, quite precisely defined, but, of course, the senator has the right to his opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u62	Mr. Senator, I have another question. Will the farmer be able to follow the judicial path if he does not agree? Will this be in the form of a decision that can then be contested?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u63	It's in the form of an administrative decision. [[That's what I'm...]] The administrative path is always available.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u64	Yeah, that's clear. Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u65	Senator Jackowski asked for the opinion of constitutionalists in connection with the ban on exports of ritual slaughter products. Yes, they had constitutional reservations, but this also involved the issue of vacathio legis, i.e. the period of expiry of that production, of that slaughter. Our constitution allows for the restriction of certain freedoms at all, but it must be done by law and it must be important to consider it as an article. 31. As far as business is concerned, the Constitution states that restricting the freedom of economic activity, and that we can talk about it here to a certain extent, is permitted only by law and only because of the important public interest. Well? There's a bill and there's an important public interest. Of course, everyone interprets it in their own way, but I think it can be drawn to an important public interest. Other provisions show that this must be done in a way that does not put businesses at risk, so both the period of vacathio legis and the corresponding compensation system should be taken into account. The Constitutionalists pointed out that neither one condition nor the other was fulfilled, and concluded that in this sense, of course, this is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u66	Thank you very much. Senator Antoni the Man asks a question remotely. That will be a question for Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u67	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[But Senator Chróścikowski isn't in the O.R.]] No, maybe I'll ask Mr. Jack Bogucki first about the last discussion with Senator Jackowski. [[Good.]] I really believe that... I would support Mr Jack Bogucki and his position in this discussion, such that strict provisions should be included in the regulation, and the guidelines for the regulation, also strict ones, should be in the law, for example. there should be a full catalogue of compensations, of those you spoke of, including those whose payment will last longer, will not be one-off and not, as is usually written down, such as that, and the full scope of such compensations is not exchanged. The guidelines must be well written down in the bill and we would like it to be that way. Is Mr Chróścikowski in the room yet? [[You are Senator Chróścikowski, so ask him a question as well.]] Well, I am asking questions to Mr Chróścikowski as rapporteur. The rapporteur mentioned only certain aspects, which were most important during the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, in particular the vacathio legis. Yes, it actually looked like that, they said that the vacathio legis should be longer, and the senators emphasized that, even in the case of this period, when it comes to compensation for cattle. But one more aspect was important, i.e. ritual slaughter. It's not Senator Bober's fault. And here I would ask you to change the name of Senator Bober: not Beaver, but Bober, that's how it changes. I am from Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship, we are from the same voivodship and... It hurts me when the senators change that name like that. So, rapporteur, in the first vote there were probably three votes against this proposal, and then, when the government was relentless about ritual slaughter, that is, releasing only this ban on poultry, in the second vote on Mr Bober's proposal only two abstentions, because it was not acceptable for the coalition senators. Don't you think that the rejection of this bill... I do not know whether you will report an amendment concerning the slaughter of ritual animals, it was widely discussed at the agricultural committee meeting, and I would not like to present these substantive arguments here, whether you will agree to reject this law, because today you did not talk about it. Is this for the government's instigation... Was there any pressure, any bending or breaking backs in the ruling coalition, and that's why you've already pulled out of it and didn't stress that this is a very important element? Because it was the issue of ritual slaughter that decided that the committee's position on agriculture was even more radical. Here we should remind you that the majority of the committees are members of the coalition, and there are only three Members outside the coalition in the 10-member membership of this committee. And one more thing. The government would draw up such a bill or bill... I think that a draft law could be drawn up properly and socially well consulted, a separate project on pets, a separate one on fur animals, could be prepared, because it does not arouse such great emotions, and ritual slaughter is a very controversial issue. And one more brief question for the rapporteur. How many countries of the European Union are banned from ritual slaughter? And why should we be the second country to introduce this ban? Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u68	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask Senator Chróścikowski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u69	In my report, I certainly wasn't able to say everything because there was one committee meeting, but it took three days and if we wanted to discuss everything, I would need five hours to talk and talk about it one step at a time. I certainly didn't tell you everything, but I have partially answered your question about Senator Bebra's request... [[Voice from the room: Bober.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm sorry, I want to make amends, which is why I said that... Well, I'm sorry if the senator's friend was offended. Senator Bober has indeed submitted these requests. As for the first vote you spoke about, it was indeed debatable. I then questioned whether Senator Bober's request, which was clearly heading towards 2 conclusions, was justified. One conclusion was that we were closing the discussion, and the other was a motion to reject the bill. And that's where the mistake occurred. And we, voting to stop the discussion... Because the three of us at the time thought it was about stopping the discussion, and we didn't agree to stop the discussion. And that second motion would be voted out later. Therefore, in the first vote there were 3 votes against, because we did not agree to stop the discussion and move immediately to the vote on the rejection of the law. That is why the Legislative Bureau stated that this is an irregular proposal, and we have moved on to further discussion. And that's how it was picked up. That's the difference in the vote. And senators' decisions are senators' decisions and they vote as they vote. And I'm not here to determine who voted or why. And those other things that were... Indeed, many things could be said in a single bill or in two or in three laws. Many senators and Members said that it would be best to break it down, because there are also a lot of good things in this bill that could be separated. But I always say it's enough teaspoon, kiddo, to spoil a whole barrel of honey. And so it happened that a few things that can be corrected are ruining this bill. Let's not add a spoon to the bad thing that's gonna ruin this bill. Then it'll be okay. That's why going against the government... There is a expectation of our committee, as we said yesterday, for further discussions, for further amendments. We signaled yesterday that, when we were talking about some kind of agreement, about some consensus, we should work out a good solution together. Our appeal last night ended with this. And today we expect to take another step in the form of amendments adopted together. And as for club decisions, I'm sorry, I'm not gonna say anything.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to Marshal Borowski as rapporteur for the committee. It's about art. 9 of the Mother's Law, that's the first in Chapter 2 of the Pets. So this article is about pets. In the revision of the amendment to this Article. 9 shall start in Article. 1 in point 4, and the amendments introduced at the committee meeting, from which you submitted a report, begin in Amendment 6. So far it's been like this. From the beginning, practically, since the adoption of the mother's law in 1997. - that in accordance with Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 he who keeps the pet was obliged to provide this animal with a living room with access to daylight. This is in the original text, so we have e.g. in the reference material, with access to daylight, paragraph. Article 1 9. In the original version of the novel which came from the Sejm, this paragraph was not touched at all, so I would say, but among the amendments of the Legislative Commission is the amendment concerning the paragraph. 1. It means that you simply remove the record with access to daylight. The question is, does it make it worse, or does it improve well-being? Because if we applied this amendment, we might as well keep pets in the basements, in the landlords. It's usually warm, but there's no access to daylight. Is that what this was about? Second question It is similar because it is also related to Article. 9 is a little more complicated. In this novel of mouth. 2 would receive In fact, he received, because it is already the law...the following wording: to take up keeping pets in prison for more than 12 hours within 24 hours. But the committee's amendments say: "Do not keep pets trapped in a permanent way." Of course, it hasn't been defined what a constant is. That means, theoretically, we're improving the animal situation, but in practice... I am not sure that the owner of the animal will say: and, it is bound only for a moment, in a temporary manner, and not in a permanent manner. Yeah, he's gonna spin it. If the time is set, it's clear what's going on. If there is no time limit, problems begin. These problems are even more complicated, given that we are changing... we are still talking about amendments, amendments tabled in committee. Let's take a mouth. 5 and input into the calculation. So far it has been formulated in such a way that... This is the added paragraph: keeping the animals in the pen is allowed, provided that the animal has adequate surface area. It is the surface of the pen determined according to the size of the animal. This is the case at the moment: the holding of the animal in the pen is permitted provided that the animals are allowed to move beyond the pen at least once a day. Does that mean we're forcing animal walks here? I'm talking about the villages, the animals that are kept on farms. I'm not talking about our pets sleeping in beds. And one last thing to do with it. During work, this amendment... It is about amendment 14 or, in fact, proposal 14 in this table. The wording that temporary holding of a pet is permitted is excluded from the vote There was a word here, but it was protested while walking with this animal. Well, it wasn't part of the committee's work, that is, in the compilation of amendments. The question is why? After all, that would be in line with the idea, the spirit of this bill. And these are the specific questions. A It's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to, it's going How's one to the other?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u73	Well, to answer the questions that Senator Czerwiński has asked me now, this is a mission impossible. These are such detailed questions that I would have to appeal to my mother's bill. I can say something about some things, but not all of them. As for the fact that it is forbidden to keep animals trapped, let's start by saying that Senator Czerwinski is a member of the same committee. I don't know At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, these matters could have been thoroughly clarified, so I do not know why they still raise doubts. Well, as for this statement that it is forbidden to keep pet animals trapped in a permanent manner, I read it as it is written: in a permanent way. It doesn't bother you, it's a recipe. even more general. He does not interfere with this recipe, which is really to be abolished, and which says it is possible for a maximum of 12 hours. If we say it could be a maximum of 12 hours, then it has to be a break, and if there's a break, it's not a permanent way anymore. I don't think this recipe is particularly dangerous. As regards points 3 and 4, these were Senator Kwiatkowski's conclusions, and Senator Kwiatkowski withdrew these points. It is about this provision, which says that temporary keeping of a pet trapped is only allowed while walking with this animal, and the one that prohibits the use of earrings on pet animals. By the way, the barbecue is included in the provisions of this law, which came to us, and the senator withdrew this wording concerning this temporary stay only during walking with the animal. So, as long as my memory doesn't confuse me, it's just not gonna be in the compilation of the amendments that will be prepared. That was two lines. Now it's a question of access to the light. We have adopted a provision which says: "Whoever keeps a pet has the duty to provide him with a room to protect them from cold, heat and precipitation, allowing him to change his body position freely, to feed properly and to have permanent access to water." No, there's no... But it's just part of a bigger recipe. I'd have to get to the bill right now. In the article... yeah, it's an art. Point 1 (4). Point 4 is... That's where the mouth is added. Three, seven. This is where we operate... Excuse me, ladies and gentlemen, but this requires a little paperwork on my part... Oh, point 4 (a) a. Yes, in point 4 in point (a). And we were talking about those 12 hours. Good. And now the mouth. 2 is replaced by the following: 1 and 2 receive... And the mouth is added. 1. It seems... I'm sorry, I even think it's... No, okay, okay. That's the... And then you add your mouth. Three and seven that we don't change here. We don't change them... Three and four fall out. There's not much change there after that. Indeed, at first glance, Mr. Senator, at first glance, this access to the light may have fallen out. I can't do 100% right now. to say it didn't happen. We'll check it out with the Legal Office, because of course access to the light is a fundamental matter. Yeah, there's no doubt about that. So that's all I can say right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u74	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal... Both gentlemen of the Marshals. Art. 9 we can compare very simply There's comparative material in the materials we've been provided with. Art. 9 in the paragraph. To date, 1 is: "Who keeps a pet is obliged to provide it with a room to protect them from cold, heat and precipitation, with access to daylight..." And that is the wording since the beginning of the Act as soon as it was passed in 1997. In the text of the law which was passed to us from the Sejm, art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 is not moved, it is not changed. And in the amendments that we adopted yesterday, we cut out access to daylight. I don't know... I'm sure that's not the point. This is why I pay attention to this because it would be a fundamental deterioration in the welfare of animals, to which the average man would not agree. But, Mr. Marshal Borowski, that is also a lesson. 'Cause you've had a lot of trouble with the Sejm here, about its legislative fitness, and notice what happened here. So just for the future: please don't continue to complain about the Sejm, because in a moment Czerwinski will just remind you how it feels to work quickly in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u75	Thank you very much, Senator, although very... [[I'm sorry, but...]] Please, because, as I understand it, this was a question for Mr. Marshal Borowski... [[Yes...]] ...because this is not the time for discussion. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u76	I'll answer the question. This amendment was meant to extend the rule. This provision was: Who keeps a pet is obliged to provide it with a room to protect them from cold, heat, precipitation... And there was access to the light included. And where did that amendment come from? I understand that it wasn't my amendment that added words that allowed for a free change of body position, proper karma and constant access to water. Why... [[It was also, Mr. Marshal, only this access to the light was cut out. And that's shocking.]] So, Mr. Senator, there was a job on the committee... [[But we have Senator Czerwinski on the committee...]] That's right, we have Senator Czerwinski. And Senator Czerwiński didn't see it, which I regret, because, as a rule, we can count on Senator Czerwiński in this respect. And don't get mad about what it's like to work in the Seym, and what it looks like in the Senate. Unfortunately, in view of such a low level of legislation of this law, in a situation where we also work at a certain rate, because we have 30 days, as you know, and the entire bill to be amended, with the call of experts, waiting for expertise, etc., etc. Of course, such mistakes can happen. I'm glad you caught it. I'll check with the Legislative Bureau. And there's still time to make an amendment. But that in no way invalidates the Sejm's attitude to work. And to be honest, with your meticulousness, you should be the first senator to publicly protest at the meeting of your club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u77	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. May I ask that Mr President, Senator rapporteur Chróścikowski, be kind to answer two questions? [[Senator, you're sitting...]] But you can sit, Mr. Senator, you don't have to... [[I'm up.]] My first question. The whole world is struggling with the problems of animal homeless. Moreover, there is a solution that exists in many countries of the European Union, which is the chipping of animals. Why does the government not want to create a solution that the world has long ago adopted, and especially the European Union? And my second question, animal asylum. It will be very important for animals with so-called. confiscation and, for example, the prohibition of animals in circuses when they need to be transferred to a specific location. Has the government considered this issue and are the procedures prepared? This is a very important matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u80	If I may, Mr Senator, let me say this: indeed, these questions should be addressed to the government, because we at the committee's meeting actually only discussed this in general, and the detailed solutions that are proposed in this law... Any amendments that are being tabled are going in this direction. After all, the senators in the Legislative Commission have proposed chipping, as I recall, and this is why we are going in this direction. But in my committee meeting, there were organizations who pointed out very important issues from their point of view, said that in the current legal state the government would not be able to do it because there are no such things as this or any other thing... The organizations argued that it was difficult to do. Well, since we're imposing some time, but here's the question, because I haven't been analyzing what time is there, period... Because there's also a question of how long we've been doing this, and I haven't noticed it since it's been in force, whether it's a vacathio legis, whether we give a year or two years... Well, I didn't pay any attention to those amendments that were there. And that also takes time to prepare. The government must also create a central register. I can say one thing: we, as farmers, have almost every farm animal that we have here, cows, pigs or other... Well, maybe you can call it a chip, but it's called a chip. An earring. So this form is made and in most cases the farmer has to record every animal. And he's controlled. I once asked the director of one of the troops... I didn't ask the head office anymore, I just asked in my department if they'd be able to do that, too. Doggies type in. And he said: there will be no problem, and if you join farms, that dogs will still be entered, then you will do and implement the program, I don't see the problem of adding e.g. One more animal. But that's something to discuss. And here we'd have to ask the government to come up with a solution like that. Because the word "chipping" is okay, it's just a question of how it's going to be solved, how much time it takes, how much time it takes to create a central register, and how much money it needs to be secured. All these issues require an arrangement with the government. So that I would send a question directly to the government, because all I can talk about is what I can... But at the committee meeting there was a discussion on this subject, we talked to those organisations that are doing it voluntarily today. So that was the conversation. [[Thank you very much...]] [[Excuse me, I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal.]] [[You're welcome, Senator.]] [[I asked two questions.]] Yeah, of course. This second question is difficult for me to answer because we did not discuss such details at the committee meeting. As far as the records are concerned, there wasn't such a broader discussion here. Everyone thought that animals couldn't be abused, they couldn't be trained, so everyone thought that was the right thing to do. It's a technical issue as to how it's going to be passed on, but it's written down in the bill. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u81	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question. That will be a question for Senator Borowski. You're welcome, Senator... [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] As I understand it, Mr. Senator isn't here. I ask you to ask Senator Janusz Gromek's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u82	Good morning. Welcome. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I listen to today, I listen to yesterday, I listen to many weeks of discussion and I dare say one thing is given us a powerful bubble. The amendments that are made will absolutely not make these records very good. And that's the point. What about the loans, what about the banks? But I have a question for... Well, of course, I'm most worried about a man, a Polish farmer, a Polish entrepreneur and, of course, animals, of which are billions of dollars. I have a question for Senator Kwiatkowski. Just out of curiosity, what's the scale of these... [[I'm sorry, Senator, but you're not here for Senator Kwiatkowski.]] ...which serve the good of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u83	Thank you very much for this question, Senator, as you pointed out, asked out of curiosity. I assume all questions are asked out of curiosity about the essence of things. In view of the fact that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski is not here, I am asking you a question, just out of curiosity: would you like to address this question to someone else? [[Well, he'll come...]] It's just really hard to ask anything about someone who's not in the O.R. This is a rather difficult dialogue. [[Voice from the room: There is no answer.]] Thank you very much. In that case, I wanted to ask you a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. My question is whether it is possible, in accordance with the Polish and European legal system, to complete the decision of the legislator of any activity in any industry or to deprive him of the ability to run a legitimate business... [[Well, if anyone would like an answer, you're welcome.]] ...in some business without compensation? Does European and Polish law even provide for this possibility regardless of what industry we are talking about? If anyone is legally active at a given time and every day the State tells him that he must stop this activity, I repeat, is it possible from a Polish and European legal point of view to end this activity without compensation? I addressed my question to Marshal Borowski. [[Mr. Marshal didn't specify it at the beginning, so I wasn't listening exactly...]] I would therefore like to ask your marshal again whether it is possible, in the Polish and European legal system, to terminate any business activity, activity of the whole branch or to deprive them of the possibility of doing business without compensation. In short, or even if the law provides for a lack of compensation, people treated in this way will have the opportunity to resort to Polish and European legal procedures to enforce this compensation?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u84	First of all, such a rapid termination by administrative decision is equivalent to... well, it's not the same, but it's equivalent to expropriation effects, which, as you know, can only be made for adequate compensation, for adequate compensation. It's the same here. This is certainly not possible in Poland, and certainly not in the European Union either. We know such cases from Russia, there were expropriated very quickly and very large companies without any compensation, instantly. So, of course, such an entrepreneur will be able to complain to the judicial authorities of the EU.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome. However, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz appeared. You're welcome, Senator, to ask you a question. [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] I'm sorry, sir, but we're not hearing that question again, which may suggest that there are any technical problems or that your senator is still missing. In that case, I would like to inform you that there are no further questions for the Senators of the rapporteurs. The drafts of this law have been submitted by Members. Ms Katarzyna Maria Piekarska was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the draft law contained in the Seym printing. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Yes, please.]] You're welcome, Mrs. Member. You can do it both from the place and from the grandstand, that's your choice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u86	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, the Sejm worked in a huge hurry. Maybe if we worked with a little more reflection and a little longer, this bill wouldn't cause so much trouble and probably come out of the Sejm better, but I hope that this bill will return to the Sejm good and that it will be a really significant step forward when it comes to animal rights. Just like it came down here today, this bill is 23 years old. When 23 years ago we passed this law, I was then an applicant of the first Animal Protection Act, which replaced the 1928 regulation. We really didn't dream that one day we would take such a huge step forward as banning animal breeding on fur, banning animals on chains, banning animal performances in circuses or regulating animal issues that serve a man all his life in uniform services. I am also thinking of many, many other records that are included in this bill. So that I very much ask you to accept these amendments, so that you do not reject this law, because soon again we will not have such a chance to improve the fate of animals. I agree with the fact that in a situation where the industry is banned, this is what you asked the Marshal Kaminski to apply either compensation or a longer period of vacathio legis, as has been done in different countries. Or a long period of vacathio legis, when it comes to e.g. to ban animal breeding on fur, or large compensations, or both. Indeed, given that people live with it, and this is a fairly large industry, you need to introduce such a vacathio legis. Except, as I understand it, these amendments are in this bill. There is one more thing; there was also a lot of talk about it today. 7 Animal Protection Act. This is the article that allows an animal that is abused to be beaten, which is often on the verge of life and death, to be picked up by the oppressors. This is one of the most important provisions of the Animal Protection Act. He's been operating for 23 years. And it's not like the organization goes into the field, takes the dog under its armpits and goes out. It is always the decision of the governor, the mayor or the president to pick up the animal. That decision can be appealed against. In cases of urgency, an organisation the statutory objective of which is the protection of animals may enter the area and, in accordance with a certain procedure, receive the animal, but shall also immediately notify the Mayor, Mayor or President. I've been checking it out, ladies and gentlemen. For these 23 years, courts, because this is always the case of picking up an animal ends in a court of law, over 90%. cases led to convictions and courts as if they confirmed that the collection of the animal was justified. In most cases it is not about large, farm animals, these are exceptional cases, because there is really a lot of difficulty in picking up such an animal and taking out another place where until the court has settled 'Cause, as I stress, it's always a court decision here. This animal may be present. So that I agree with the amendment, which Mr. Marshal Borowski was talking about, namely, to restore a state that was simply earlier, because this provision has been functioning for 23 years. You can also think of a list of such organizations. But, as I say, this article is one of the most important articles in this bill. Thank you very much for the opportunity to speak. As I said, we support some of the amendments and hope that the bill will come out of the Senate much better than it did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Member. At present, senators may ask from a place lasting no more than a minute a query to the authorised representative of applicants related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, please... Oh, no, I'm sorry, Jacek Bury, I'm so sorry, because this is the third time I get... You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u88	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Member! Words have come out here that we have a chance to improve this bill because we won't get a chance like this for long. I feel like we're overreacting a little bit. And here's the question: why do you believe that we will not get the opportunity to ease the suffering of animals? I believe that the Sejm and the Senate do not have the possibility to proceed with this type of setup only once every 30 years, we can do it in the next months, and we can do it well, not do it on a cappaw, on a lunatic. The Seym didn't do what it was supposed to do, he didn't do his job, the Senate wasn't able to sort it out in 30 days. The question is, shouldn't the Sejm hit their chests and rework this bill or these laws. Question: "What makes you think it won't happen anytime soon?"
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u90	It's hard for me to be responsible for the entire Seym... Let me remind you that there were two draft laws, I present one of these projects. And here's what I'm going to say: this project of yours, very small... Because my project included regulation of the prohibition of animals in circus performances, regulation of animals that are used for special purposes, and regulation of the issue of these animals. "Dogs and Horses" That serve a man in uniform services. It was a request of the officers themselves, the keepers of animals, because this matter is regulated differently, in fact it is not regulated in a uniform way. This project was submitted, as I recall, on December 12 or 15 Ub. In fact, if it hadn't been for the sudden draft of Law and Justice, he probably would have been lying and lying still. There was a slight change that, in my opinion, doesn't arouse... Because even listening to the senators and senators, I felt that no one opposed the ban on animal performances in circuses or the uniformed regulation of animal issues that were used by uniformed services. We could've gotten this stage over with. So, that's what I'm going to say based on my experience, well, this project was lying down. And I'm afraid we won't have a chance soon to improve the fate of the animals. So once again, I ask you very warmly to simply improve this law. Because I think it can be improved. And one more thing. Here was a question from Senator Komarnicki, if I remember correctly, about animal shelter. I also spoke to the government on this matter. Because indeed, such asylum will be needed for these animals to be picked up, from confiscations, from illegal farms that are registered as circuses, because this is another pathology and I hope that this solution will lay down a dam and also those that are currently in circuses are transferred to this type of asylum. Indeed, there is a need for an extended period of vacathio legis, so that the government will simply make time to prepare the rules that apply to these asylums. In March, as far as I know, the Ministry of the Environment was quite involved in the work. The Pandemic stopped this work. But I hope that right now, given that... well, I'm still counting on it, and I hope that this bill will be passed. And I hope that these works will speed up. Because really asylums for animals from seizures, circuses, etc., will just be necessary. Otherwise, we're gonna have trouble handing over these animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u91	I ask you to ask Senator Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u92	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to commend you here that you know not only the animal problems but also the economic processes. Because you made it clear that it was either a longer vacathio legis or compensation. Because in fact, it looks like every business has a certain time. And if vacathio legis is very long whether long enough, such as the period, I do not know, planning an investment in obtaining a bank loan, then you may not give any compensation. And the shorter this period, the greater the compensation. Now I would like to ask you if, in the days of Coronavirus, when we are most likely threatened with a second lockdown due to the growing number of infections and the prediction that it will increase quite geometrically, Poland can afford compensation, high compensation, or should we simply apply a longer vacathio legis. What's your opinion here, your position? And have these economic problems even been discussed by the Sejm, do the Members of the Sejm understand the principle that either vacathio legis or compensation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u93	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u94	Mr Marshal, it seems to me that Mr Buda is the better addressee of this question here next to me. Because these regulations are in the project, as I said, the second, commonly known as the five... [[It was my role to inform Senator Husband that the recipient of this question...]] Good. Well, if I can, I'll get away with it. I'm just gonna say one thing. Because here we also talked about issues such as: mink. I do not know whether you know that less than PLN 11 million has been received by the state budget in 2019 when it comes to fur farms. That's worth knowing, too. But, as I say, I would prefer that you respond to a Member who...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u95	Good. There's gonna be time for this, for everything in life. I say that there are no more questions for the rapporteur. Mr Waldemar Buda has been authorised to represent the position of the applicants for the draft law contained in the Parliamentary Printing Act No 597. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Mr. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u96	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We all know what the Act is about. It is intended to increase the legal protection of animals. It provides for many animal regulations, from pets to farm animals, and these are solutions that are a kind of standard in Europe and in the world in terms of animal protection. The honourable Member is right here, saying that this is a huge step in this direction. And to be honest, when we hear about the government announcements of the introduction of the State Animal Protection Inspection, we can say that we will even be in the vanguard, we will have an organization that will detail, individually and only deal with this problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill contains many solutions that civilize life, the functioning of our puppies. However, it also concerns the functioning of animals on farms, and here it is necessary to balance the interests of animal owners, but also of all breeders, those who work very hard on a daily basis, such as animal production. That is why we proposed yesterday... Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki proposed and recommended changes which basically put this law in a completely different light. I mean, as far as the ban on ritual slaughter of cattle and poultry is concerned, we rule out this largest segment, which is two thirds of ritual slaughter. We leave this ban. only for beef, while we withdraw for poultry. A lot of controversy about this law has emerged on the canvas of many already known cases in which associations, organisations entered farms with the aim of protecting animals and the welfare of animals. However, there were also such interventions that were unjustified and ultimately raised great opposition from the public. Therefore, our proposal for an amendment is that any competence regarding the collection of animals should be communicated to the new government agenda, for the sake of clarity. That's all she's gonna do. Of course, social and non-governmental organisations will also be able to operate in this sector, without the slightest problems, but will only act on the principle of signalling the problems of inspections which will then respond. For them, this is also a good solution, because there have been situations where unjustified interventions have caused costs or created legal problems for these organisations. Thanks to this change, they will not be responsible for this. Any information that will flow to them will ultimately be verified by this inspection and it will already take action in the field, on the holding. It will be much easier for a farmer or a person who is suspected of being mistreated with an animal to accept a situation in which he will deal with a state body, independent, objective, unlike an organization. Well, certainly not everyone who could have entered a farm like this... Yeah, well, that's a lot to worry about, too. Of course, any changes require time to adapt to the new regulations and we see it, Ladies and gentlemen. Hence our proposal for an amendment, which says that the vacathio legis of this regulation concerning the ban on ritual slaughter extends until 1 January 2022. This is a really appropriate time to be able to prepare for new legal conditions in relation to this type of activity, such as farm work. We are also making some kind of concession, which means that well-functioning host entrepreneurs will still be able to carry out this activity after the conditions which are in the law and which are also set out in the proposed amendment have been met. We don't discriminate between entrepreneurs here. If someone in such a legal form wants to conduct this type of activity, please do so, but while maintaining the highest standards and keeping everything that is most important to us, namely animal welfare. It will be 6 months to obtain the right to continue carrying on such activities by entrepreneurs who have so far carried on such activities. They must demonstrate, for example, a 2-year experience in this area or employment of persons who are not convicted of animal harm crimes. So we're protecting this situation here, and certainly the hostels we've heard so much about, because television shows have shown us these shelters and the conditions in them were scandalous, such that there was a mass transfer of animals from one place to another in connection with these kinds of situations... We want to avoid such dramas, and that is why we will verify those entities that run these hostels. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, changes and some kind of limitation of activity must meet with some response from the State in terms of compensation. Therefore, we propose an amendment which quite specifically indicates that the actual losses incurred for the cessation or rearing of fur animals in order to obtain fur from them will be the subject of a regulation and will be the subject of individual decisions. We assume that it is probably the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture that will deal with individual applications of individual producers who have lost on this ban. As far as cattle exports are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced that after a year it will turn out that all these data that appear Although they all reserve, showing that they are perhaps incomplete, the estimates simply do not confirm themselves. Today we actually know how much beef is exported, which is obtained from ritual slaughter, but we have no information. In fact, none of the opinionaries, both at the meeting of the Legislative Commission and at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development and the Ministry of Finance, have data to show how much of this imported meat from ritual slaughter is required, precisely because of the way our recipients have obtained this meat in Europe. Because we assume that many contracts that are concluded today for the export of this meat, e.g. to Portugal... that they, as far as the customer and the recipient are concerned, do not require this meat to come from ritual slaughter, but because there is a plant, there is a slaughterhouse that produces in this way, has such a production line... that for each subsequent order it also obtains meat from ritual slaughter, because it has a line of obtaining, processing and killing animals. Therefore, we estimate that calmly at least half of meat exports, now coming from ritual slaughter, will be preserved precisely because of the fact that at In most cases, it's not a problem. The French or Spanish market has no requirements for ritual slaughter, but such meat is simply exported. Ladies and gentlemen, if we are talking about a compromise, this law is a compromise. We were talking about NGO, we were talking about reducing ritual slaughter, we were talking about animal welfare in cities, farms, homes. All of this is deeply humanitarian today as a kind of standard in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are outraged that this law had its shortcomings. Yeah, she was short-lived, of course. Only if we were working on it for another month in the Seym, she'd probably still have it. And such a view of others, such as senators or experts who spoke in the Senate, and a very valuable look, also gave signals to make amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, I attended a meeting of the Legislative Commission yesterday and there, among others. President, Senator Kwiatkowski made amendments, which he later withdrew as a result of the discussion that followed in committee, with experts, senators, also with us. What does that show? This shows that anyone can be wrong. It shows that everyone wants the bill to come out of the Senate and enter into force as a law as the best possible law. We're all trying here. Nobody's infallible. If we saw that we had made a mistake somewhere, we either proposed an amendment ourselves or recommended that we accept the amendment tabled by the other senators. So we are also very open to your amendments and to your discussion. We have spent several hours in committees, we have been working on this project and we are taking your points into account. We're taking your point because that's what we're here for. Thank you very much. I, ladies and gentlemen, also have as a model the vote that took place in the Seym. I must say to you that, among the parliamentarians of Law and Justice, a significant part was in favour of this law, not only supported it 18, it seems, Members of our Law and Justice Club. A much higher percentage of those supporting this law was among the representatives of the Civic Coalition, because 134 parliamentarians voted 133 and 124 were in favour of this law. So I'm very calm about supporting this bill. As we read it carefully, we will see that after all these amendments, including these countries, this is a very good piece of legislation that can be modelled in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u97	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. You're welcome to take... Oh, I'm sorry. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than one minute's duration to the authorised representative of the applicants related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u98	Mr. Ambassador, I have two brief questions. One concerns the previous version of the law and the other concerns the amendment proposed by the government. Question one: where did the idea of excluding entrepreneurs from shelters even come from? This is really weird for us. We've tabled the right amendments, but I'm very interested in where this idea came from, so that entrepreneurs who run shelters... As the honourable Member has pointed out, there are certainly those who commit some shortcomings, but it is not a good solution to condemn the municipalities so that they cannot enter into contracts with such entrepreneurs. That's the first question. And the second is: why was the poultry excluded from the ban and the cattle not? Why such differentiation of animals? Well, it's religious or ritual slaughter. This prohibition no longer applies to poultry This is what your amendment says. It still applies to other animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u100	Ladies and gentlemen, entrepreneurs are people who do business that work for profit. In such situations, there is always a temptation to generate income and profit at the expense of the tasks to be carried out. We are aware of this because we know such examples from many industries. Where income is maximized, where activity has to balance, with a slight or even a big plus, there are some savings, some kind of measures that could affect animal welfare. That's why we're proposing that organizations that go out of their way, i.e. they do not derive income from their activities, and any funds, even if they make any income, transfer to the institution for development. Nevertheless, we respect the fact that such objects are functioning today. There are also objects that function well, and therefore we want to keep them simply in the world. The second question concerned this distinction in terms of ritual slaughter of poultry and bovine animals. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the technique of ritual slaughter for poultry and cattle is quite different. And that's actually the answer. Cattle are much larger, they are placed in a cage and stunned by a shot from such a pneumatic metal gun. In the case of poultry, this is quite different because it is a matter of using gas or electric stunning. Well, it's in the scientific opinion... Senator, let me draw your attention to the opinion that was made here, under the order of the Legislative Commission, the opinion of the professor, who also shows this difference. When it comes to science and based on the research that took place at the slaughterhouse, it explains how the slaughter of poultry differs from slaughter of bovine animals, and why it is, it can be said, a little more humane than in the latter case.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. As an important event would take place at 12.00 in the Senate, we planned a break. So I'm declaring a recess now. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We will return to this point after the break, so I would very much ask that you be gracious to pay attention when this moment comes. [[Good.]] Thank you very much. Dismissed until 12:30. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 59 to 12 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u102	I'm reopening the session. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Animal Protection Act and some other laws. Would any of your senators like to ask Mr Waldemar Buda another question? Is Mr Buda in the room yet? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] We invite you to the room of Mr Waldemar Buda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I was saved before recess.]] I'd move on to the next stage, and then we'll get back to that. Minister Michał Dworczyk was authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Paweł Szrot, Deputy.]] In his replacement We know for what reasons You're the minister. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to state very briefly that the resolution of this law has received the support of the Government and has been consulted with the Government. What's more, the amendments that were already presented here yesterday at the meeting of the agricultural committee were tabled by Marshal Pęk, which were upheld as a minority request. They are the result of the recommendation of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers. The government declares that it will implement them. As regards the questions that have been raised here, the questions to the rapporteurs, which should actually be addressed to me as a representative of the government, I would like to say briefly that, as regards the compensation which has been raised several times here, I have been informed from the Ministry of Agriculture that a working group has been working there for a few days, which is preparing a draft regulation on how to calculate and how to provide compensation. Of course, this team cannot formally present the results of its work at a time when these provisions have not yet entered into force, but it does the necessary calculations and estimates. His work is primarily based on the idea that these compensations, firstly, be linked to real losses, secondly, to lost profits, and thirdly, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, also allow for a change in the production profile for the producers whose activities are subject to the Act under review today. I would like to stress that the adoption of a legal formula, in which the procedure and amount of compensation are regulated under the Regulation, is not new in the Polish legal system. Such solutions have already been adopted, for example. as regards the compensation for electricity. I don't think it's any kind of irregularity when it comes to notification procedures. That's the question, too. According to my knowledge, they are ongoing, they have been initiated and we hope that they will be completed without undue delay. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. You are Mr Buda. We therefore return to the questions of the Member. Minister, then I'll ask you too. The first would like to ask the applicant's representative Senator Adam Szejnfeld. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u105	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you two things. The first one's like this. I would like the Member, if he can, to reveal to us what drama, what tragedy is going on, I do not know, today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, but certainly in a very short time in Poland, an earthquake, or perhaps some war, because probably something absolutely extraordinary, inevitable and serious had to appear in you during your deliberations, that you decided to break all the rules, constitutional rules, laws, regulations and, above all, common sense, the principles of good legislation were undoubtedly broken here in the first day to make a bill that would deprive people of the basics of existence, and that also those who are breeders, and those who are producers, and those who are farmers, and those who are workers of these. Can you enlighten us? Can you give us information about what a tragedy, what a tragedy happened not to work normally, in a dozen or so weeks, six months, as normally happens, just for one day? That's the first question. Two. I'm talking about damages. There's no way to find out from this bill. Of course, you have given a few sentences to this subject in your speech, but you have barely resolved any doubts. Who, on what terms and to what extent will pay compensation and, most importantly, whether or not account is taken of what is the absolute foundation in the normal economy in every sector, in every sector, in every sector, and thus in the supply chain. Never is he who is at the end of this chain the only one who contributes to the creation of the final product. If this final entity were to be subject to restrictions, in this case even bans... Well, one of the bans is curiosable, the company's supposed to be closed in 30 days. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I only ask to be briefed, a minute to ask.]] Of course, this is followed by many other companies, laying down like dominoes, of course with effect for their employees. What is the compensation system supposed to look like, and for whom do you provide these compensations, apart from the producer or the final entity in the supply chain? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u106	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u107	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator, I wish you very much, I am rooting for you to succeed, someday, maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, maybe not the day after tomorrow, but I have managed to present a statement in the Senate that would be devoid of malice, distress... Work on it. She's so... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Member, I would very much like to ask you to answer questions.]] As to the question that was a smaller part of your speech, I will say yes. The damages will be comprehensive, i.e. will compensate for real, real losses. The delegation in this area is very broad for the Council of Ministers. In our concept, which is developed in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development There is a team in this area. The assumptions are that it will be the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. As the largest paying agency in Europe, it seems to have the greatest competence in this area, it pays various aid, ranging from drought to various subsidies to various productions, but also to some agricultural activities. She will take into account losses in enterprises or agricultural holdings due to the reduction of ritual slaughter and, I understand, the limitation of some export direction in this area, because only in this respect are we limiting this ritual slaughter. I am therefore convinced that these numbers I'm gonna say it again. They won't confirm because the data on slaughter... I just read somewhere that data on the export of meat from ritual slaughter is unknown. They are known, these data are known, we all know them, but we do not know what part of this export of meat obtained from ritual slaughter is required by the recipient. This data doesn't really exist. They are often not even owned by entrepreneurs themselves who have contracts with foreign entities. This is just our analysis, very approximate, showing that many of these contracts can be kept calmly, because this part of getting meat from ritual slaughter is not crucial. The first legislative delegation was indeed very narrow, she was only talking about making the State's losses even. The progress we have today, and what we have on the table, that's the amendment that says that... I will refer here, for example, to ritual slaughter, because there is a different regulation concerning entrepreneurs and breeders of fur animals, and another concerning ritual slaughter. To farmers carrying out the Article on the date of entry into force. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a Act as amended by Art. 1 the breeding or breeding of animals which may be slaughtered in a specific manner provided for by religious rites of religious religious unions shall be entitled to compensation from the budget of the State for the limitation or cessation of that activity in connection with the entry into force of Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a Act as amended by Art. 1. Compensation referred to in paragraph: 1 shall be granted at the request of the entity referred to in paragraph. 1; in paragraph 1, the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 2 shall be granted at the request of the farmer referred to in paragraph 2. This could also be the case for entrepreneurs. The Council of Ministers shall, by means of a regulation, determine the body or body competent to grant the compensation referred to in paragraph. 1 and 2, the detailed conditions and arrangements for granting such compensation, taking into account the actual losses incurred by the entities referred to in paragraph 1 or 2 for restricting or stopping activities. 1 and 2 following the entry into force of this provision. This is a delegation that provides the basis for paying full compensation to all those entities who really lose some outlets in this area. Because the situation in the production market is, of course, mobile and loss or increases are due to a number of factors, as the senator said. We will identify those reasons which are linked to the introduction of this provision, and this will certainly include compensation and compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u108	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u109	Yes, sir, thank you very much. You see, you didn't answer the first question, the question of what was underlying the fact that a law so important and so fundamental, violating constitutional principles, was passed in one day, without any public consultation. But I'm going back to your questions. Firstly, I would like to say that the lack of determination of this compensation and the wrong delegation in the law themselves disqualify this law because, according to the legislative technique, it is not possible to adopt a law which does not contain a decision on this matter, namely compensation, and does not contain a proper delegation. A proper delegation is, of course, one which also contains guidelines for the authority to issue a regulation. There are no guidelines here. Secondly, you are quoting the amendment. I'm 23 years of parliamentarianism, and I'm also a lawyer, and this is the first time I've heard an amendment to be a law. The amendment becomes a right when it is adopted, the bill will be signed by the President and published in the Official Journal of the Laws. Therefore, to say that we have an amendment here, so the law can be passed, that is not a justification. Thirdly, the amendment you have read does not contain in my opinion sufficient elements which the delegation to the issuing authority should contain. Fourth, and this is my question... She still refers to the end-user in the supply chain, and I asked specifically whether the compensation would belong and on what basis, because this is not in the bill and this is not specified in the amendment, other operators in the supply chain than the end-user?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u110	Thank you very much. You're welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u111	As for the first question, indeed, Senator, I have not answered why we have passed this bill in a rather short time in Parliament... [[Voice from the room: In the Seym.]] ...in the Seym. And we approved it because we all worked together there, including, in particular, representatives from the Civic Platform. We worked 12 hours in the Committee on Agriculture until 7.10 a.m. to rescind any comments made by associations, organisations and all parliamentarians who attended the meeting of this Committee. Moreover, your brutal assessment of this law also gives a weak testimony to your colleagues, because 124 out of 134 and 133 members of the vote, the parliamentarians, supported this law. Therefore, we issue such a joint witness. We worked with a relative consensus and listened to all the comments that could be made and the questions that have been asked on this matter, and we considered them. [[...about the other Members or not...]] As for the statutory delegation, I am already bringing your senator out of error because there is a scope of the delegation: with regard to the actual losses incurred by the operators referred to in paragraph. One and two. So there's the scope of the delegation, there's the classic scope of the delegation. Therefore, I have no doubt that this is sufficient grounds for... [[Supply chain.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please...]] ...that compensation to pay, compensation to pay where really, really, some restrictions on exports have led to losses on a given trader or farmer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u112	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u113	Thank you very much, Marshal. I have a question for the Member. Why has this law not been notified to the European Union in accordance with the procedure that the draft is being submitted and, at a time when the committee is not commenting, there is a further procedure? Well, those are the rules. In this case, the issue of notification is unclear. We are proceding a law which formally does not have such a notification of the European Union and should have. And my question is: weren't the applicants aware that it had to be obtained in such a situation, it has to be said and admitted Did they not specifically notify whether any other considerations had decided to do so, and if so, please say what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u114	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u115	Mr. Senator, you are an experienced parliamentarians, and I am sure you know the regulation that speaks of notifications, so that you know that it is not a matter of designers, of parliamentary projects that is a matter of notification. There is a procedure that actually points to this and an assessment of what the notification document should be subject to, but this is a matter, firstly, of the marshal who sends the document to be notified, of the whole procedure and, secondly, of the government's mediation in this respect. As far as I'm concerned, your Marshal's notification procedure has been initiated and it will continue. But we need to be clear about what this notification might be about in the first place. And I'm sure the senator knows that because it's based on a complementary opinion from the Senate Legislative Office. Namely, it may concern two elements: firstly, the limitation of business activities in connection with the reduction of livestock farming and, secondly, the limitation of business activities in connection with the running of shelters. One of these elements will be eliminated due to the amendment tabled by us yesterday at the Committee on Agriculture. Thus, the only subject of notification that may arise is the breeding of fur animals only. I would like to remind you that such prohibitions apply in most European countries, and if anyone wants to use the argument for some notification today, it is not known which one can block the introduction of these provisions, say that this is the basis for not voting in favour of these rules, that it is scandalous that this notification does not exist, then I must say that, firstly, the procedure is initiated, and secondly, there is no doubt that this notification process will be positive, because this is the experience of 17 European countries which have exactly the same rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u116	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u117	Mr. Ambassador, don't lecture me. I asked the question, and I expect an answer, not some kind of malice from you. You are in such a role, you are in the Senate of the Republic of Poland... [[Voice from the room: Beautiful, beautiful.]] I have a question: is the notification, isn't it? And should it be when we process, or shouldn't it be? I'm asking for simple, short answers. Yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u118	Thank you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u119	Notification is not a matter of designers, a parliamentary project. As far as I know, the notification procedure is ongoing and can only concern business related to the breeding of fur animals.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, are you satisfied with the answer, or do you still want to ask?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u121	I asked specifically: is she not here? And you say that's not the problem of the applicants. As the representative of the applicants, answer this question, because you should be interested in whether this procedure has been completed or not, not hiding behind you, Marshal Witek, because it is not elegant, Mr President. So answer me, is there a notification or isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u122	Mr. Senator, I don't want to be the middleman when it comes to obtaining knowledge about this matter from your marshal senator. Please direct your interest to the marshal who is starting this whole procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u123	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u124	Excuse me, you're an applicant's representative, and you're incompetent because you can't answer a simple question: is there a notification or isn't it? I want the House to have...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u125	Just as the senator can gain that knowledge, so I, as a Member, can gain that knowledge. As far as I'm concerned, as I asked, it appears that the notification procedure is being initiated, your marshal has initiated this procedure. If the senator has any other knowledge or wants more detail, I encourage you to contact the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u126	Mr. Senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u127	I will say that I am concerned about these answers, because they indicate that the applicant does not know whether there is a notification in this act or not, and in my opinion he should have such knowledge. And I'm gonna end this series of questions with a statement like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u128	Thank you very much, Senator, for the very necessary questions. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u129	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I will ask what I have already asked several times during committee meetings. I'll admit I only got an answer once, I'd call it specific, which is why I'd ask for a specific answer. Well, you originally wanted to ban ritual slaughter for export, both as regards poultry and beef. Once a minority request has been accepted, this will only apply to beef and this will happen by adding it to the article. 34 of the current text of the Act It is already in the original novel, that is, in the law that came from the Sejm. The Commission 3a. In this mouth. 3a we refer to the mouth. 1 of that Article. 34 - this is a key issue The animal at the slaughterhouse can only be killed after having been unconscious by persons with appropriate qualifications. But in this paragraph there is usually a reference and in the footnote we read that this paragraph. Article 1 34 was declared incompatible with the Constitution on 12 December 2014 in so far as it does not permit the slaughter of animals in a slaughterhouse or a slaughterhouse according to the specific methods required by religious rites. In a simple language: The Constitutional Tribunal in December 2014 stated that religious, ritual, or without stunning, no matter what we call it, it is possible in Poland. And that's what our farmers use. This is the present state. The question is whether or not the mouth is added. 3a, which provides that the requirement of deprivation of awareness referred to in paragraph 1 shall apply. 1 shall not apply in the case, etc. etc., it is about ritual slaughter located in the territory of the Republic of Poland, is indeed I don't know what to call that a good expression of your intention. Are you prohibiting ritual slaughter for export by this provision? Well, in this case, after the amendment, only cattle. Because, please note, the current state is that it is possible to slaughter ritual and export, and for the purposes of it, so that it is He called religious unions in the Republic of Poland. Where is this ban? Well, it has to be up to date. Neither in the text of the novel, the amending act nor in all these amendments does it make sense strictly ritual slaughter. In the case of such a text, you enter immediately, I apologize for such a colloquial expression, in a conflict with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. Any agricultural union, trade union of farmers will be able to challenge this to the Court. He has such a right, he has such a legitimacy, because it is formally stated that the provision of the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3a doesn't forbid anything. I don't know if I've made myself clear. Well, if we're talking about some kind of legal condition that's already there, and bans, then they have to be clearly formulated, these prohibitions. Because then they are also the basis for penalizing certain acts. And in the case of pentalization it is not possible to use by default. It must be clearly indicated in the law, which is not allowed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u130	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, I was just analyzing... Because the senator asked exactly the same question at the committee meeting when there was really no conditions to answer that question. But it's pretty precise for me. I mean. the current Article. 34 provides that a spinal animal may be killed only after previous deprivation of consciousness. So there's a warrant to... of course there's not a ban that you're talking about. But it is said that only another solution is possible. Well, in my opinion, that's enough. If we follow the practice, we will see that for a long time this provision was in force and it was applied so. I mean. was prohibited until the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. I judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal refers Of course, with regard to the application submitted to the Court The question of whether the extraction of meat in ritual slaughter for religious purposes is... whether the prohibition in this regard is constitutional or not. That is to say, the Court has also read the prohibition from that standard and has therefore referred to whether this prohibition is non-constitutional. And our way out of the situation and implementation of this judgment by the Constitutional Court is to leave the provision in question here, but to make an exception to what the Constitutional Tribunal has pointed out to us. And reading these provisions together after the amendment, after the amendment, gives us such an effect that we actually have in principle a ban on ritual slaughter by indicating that only another method is possible, and at the same time an exception for poultry and religious rites as regards cattle. None of the opinions of the legislators, both in the Senate and in the Sejm, nor did our opinions indicate that there would be a problem that the senator is talking about, such a typical legal issue, with a ban being imposed and with some kind of exception from this ban being made of our regulations. Well, that's the article. The 34, which will apply in its entirety, is in fact a ban, only so formulated that only one possible solution for the slaughter of bovine animals is indicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u132	Thank you. Mr. Senator, it's okay, do you want to ask? [[We'll stick to our sentences.]] Thank you very much. I ask you to ask the senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u133	Mr President, we have heard that I have heard that these compensations can be paid out of some of the EU funds. Do you think that's possible? Can any EU programme be applied here? I'm pointing out that there's a matter of notification. Do we get, or can we get money from an EU fund for something that hasn't been notified?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u134	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u135	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! This aid and the basis for this aid will be laid down in a Regulation in a specific programme which it will have to In our view, it is quite obvious to be notified as a separate document. And we have a whole year to submit it because compensation, as proposed by the transitional provisions, comes into force on 1 January 2022. Therefore, it will be time to work out the solution and notify it. Because, of course, the senator is right here, suggesting that such a notification is necessary. She will be needed and we will do our best in the world, and this decree of the Council of Ministers will simply have such notification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u136	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Anthony the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. To you, Mr Rapporteur, I have probably even more questions than to the Minister because it is your greater fault, and the Ministry was even yesterday with the Prime Minister's and the Minister's mouths on agriculture, and said that it wants to make amendments that are going in the direction that I expected. So, Mr President, first of all, I would like you to answer the question that Mrs Bakerska wanted you to be referred to. Maybe briefly, by the way, it's a matter of vacathio legis and more compensation that either this or this. You were also at the agriculture committee meeting yesterday, and you probably heard one of the senators say that the minks are suffering from COVID-19, they're infected with SARS-CoV-2, and maybe they're moving it too, I don't know. Do you have any knowledge of this? And I also have a question for you... Because yesterday, the senators on the committee voted for rejection. If this could also be voted out in the Senate, and this would go to the Sejm, then will you vote as well? And will there be discipline again, as there was discipline in the adoption of this law, to reject it and to approach it in a different way? And are you in favour of three pets, one fur animals, and one ritual slaughter? Because when it comes to ritual slaughter, I think we will be almost pioneers in the European Union because only one country has so far introduced such a radical ban on ritual slaughter. You said today that the slaughter of poultry is a little more humane, and I would agree with that. But this slaughter of cattle It is not a terrible thing either, for there are all the rules obeyed. Maybe I'm less familiar with it, but ritual slaughter, as far as poultry is concerned, isn't much different from traditional slaughter. Or a non-rhythmic. But I'd like to tell you, paraphrasing your statement that it's a little more humane, that it's the government that's got farmers into beef cattle farming a little bit, because, as we've been dealing with, It was the government that strongly promoted the switch from pork meat to beef. There was even a whole campaign, also on TV... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, I would very much like to ask...]] ...and so on... I'm done. I'm done. I'm done. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please.]] Mrs. Marshal, I'm almost done. I want to finish because this is the more guilty side. The rapporteur's Members are more guilty than the government in terms of this and not a different form of the law and its preparation in such a way and not in any other way. And one more question: did the film force you to submit this project in this form? We approve these important issues for Polish agriculture. I think that such key solutions should be introduced in greater consensus. And I don't think that under the influence of the movie or the influence of agricultural protests, we should make such regulations. And I have to tell you, you guys pulled an old project the other day that you gave up earlier. That's why we're having so much trouble with this bill today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u138	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator, I found out about this film after we submitted this project, so that it was certainly not a groundbreaking argument behind this bill. Although the film is actually appalling and gives a lot of truth about what was happening in such slaughterhouses. We, of course, urge and encourage the development of beef production in this area, because consumption is far lower than in European countries. These trends are obvious. The more we get rich, the more beef is consumed by society. Moreover, even during the ban that was in force between 2012 and 2014, we had, firstly, an increase in consumption and, secondly, an increase in exports. So that we don't prejudice, and we're actually counting on it. And, of course, we will continue to encourage this. First of all, beef production will be profitable and second, beef will be a good choice for consumers in Poland. As to how Parliament, specifically the Sejm, will behave after this bill has come out of the Senate, I am not entitled to make a commitment to speak, but I am convinced that the majority of the Sejm is determined to make the bill enter into force. And we will be heading in this direction when it comes to voting in the Sejm. So please believe that as we have seen our determination at the stage of the bill, so to speak, before the Senate, so in this final stage of the legislative process this determination will also be. And this discipline from the first votes will also be preserved. As for the agricultural committee and the comment you were talking about, I, frankly, have not heard it, so I find it difficult to relate to it. I was at the whole committee meeting and I didn't hear that argument, so I really can't relate to it. As for the approach that it would be possible to stop working on this law and start working on three others, I do not attach myself to what this document would be called or how many of these documents would be so as to be able to carry out it. On the contrary, such consolidation of matter in one law makes it more comprehensive and also compatible with each other. There is such a fear that, with different laws that would take place at different times, it could be that one on the other would come in or have conflicting solutions. So here I'd have a much bigger concern. In addition to these problems which are now and which we need to explain at the substantive level, there would probably also be a lot of problems such formal, procedural problems with parallel work on 3 different laws. As a lawyer, I am not attached to how this should be regulated in terms of: 1 act or 3. In my view, it is important what law has its contents and whether these regulations are compatible with others in the law, but also with other laws, not whether there should be 1 law or 2 or 3 law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u140	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Janusz Bubbler's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u141	Thank you very much, Marshal. There have already been questions, among others. Senator Poory, about why we suddenly have poultry treated differently than beef. The Minister's explanation is that it is likely that it is not a certain part of beef that goes to the western market, if it was not kosher or haal, it would go there too. But these are conjectures, and this is completely false, because I only have the information from the GUS, which indicates how this beef meat is. Total beef exports: 382 thousand t with a total value of PLN 6 billion. Export share of kosher and halls in the total stock exchange of Poland: from PLN 1.5 billion to PLN 2 billion. Kosher and halal production is higher-margin. The Jewish and Muslim community accounts for around 31.5 million consumers in the European Union and consumes 10 kg per capita more beef than the EU average consumption. And one more given and I have a lot of data, i.e. The beef industry in Poland offers the possibility of maintaining for about 1.5 million people in the country. I will still raise some issues in the discussion, but now I simply ask the question: how would these data indicate that beef can be exported from Poland to the west, but not necessarily kosher or halal, because it would have been bought anyway? It might have been bought, but it wasn't with the money. In Israel... [[I'm still... because I'm done talking...]] In Israel we get 25... in Israel we get And these are the best prices. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. PLN per kg. This is the 2019 data. And here's a discussion of this type: now poultry can do that, and beef can't... I just don't understand the legislators who tried to say first that we absolutely exclude ritual slaughter, and now all of a sudden it can be that we treat poultry differently from beef. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u142	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u143	Ms. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, 6.7% all slaughterhouses of bovine animals are slaughtered religiously, ritually. 6.7%. Of which 95% exports go to European countries. So what you're talking about, Senator, about Israel, is some percentage fraction of all exports, all production, a percentage fraction. A in the case of ritual slaughter that's not more than 0,5%. Therefore, we are talking about this scale when it comes to the actual extraction of meat from ritual slaughter for obvious directions, where this meat is expected from ritual slaughter. The rest of the way... We have a market diagnosis and it is clear that the slaughterhouse that slaughters ritually does not have two different methods of slaughter, only one. And every order of meat from this slaughterhouse, from this slaughterhouse, is carried out by the same method. So if a processing plant from Portugal is reported and says that it needs beef, it makes a contract with such a slaughterhouse, it kills animals and exports this meat to Portugal, without saying that the meat is to be obtained in this ritual slaughter mode. It is therefore, of course, kind of immeasurable, because it results from contracts between entrepreneurs. I'm sure the senator was looking for it, trying to get it, and it was probably hard to get it, and there's no such precise data in the Ministry of Agriculture either. We have data on all exports, of course, we have on production, we have on export shares in all production, but not on this option very important from the point of view of this law, which is precisely the question of how much these contracts are at risk because of this ban we want to talk about here. That's what the data says. Mr. Senator has these figures given in absolute figures, of course, and it may seem very much: 16 slaughterhouses, 16 slaughterhouses deal with ritual slaughter in Poland. Yeah, 16 over 239. These are the figures for the slaughter of bovine animals. And these are the data checked, indisputable.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u144	Thank you very much. Go ahead, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u145	I will give an example in the discussion of the bet I was in. Last week I went and saw a bet like this, I have GUS data, also from there, but I also have data from the bet about this particular bet. Because we're telling... [[What voivodship, Mr. Senator?]] Please? [[What voivodship?]] Wielkopolska. The plant employs 1,600 people. Almost 80% production is for export And it's kosher, and halal. Each plant, probably every such case, must be considered separately, but 1 000 600 people employed in a small village, counting, I don't know, 8,000 inhabitants or less... Almost half the people in this town are losing their jobs. 350 000 bovine animals produced by farmers from these areas are processed there within a year... If we look at the whole system... Those 1.5 million people I was talking about just now that they're employed in the beef business, it's definitely true.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u146	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u147	Indeed, Mr. Senator, the fact is that in Wielkopolska we have production above average, but it is still 16 entities. It would be good to ask these producers, those 16 to whom we address these compensations, these compensations Theoretically, they are these entities. Whether they will transform within a year of the entry into force of the Act into an activity which will be permitted by law or closed down. I asked and it turned out that most entrepreneurs will try to comply with the rules so that the measures of beef production can be maintained, and that they will work to ensure that their share of export sales is at a similar level. So I'm calm about it... because these entrepreneurs are mostly very efficient, resourceful people who have been doing well many times before. If you had asked this entrepreneur what he was doing 10 years ago, I assure you, you would have heard that he was doing activities a little different than now, and 15 years ago he was producing something completely different, working around agricultural production or meat production. Therefore, I am convinced that they now have a solution, an idea of how to further produce, how all these people continue to employ and how to obtain animals from residents from the surrounding villages, the towns that maintained that they were delivering animals to this slaughterhouse, to this slaughterhouse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u148	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u149	I do not wish to discuss here, but if the Member asks me if I have asked him... I asked him almost everything and he said to me that having 300 million credits, mainly on the kosher line, employing 40 Israeli specialists who at every stage control the animal so that it doesn't suffer because the meat will be unpretentious... [[To make him suffer, to make him suffer...]] When we tell him that since 2022. He won't do it anymore, the banks will immediately give him all the credits. He knows that. The Minister is only right that they can handle themselves, but those who work there can't handle it. Because he's not gonna turn this line from kosher to different because it's not gonna pay him off. So those people out there who are employed, and the farmers who give these cattle to this plant, I'm sure... I'm not saying that we all do, because we have farmers who are good managers, too, and they manage in some way. But that's not the point. We must have a stable functioning of the economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u150	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u151	Mr. Senator, you touched the point. These 40 Israeli specialists are there to make sure these animals suffer as much as possible. That's their job. They suffered as much as they could... If they suffer too little, then the meat, this production will be considered unpretentious. That's the whole problem, that's the humanity we're talking about here. This group is there just to make sure So you can eat this meat later. To make the animal suffer as much as possible. Thank you very much. [[I'll never speak again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u152	Thank you very much. Senator Andrzej Spider's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u153	Dear Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I'd like to ask you about the ban on the cultivation of fur animals in legal terms. For what reason should the State prohibit only part of the public from doing business while similar businesses may be carried out by other entrepreneurs, such as sheep farmers, hens, geese, goats They have no restrictions imposed, and mink and fox farmers do. There is immediate constitutional doubt about equality of law vis-à-vis different entrepreneurs. How are you gonna explain this to me? Just so bright and specific...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u154	You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u155	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! It is clear here that, as long as fur production is the only business profile, the only advantage will be fur... Today, due to all laws and standards worldwide, such activities are non-humane activities, because the effect and use of fur products is only luxury or paraluxus, for a very narrow group of people. That's why we're doing this. we do not accept, just as most countries in Europe and the world do. What else is the production of animal meat, which is absolutely included in the cultural code of the whole world, the consumption of meat is obvious, necessary, beneficial and here there is no doubt that such production is prohibited. So that's the subtle difference. Nowadays, we should not allow such treatment of animals in order to obtain luxury goods. However, in order to feed the entire community or the whole world, meat production is quite obvious and no one has the slightest doubt about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u156	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator. The senator's asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u157	I didn't ask you about one or another, let's say, ideological arguments or anything else, but about our legal aspect and the constitution. That's what I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u158	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u159	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Well, there are activities that also bring great income and which would give entrepreneurs considerable income. We can introduce the possibility of large-scale production of hard drugs, and this is definitely going to be worthwhile. Only that there are limits by which the state operates, that is why it places these barriers and these limits, and this limit is to obtain from animals, with their great suffering, products in the form of fur, i.e. products which are later used only for luxury goods. That's the thing. I referred to ideology because it is at the root of this idea that animals should not be abused only so that the percentage of society or the world in general would benefit from this good, which in this way, occupied by animal harm, is produced. It is therefore prohibited for entrepreneurs to produce this type of production. There are fewer and fewer followers... Moreover, human consciousness today is such that even though there are no prohibitions I stress: no production of this kind in Poland has decreased by 47% in recent years. That's because the consumer market has been depleted, because people are increasingly aware, they choose organic products, they choose maybe artificial products, but they do it, knowing that it is environmentally friendly, that it is the 21st century approach.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u160	Thank you. The senator still wants to ask... [[Thank you very much. We're gonna end this discussion because I'm talking about heaven and you're talking about bread. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you a question remotely. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u161	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! The proposed amendments, which were tabled after the conference by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, except for one exception, largely meet the demands of farmers and animal protection organisations that have been submitted to my senator's office. The application was also submitted to my senator's office by veterinarians, in accordance with the opinion of the National Veterinary and Medical Chamber. About this issue, among others. At the meeting of the Legislative Commission, you spoke to Senator Marek Borowski, and made the appropriate amendments. I, too, have such appropriate corrections, it's about mandatory identification and registration of dogs and cats by introducing a chip system. The main objective of the law is, of course, humanitarianism towards animals and the fight against homelessness. I would like to ask whether the applicants support this solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u162	Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, my opinion on this matter is probably insignificant, but I must tell you and the senator that I am absolutely in favour of this kind of solution, i.e. to introduce a nationwide animal registration system. This would eliminate the many problems we have today due to the lack of such a register. Moreover, I spoke with the new Minister of Agriculture, who is very supportive of such solutions. You just have to be aware of one thing. Such a system cannot be introduced by a parliamentary project. This requires building a whole system, it requires transition periods and some systematic action that we will not achieve by working on a parliamentary project. I will encourage the new Minister of Agriculture to address this issue. His sensitivity to this is well known, so I am convinced that he will begin this work. Well, it's not only going to start, it's going to finish it, and then it's going to implement it. Mr. Senator, I hope that you will support us in this work, too, because they are really expected. Today, such registers exist, but they are incompatible. Besides, they are run by commercial companies that require fees. And besides, this whole apparatus is created by local governments. These tools are voluntary, and therefore there are situations where some people at self-government level are subject and some are not. There's no law to force this little part to adapt. So I'm gonna be a big fan of this solution, and I'm gonna support it. I think such an initiative will come soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u164	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Ambassador, I have three questions. First of all, I would like to commend you on the direction you're headed. Well, let's at least take the chip you were just talking about. This is the right direction when it comes to combating the homeless of animals However, this also applies to other amendments to be made, such as those allowing private operators to run shelters. Yeah, that's a good direction, but I have a question for you. As these provisions on animal shelters may be extended to include those employers... My question is: what about the huts, Mr. Speaker? The reason I'm asking is that in my town, which I've had the privilege of managing for 17 years, the hugs have been doing a great job. We need more confidence in local governments. It has been decided by local governments so far. Like my city, they were free to choose. Well, the shelter is unfortunately very expensive. Running shelters is often a profitable business, but we have solved this problem well through huts that work really well, and it's for little money. We've been in control of this, and we've been a model city for 10 years with regard to the fight against the homelessness of animals. And that raises a specific question: what about the hugs? Will it be necessary to eliminate them, or will they still be able to function? The second question is whether the mandatory sterilization of pets was also considered. Of course, I'm not talking about all the animals. I'm just throwing that password. For example, the compulsory sterilization of animals, which first go to shelters, are later adopted by people, and then are often thrown into the street. Well, unfortunately, that happens too. Has the issue of mandatory sterilization of animals been considered? And one last question, Mr. Will: why such a pace of procedure in the case of this law? A month ago, no one ever talked about it, no one thought we were going to debate it today. What's the rush? The fact that this bill is needed does not be questioned, but that it should be refined, and for that it takes time. What's the rush? What does it say? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u166	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u167	As for the moment the bill appeared, it doesn't matter. We came up with this project as part of the legislative offensive that we announced in early autumn. This is one of the laws that these announcements were about. We have already announced such a project. As I said, the data on the deadline for submitting the project and the duration of the work in the Sejm do not reflect the depth of the debate that was held there. Mr Senator, if you ask your colleagues in the Sejm, they will surely testify that at the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which was discussing this project, anyone could have said anything, anyone could have tabled amendments. This debate lasted several hours, so here really there were no restrictions in this regard. Of course, there is a COVID-19 pandemic, which is why the legislative processes are, I would say, rough, so that parliamentarians meet here as rarely as possible. Well, once they meet, they've got a little more work to do. This is the only aspect that needs to be taken into account. Let us remember this somewhat specific situation in which we are in. I'm sure no one was complaining about us working too fast. Perhaps not all the amendments have been taken into account, that is the result of different types of votes and decisions But I'm sure everyone could have made such an amendment, spoken out, made their point. As far as hugs are concerned, our draft law does not to any extent affect this solution, i.e. I assume, however they worked... Because I understand that the senator pointed out that it was a local government agenda. In this situation, under the new rules, they will act as local authorities that protect and provide care to homeless animals. They will therefore have to comply with these requirements. We impose additional requirements in this law on entrepreneurs who continue, who want to continue their activities. From the point of view of the shelters, we have minor requirements, for example, regarding the non-employment of persons convicted of crimes involving mistreatment or mistreatment of animals. And only such new requirements, for example for staff, will there be these shelters they touched directly. And if these solutions at local government level have worked well, I think they will still be able to function as self-government agendas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u168	Thank you very much. And I'm asking you to ask me a question... [[I'll ask you a question. May I, Mrs. Marshal?]] There you go. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u169	Still on sterilization, sir. I didn't get an answer from the Member. Have you considered the possibility of mandatory sterilization of pets? I'm asking because this is the most effective way to fight homelessness. Of course, it is about selected animals, i.e. animals that go to shelters, and then passed on e.g. as part of an adoption.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u170	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u171	It seems, if I remember correctly, that there was such an amendment, I do not know, some proposal which has emerged in this regard, regarding the introduction of this solution into the law. And there were actually a lot of positive voices about it. I, too, recognize these rations that this is a good way to reduce the homelessness of animals, only that this is exactly the same situation as when it comes to a registry solution. The point is that here these solutions concerning who, how, how, at what time, what kind of animals, what groups, what rules, who buys, all should be structured and this is not a matter for a parliamentary document, but for detailed government regulation. I think showing such an idea somewhere at government level, at the level of the Ministry of Agriculture is a good solution, this is a good place to discuss it. I personally support this, but it requires more work than the parliamentary project, the system work. So I think this should be the subject of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u172	Thank you. Senator Rafał Ambrozik's question, please. [[Can you hear me, Marshal?]] Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, Minister, I would like to ask you about such a matter. In fact, it's a total ban. ritual slaughter One second, I'm just gonna open an attachment. The total ban on killing animals without stunning results from Council Regulation 1099/2009. At the same time, Art. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 4 that Regulation authorised and allows Member States to derogate from that rule in the case of animals slaughtered according to the specific methods required by religious rites, provided that slaughter takes place in a slaughterhouse. And I have a question for you. Is it true that the government of the Platform and PSL in 2012 waived this derogation, i.e. recognised that Poland would not benefit from this derogation and introduced an absolute ban on ritual slaughter? In view of this absolute ban imposed in 2012 by the PSL Government and the Platforms, have any compensation been paid to Polish farmers, producers, slaughterhouse owners? Do you have any knowledge of this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u174	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u175	Yes, of course, this topic is known, it was very loud about it at the time. Indeed, there has been a complete ban on ritual slaughter, and this exception in connection with religious rites has, of course, not been with us either. I have the answer of Commissioner Borg, who, in response to the question whether Poland has made use of this requirement, wrote that together with Finland, Lithuania and Sweden, it did not benefit from this requirement. So, in fact, you introduced a total ban on ritual slaughter in 2012. Moreover, there was no provision which at that time provided for any compensation in this regard. This is the truth about what our predecessors did, and that needs to be made clear. At that time no one cared about farmers, simply introduced a ban, the regulation entered into force, there was no derogation in this regard. The second point is that, even during this ban, exports of beef have increased, both consumption and exports have increased. In this respect, it is also true that on the one hand this situation is different from ours, because we foresee compensation in the event of real losses, if it were to occur, but on the other hand we predict that a situation similar to that in 2013 and 2014 could happen, when, despite the total ban, we have lost nothing in terms of production and export itself, but, on the other hand, this export simply started. So, yes, it's true. Thank you, Senator, for this question, because it is very important. And I have a document that clearly states that at that time there was no concession, the introduction of a ban on ritual slaughter in principle was without compensation, without any exceptions to religious rites, which was, of course, pointed out to us by the Constitutional Tribunal, because it was an improper act. The consequences of this law are still present and we are ordering this system by proposing a solution which is, firstly, in accordance with the regulation prohibiting ritual slaughter and, secondly, in line with the ruling of the Constitutional Court, which states that ritual slaughter should be permitted in connection with religious rites. And we're not opening the door very wide here, we're just showing that there's a ban on cattle, and for poultry we're allowing this ritual slaughter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u176	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven. [[Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Listening to questions and answers...]] [[Voice from the room: Can't hear. Microphone!]] Please turn on the microphone. [[Voice from the hall: Or put the card in.]] [[The card's in, and...]] It's for somebody else, Senator... [[Yeah, yeah.]] Come to where he is...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u177	It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. By listening to this debate, or actually the answer of the Member to the question, the Member who represents the applicants and designers of this law, I hear that you did not address some of the solutions, because this is the task of the government. Question: Do you think that interference in such an important part of the economy, such as agriculture, farming, slaughter, trade in meat... Did the Members have enough data? Because here you are proposing very detailed solutions, and in the case of pets, which many of us would like to pay much attention to, you are not prepared for any specific solutions, and you promise these solutions only when the government takes care of it. Let me repeat the question: for what reasons did Members consider that 11 hours of work in the Sejm would be enough to resolve matters that are important and important for the economy as a whole, and they did not find time for simpler, effortless solutions, but those that actually testify to our taking care of the smaller brothers? How do you explain this? For what reason, when it comes to big solutions, yes, and without government, without consultation, without calculations, and when it comes to solutions less expensive and more friendly, consistent with what we think about animals every day, then no, because it's too detailed, and here we have to wait for the government? Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u178	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u179	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Well, we in our own environment discussed this law and discussed the most difficult elements of it before it entered Parliament. How many hours did it take? Well, as much as you needed to discuss this bill. Since, at 7.10 a.m. at the committee meeting, Members, especially from the Civic Platform, stopped making amendments and asked for this bill, since we have clarified all the doubts that were connected with this law, we have moved on. There was no problem to continue this work if only there was such demand. The fact that in a few hours your marshal has appointed a vote on this bill is a completely technical matter. The question is: was there a sufficient and unlimited debate at the committee's meeting on this bill? Yeah, she was. Organisations, associations participated in this, Members of the Civic Platform asked questions, tabled amendments, exhausted the subject and moved on. Mrs Senator, as far as other solutions could be introduced by Members in the parliamentary project, I would say that a system of chipping animals could probably be introduced. But the question is: should such an initiative, rather unique, be used in every matter? I myself am the author of a pharmacy for a pharmacist, a law that amended pharmaceutical law. With my hands I wrote a bill, which was also procedated by this honourable House. Indeed, a system solution could be put in place in this way. But not in all situations should parliamentarians replace the government, because an administrative apparatus in the form of ministries, offices, a camera with access to documents and statistics... The opportunities are much greater, much wider in the case of the government than in the case of Members, and therefore Members' actions are simply difficult here. But since the senator's asking, I'm gonna say we could probably do it. If someone insisted, it would actually be a project on the animal chip system that would be written in parliamentary mode. The senator is quite effective in mobilising me in this matter and if it turns out that the Ministry of Agriculture is so involved in other projects that it is unable to carry out this process, I do not rule out that we will take care of it. But first of all, I would direct the expectations of this activity towards the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you. [[I'm just gonna ask...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u180	Thank you. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u181	Mr President, in agreement with the many arguments that you have just made, I would like to ask you one thing: do you not believe in the intelligence of the body you were talking to? I'm asking because I feel like you don't believe in our intelligence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u182	It's hard to answer that question. I very much respect the Senate's contribution to lawmaking. I have repeatedly said that you are doing a really good job here. If we're getting rid of the element of political competition, there's really a lot of good going on here. I have been here many times, representing the government, because at the same time I am a minister of funds and regional policy, and I have always had good experience in this area. I'm gonna keep saying that if we're not politics and we're working on projects, it's just good things coming out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u183	Thank you very much. Senator Kazimierz Kleina's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u184	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! I'd like to ask... I'm not a specialist in all the things we're talking about here. The Act concerns inter alia. slaughter of vertebrates, animals that are vertebrates. Does it involve... Fish are vertebrates, too. Does it also apply to the way fish are slaughtered?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u185	You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u186	Of course, it doesn't concern fish. There's... [[Where does it say that? Fish are vertebrates, right?]] [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[And the bill concerns the slaughter of vertebrates.]] It's in the mother's bill, I guess. It's in the Animal Protection Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u187	Because then it would be a question of how, according to this law, to slaughter fish, especially those that are caught by fishermen in nets that are caught, I don't know, on hooks, etc. Because they should be killed after previous stunning. [[Or carp...]] Well, the carp thing is simple. Right? There's a way to do this. But... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: It is not so obvious.]] I'm sure your marshal has done this many times. Right? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian Stanecka: No. And it's not obvious. Even the Supreme Court has recently dealt with carp and its treatment.]] Well, that's it. That's why it's my question. Of course, I have had many more questions, but most of them have already been asked by the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. I think that's the last question today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u188	Mr. Senator! Allow me to treat these fish as if individually and may be developing this subject in a moment, because I would not want to make any mistake here. On the one hand, you're right, and on the other hand, we, when we designed the bill, didn't particularly think about fish. It takes some thought. Okay? [[I have one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u189	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u190	When you decided to eliminate mink farming, did you think about how it would be organised to pick up those parts that remained after slaughter of poultry and other animals, which were basically 100% ...of course the part that was suitable for further processing. 'Cause, you know, like... feathers, etc. shall be disposed of. But postmortem waste, it was, actually, it was. That's what I've been told, from a report like this. It is fully consumed by breeders. Have you considered how this will be resolved after the ban on mink and fur animals, how will these residues be disposed of? Did... Here, some Members responded in a simple way: we will build many more post-mortem waste disposal facilities. They said it would happen very quickly. And the localization process of such a disposal plant, if it is favorable to residents, municipalities, etc., is a minimum of 2 years. It's just a localization process. And then construction, etc., etc. But normally, municipalities and residents do not agree to the location of such establishments. How would you see this problem, how would you like to solve it, how this law solves it? Because it doesn't apply to breeders, but to processors and poultry farmers. That's a pretty important problem for them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u191	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u192	Mr. Senator, you're right, there are vessels connected. I mean. on the one hand, the poultry industry uses these post-mortem elements of fur animals, and on the other hand, fur livestock farming uses products produced in the production of poultry. But it is that these post-mortem products also have value, they are sold to fur farms. Therefore, the question is how this post-mortem material, such as poultry, from chickens, can be otherwise used. And here it is not true that all these parts were used for fur animals. Because they were also used And they are, all over the world they are, too. E.g. for the production of animal feed. So I'm convinced that... [[Well, I'm just saying karma...]] ...no one of a kind of product will dispose of it if he doesn't have to, and he's going to try to use it as a substitute for dog food or other animals. Because this is also how these elements are used. I understand that it might be smaller too, but he was still painting. For I will remind you that the demand for fur animals has fallen by more than half. Therefore, the collection of post-mortem waste from poultry production by such farms was also much smaller. However, they were additionally produced because the production of poultry was increasing. Therefore, producers were looking for good markets for the collection of these types of products. And it turns out that, for example, the production of dry food that can be purchased in the store... They are also made of this type of products. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'll ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u193	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u194	So you assume that after the mink farm has been closed, the products will be fed to cats and dogs and will increase the number of dogs and cats raised in Poland? Is that what this is all about? [[No, no.]] Because someone, I understand, is going to have to naturalize it. Well, because there's a mechanism and a key, there's got to be some wisdom in this country, right? We want this waste to continue to be used. They will not be consumed by fur animals, those that are grown on the skin, this will increase the breeding of dogs, cats and other pets that will consume it. Is that what I understand the purpose of this procedure?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u195	No, that's not the point. This is the senator's idea. [[No, no, it's not my idea. But that's how I see it.]] But he seems ridiculous. [[But you suggested that this would increase the production of pet feed.]] No, you didn't misunderstand the senator. Your Senator's idea is very interesting, but I had another one. [[Well, what's the other idea?]] I mean. This type of product has so far been very easily disposed of to producers of fur animals, no other use and other recipients of this type of product have been sought. In a situation where producers of fur animals received less and less, and eventually they would not be able to receive at all 'Cause I'm reminding you that production has fallen by half in five years. It is looking for a different use of this type of product. And they found this use because they created, for example, dry feeds, which are actually increasingly produced from this type of product. Therefore, I am calm about the fact that... it's not like it's all that fur animals are picking up, it's gonna have to be recycled. Well, maybe part of it is, because some of them are actually specific, so part of it will be, but I hope that such a product will largely be used further in such an economic circulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u196	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u197	Thank you very much. Mr President, I have a question which is constantly asked by reconstructors, i.e. various historical groups, which often use animals in their performances, performances, or reproductions of some famous events in history; they are most often horses. Therefore, the question is: is this law read literally, in this version, which came to us from the Sejm I'm not talking about the one who comes out of the Senate because we don't know what form she'll be in, which is why I'm referring to the one who came to us from the Seym. Does it in any way restrict or hinder the pursuit of this kind of passion? Does this bill affect it or not? And the second thing is related to what you asked Senator Klein. Do the applicants not consider that other laws should also make appropriate changes, taking into account those amendments which the Senate will possibly introduce, in particular in the Waste Act? Because it's gonna be a big problem. And I would not share this optimism about the issue of the disposal of the various waste remaining from meat production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u198	Thank you very much. Please answer me, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u199	With regard to the reconstruction groups that deal with this well-known and valued activity, we do not impose restrictions in this respect and this law does not affect this activity. Of course, this activity must be carried out with as little suffering as possible for animals, and there is a general statement here that such activity must not endanger the life, health or suffering of animals. And that's the only requirement we have in this situation. But we certainly will not prohibit this type of activity, because it is of all means beneficial, but must be conducted in accordance with rational, humane principles.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u200	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u201	I have one more question about the dog business, which is the one that... [[Like what?]] Professionals, those who serve in various specialised services, e.g. Police, Border Guard. These dogs are subject to a specific training cycle, which someone may, when treating the record literally, consider to be some form of tormenting these animals. I am not talking about any amendments proposed by the committees or whether they will be adopted by the Senate. Is there any way that makes it harder for those institutions that employ business dogs to live? And do you, for example? The increase in the space of the pens, which will now be in force under this law, will not cause additional costs? 'Cause if we assume that some kind of service hires, for example. 5,000 dogs, and a playpen costs 6,000 zlotys, so for this institution it costs about 30 million zlotys. Whether it was analyzed by the authors of the law and whether This is a fundamental question of mine. In any way, by literally reading your proposed records, there may be limitations in this respect, which would result in a decrease in the efficiency of these services in their statutory activities which they undertake for our safety and life? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u202	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u203	Mr. Senator, we are writing down one very general rule in particular, taking care of these animals and their well-being. The training of animals for spectacular, special purposes, namely those concerning services and defences, cannot be conducted in a way that causes their suffering, it is quite obvious and such a record is included in the act. We're slightly modifying it against the previous one. But we go further because we provide for a lot of rules that deal with the fate of these animals after they leave the service. That is, at a time when an animal actually becomes less useful to the ministry and has played an amazing role for many years, having its guardian, we guarantee a certain kind of benefit, you can say, a quasi-emergent for the animal, so that it can be maintained, for example by the guardian who previously trained them and for example. On a daily basis, he served with him. So we move on. Firstly, we do not prohibit this activity, and secondly, we absolutely support it. For it simply to make sense, we even provide for a benefit in this regard. As for the requirements for the location of animals, or of pens or their whereabouts, we can actually see such a situation that it would be possible to think of solutions that would otherwise treat special places, including the place of temporary residence of animals, such as shelters or places where animals are staying for some time during the ministry or during the absence of such service. And we're thinking of introducing a limited standard that would show a slightly different standard than that of a pet kept in a pen somewhere near the house. The Law on the State Inspection of Animal Protection will therefore be examined. We also want to take care of this standard for the services and possibly for shelters and temporary premises for animals. The point is to set certain standards in this bill. Today is the basis, the basis for the Minister of Agriculture to issue these standards, only it is, as it were, untapped. The Minister has the right to issue such a regulation and we will probably benefit from it. We will urge the Minister of Agriculture to use this basis and to issue a regulation which will establish these standards for the maintenance of animals used for special purposes. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u204	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Antoni the Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u205	It's been a long time now. As the Member has already mentioned his merits in the pharmacies bill, I must tell you that I was not in favour of this law. By the way, you wanted to destroy one of the largest companies in Toruń and deprive thousands of employees of this company of very brutal methods. Luckily, you didn't make it. I hope you can't do it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u206	No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. [[Thank you very much.]] Minister Michał Dworczyk, a member of the Council of Ministers, was authorised to represent the government's position during parliamentary work. Minister Paweł Szrot is with us in his replacement. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Paweł Szrot. Mr. Marshal, I have spoken on a general matter before you...]] Okay, then I'll ask you a question... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] At present, senators can report no more than a minute of questioning to the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are questions, Minister, so I invite you. The first question you ask is Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u207	Thank you very much. Minister, we're discussing a lot... I mean, we're asking questions about this bill. I have a fundamental question. In the opinion presented by the government to this version of the bill, which came to us after the Parliament's work... Well, it's an opinion, let's call it, affirmative to this project. And now the government itself has come to the conclusion that this law was not perfect, since it proposes amendments to it. And there may be other adjustments. So I'd like to ask you what it's like to evaluate this bill. Was she really perfect in the Seym version? What happened to change this law? I also ask because some of the Members of the largest parliamentary club in the Sejm Nearly 60 Members of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, who did not support this law, have suffered various disciplinary penalties to varying degrees because they did not vote in favour of this law in this version. And now: since this bill was wrong, these Members were wrongly given these disciplinary penalties, because now it turns out that they were just right. I would like to ask you how you feel about this situation and why that opinion was positive and now it has to be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u208	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Why has the opinion changed? The opinion has not changed in principle, it is still positive, but has been modified in some way. Yesterday, Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about this during his speech with Minister Puda. Today, Mr Buda also mentioned this by representing the applicants. This modification of the position, a recommendation for certain solutions which have been consummated by Marshal Pęk's amendments, is the result of a broad discussion which, in the public, media sphere, has been carried out on this project, the voices which have been voiced in this matter, the requests which have been tabled. Both the government side, presenting their positions and recommendations, as well as the Members of the applicant, agreed that some of these votes should be taken into account. This is not a change of position, it is a certain modification in terms of specific details. Mr. Senator, you asked me about disciplinary matters. In my opinion... [[No, no, I...]] In my opinion... [[It wasn't a question for the Minister. I was just presenting the situation.]] You're ahead of my... [[I don't expect an answer from you.]] You've overtaken my answer, Senator. I don't think this is the place, nor am I the right target for this kind of thing. The meeting of the parliamentary club is the right place, and representatives of the authorities of the club are addressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u210	Please, Mr. Senator. Do you want to ask?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u211	Yeah, I'd just like to ask. Of course, I wouldn't have touched on the subject, the subject of discipline, if it hadn't become public. He became public and became the subject of public discussion, so I have the right to express my opinion in this respect. My question, in view of what the Minister has just said, is this. Well, since the government is modifying its position because there was consultation, because opinions appear, wasn't it better to wait with this law, to have this consultation first, to work out a position that, let's say, would more reflect the objective situation that existed and not to do that at the moment we are sitting and thousands of farmers are on the streets of Warsaw? I believe that this situation would not have happened if the dialogue had tried to draw up a formula for this law which would not have caused additional We have a lot of problems with COVID and other social tensions and discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u212	Mr. Senator, I take your statement as a kind of personal comment on how to proceed. And in response, I can only say that the government is taking part in the legislative process in a dynamic way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u213	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I am generally very positive about this direction, i.e. moving towards a compromise and e.g. The introduction of the law is still a minority proposal at the moment, but I hope that it will be voted on. A certain procedure related to compensation not only, as it had been before, for animal owners in circuses, slaughterhouse owners or fur farms, but also for farmers. This is an important issue: also for farmers. However, in all of these procedures the wording of "real losses' is used for the limitation or cessation of activities. If you think about it more deeply, it may not even be about the actual losses, but about the lost benefits. If you stop doing something, you don't have anything in the future. The question is whether this phrase is happy. Will the idea of this, namely compensation, then be properly consummated in specific specific provisions of the Council of Ministers, or should we expand this provision, add something à la guidelines to this regulation of the Council of Ministers? Because these are two different issues: real losses and lost benefits.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u215	It's really a civil law canon, and we have to... I mean. applicants, the authors of the amendments must use this wording. However, I would also like to remind you With all due respect to the High House, the ladies and gentlemen of the senators It is not entirely so that it was on the initiative of the Senate that this compensation institution was introduced. They were introduced by the amendment already at the stage of the Parliament's work. The Senate in its amendment only made it very clear, supplemented, improved this record. Well, the point is to be consistent with objective truth. I have, for the moment, a declaration from the Ministry of Agriculture that these matters that you have spoken of, plus some issues related to enabling production to be profiled, the Minister will try to include in the implementing acts and this will be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u216	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Antoni the Man in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u217	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, in the case of this law, you are a more liberal face than the current Minister of Agriculture, who presented it yesterday at the Committee on Agriculture. That's why I gave up some of the questions I have for the ministry. But, as I mentioned earlier, only that, by addressing other representatives, these amendments, which the Prime Minister proposed yesterday with the Minister of Agriculture, are going in the right direction. However, the Minister of Agriculture is still burdened with a fundamental sin. He was the first representative of the applicants of this law and he was the one who pushed through this fast legislative process in the Sejm. I would like to go back to a certain aspect when it comes to ritual slaughter of cattle. Because investments have been made mainly in recent years, and this is because of the government's instigation in connection with the ASF. In view of this, they have returned even less than investments in poultry and minks. The mink used to be a very profitable production, while in the case of cattle it is barely profitable and here, when it comes to compensation, they will be really large. Therefore, I think that the government's agreement to go a little further, to extend it to ritual slaughter of cattle, would lead to the full acceptance of this law by the High House and we would not have to vote on the motion for the Senate to reject it. And, Minister, I would like to raise another point because the senators are limited in time, and I would no longer like to speak freely because I want to respect the senators who are attending a sitting, although I could say so. I would like you to refer to the ban on ritual slaughter in Poland between 2012 and 2013 and recall that situation and the financial consequences for agriculture. There is a ruling by the Constitutional Tribunal on this matter, which is very important, some have already mentioned it, but I think it would be good to highlight this situation and to realise why today we are also calling for the slaughter of cattle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u218	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u219	Thank you. Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as part of the answer... In fact, in your long speech, you only asked one question at the end, and I'll talk to him as soon as I can. As part of my introduction, I would just like to say that your indication that I should be the liberal face of this project... I don't know whether to take them as a compliment or as a charge. Mr. Senator, I'm not liberal, I'm not primitive, I'm not strict. I present the position of the government, which is very clear. And please accept these explanations. Senator, as far as your questions are concerned, you were referring to the situation between 2012 and 2013 and the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. In fact, it can be said that it is not justified to limit these time frames. Until 2013. This situation is irregular from a legal point of view, the legal system continues to this day, and this regulation is speaking more as a lawyer than as a representative of the Council of Ministers. In fact, the Supreme Chamber is going to execute and ensure the compatibility of the Animal Protection Act with the Polish Constitution, as stated by the Constitutional Tribunal in 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u220	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Rafał Ambrozik in remote mode. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Silence...]] Are you Senator Rafał? Ambrose can you hear me? He can't hear. Then you're Senator Magdalena Kochan and you're the Senator at a later date.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u221	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister Buda persuaded us just now, probably leaving the ministerial briefcase somewhere in the closet or in the desk for the time of work on the bill and returning to the parliamentary work, because he acted here as a representative of the parliamentary bill's applicants, that 11 hours of work in the Sejm was enough to prepare a good bill. The Minister who told us, presenting the government's position that this is a good bill Yesterday I heard such positive opinions here during the deliberations of the Legislative Committee today saying that it is not necessarily so good and that amendments are necessary. Judging by the Prime Minister's conference yesterday, we can see that these amendments are far-reaching. My question is this: did the government, when it had a positive opinion on the provisions of this law, have the same time as the Members to say that it was a good law, changed its mind, that is, enough time to change your mind, or did you change your approach to the provisions of this law, what is happening on the streets and in the farming community? Why does the government propose its amendments not in the place where it has a majority, i.e. in the Seym, but in the place where the senators are sitting mostly with a democratic majority? [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u222	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u223	Senator, the suggestion made in your last question surprised me very much, and I can't agree with her. I'd like to protest because you're suggesting Whatever it is you're trying to understand. It is said that there is a democratic majority in the upper chamber and that the situation in the lower chamber is diametrically different, i.e. we would not be dealing with a democratic... [[I'm not suggesting that, Minister.]] I express my deep and absolute opposition to this suggestion, I will never agree with this suggestion. The political situation in the Lower House and the Upper House is the case of the sovereign will of voters expressed in elections. And going back to the point, Senator, I've already talked about this in answer to Senator Jackowski's question. The government's position is still the same: the government supports the solution in the law. The Government also supports the amendments tabled by Mr Pęk, which are agreed with the Government and are based on the recommendation of the President of the Council of Ministers. Please understand the role of the government in this legislative process. The government is not the author of these records, the government has adapted to the mode and pace of work in the lower chamber, in the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The government has prepared a position. The government participated in this procedure on the right of its own. The government did not question and the government properly understood the pace and intensity of the work related to this law, just as the government is now in the right manner and adequately presenting its recommendations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u224	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u225	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Speaking of this law, the Member has already said that the number of mink and other fur animals is still falling and that this is a rather radical decline in recent years. Did you not therefore consider such a solution in the government in order to bring these farms to an end naturally over the next few years and thus not expose the state budget to large compensations? Has this case been analyzed in this regard? Second thing, another problem. Under the influence of the protests of farmers, breeders, processors, parts of the public opinion, also senators, the government changed its mind about ritual slaughter, recognising that ritual slaughter of poultry is acceptable in Poland and that ritual slaughter of other animals, other vertebrates, is unacceptable. What does that tell you? Do you recognize that there are two categories of ritual slaughter, one better, the other worse, or is there something else underneath this proposal that you presented to the Prime Minister? And another problem. Indemnities. Is today, in a pandemic situation, a decline in the revenue of the state budget, when the deficit of the state budget for this year is, according to the information provided by the Minister of Finance, PLN 109 billion, and next year it is to be little smaller, the state budget in the opinion of the government can afford to pay substantial, billion-dollar compensations, as a result, if they were to be fair and fair? Can we all afford the state budget to pay these compensations? And the last problem, which I have also pointed out to the rapporteur, is the issue of the disposal of post-mortem waste. Did you analyze this problem in the government so that there were no consequences for the troublesome, difficult for producers, poultry processors and other animals so that these matters could be dealt with immediately? Because that's the intention of this bill, that everything should just be dealt with right away. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u226	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! First question. As far as I understand your statement correctly, you agree with the statement that the fur-breeding industry is an end-of-the-line industry and... [[That is what the Member said.]] That's right. I have not read any antagonism about this statement by the Member in your statement. I would therefore like to say that these solutions, which the government proposes to introduce in the law, also allow this process to end in a civilised form, taking into account the rights of these entrepreneurs. Well, we're talking about compensation, compensation, and that's civilization of this natural process of decline and collapse of this industry. About... [[So you didn't assume that the industry would naturally expire?]] I repeat: we assume that this law, the solutions contained therein, will speed up the natural process, facilitate it and consummate the rights of entrepreneurs in this industry. As for the issue of ritual slaughter, poultry, beef, cattle... Mr Senator, that is the fact that the government recommends such an amendment, that is, as I have said, the result of listening to the voices that flowed in this matter from different backgrounds, especially from the agricultural environment. There is also understanding for a hierarchy also within the framework of spinal systematics. Please accept such explanations. As far as compensation costs are concerned, Senator, it's from the declaration of the Ministry of Agriculture. Because it is his job to prepare detailed arrangements for the amount and method of payment of these compensations It follows that adequate resources will be developed for the implementation of this provision. This is the task of the Ministry of Agriculture, this task will be enforced from this Ministry. The last point is to dispose of it. Unfortunately, I must avoid the specific answer to these questions. In agreement with the Ministry of Agriculture, we will prepare a written reply to the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u227	The senator wants to ask, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u228	Well, the written answer... I'm very glad, but this answer is needed today, when we are working on this bill. This is one of the elements on which we, the senators, will make decisions. This is a very important issue, but of course I accept this solution. I'll get your answer in writing, okay. Financial issues are very important in this matter. I hope that you have assessed the cost of implementing this law, because today, as I said, we are in a dramatic budgetary position. This is without doubt because the 109 billion PLN deficit this year is the money that will have to be repaid. The Minister says the Minister of Agriculture is gonna get that money somewhere. The Minister will not settle for anything, because it is the money that must be included in the budget of the State, which must be entered in the appropriate department and then adopted by the Sejm and the Senate. So the question is: how do you estimate the cost of this whole operation, and how will it be financed? Well, that's a key question, because every law must be accompanied by calculations showing the costs of implementing it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u229	Mr. Senator, the government that I have the honour to represent, the Government of Law and Justice, the Government of the United Right, has introduced into Polish political life a certain, I would say, new standard. Well, we have a habit. In fact, it's been going on for 5 years now to keep all the declarations we make. So trust us on this, too. These measures will be taken, please wait for detailed solutions from the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u230	Senator, let me just clarify: do you expect this reply in writing? [[No, I don't expect anything.]] No? Good. [[The question of disposal is yes, but these budget issues... you're promising something here, but that's not the point. The budget is concrete money, concrete gold.]] Mr. Senator, let's not run polemics here right now. You're asking Senator Benjamin Godula. [[Godyla.]] Godyla. I'm so sorry, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u231	It's okay. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the question I've prepared has already been asked by Klein. I also wanted to learn about these compensations, about the compensations, about their amount, but you have already partially responded. Well, we don't exactly know these numbers. I'm going to ask a very brief question about this ritual slaughter. It is known that only beef was left in the bill, only cattle were left, because the poultry would be released from it. Why are you giving such a short period of time? Just a year to introduce this? Even Mr Chróścikowski, chairman of the agricultural committee, said that the entire cycle of cattle production lasts three years. Well, I can smell the village, Minister, because I live in it, and I have farmers in my neighborhood. It's not that simple, it can't be eliminated within a year. I know farmers don't expect your money. They don't want to be disturbed. There's really nothing you can do for a year, and that's why it's worth thinking about. If you want to go this far and stop this ritual slaughter, leave it for national purposes only, then you need to extend the transition period. Thank you. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: May I, Mr Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u232	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u233	Senator, Mr Buda, when representing the applicants for the bill, spoke very widely here about the fact that the broad scale of this meat production through ritual slaughter, through the use of the methods of this slaughter, is not as important as it has been granted. So in this situation, I, not wanting to repeat all of this argument, the percentages and directions of this export, can say that after examining the amendment that you presented to the senator, Marshal Marek Pęk, we find that the annual period of vacathio legis of this transitional provision is appropriate and feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u234	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Artur Dunin in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u235	Hello, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a few questions for you. One: do we know the income from minks, furs to the state budget? If so, please also say, are the operators of such production exempt from the levy because it is an agricultural activity, they are simply farmers? What kind of taxes do they pay in this title? And do you have information, data... Because most of this production is sent to the West, beyond the borders of the country. How much VAT refunds are made? 'Cause I think these are pretty important issues. And now one more question. I know that you are not the authors of this bill as a government. But aren't you afraid, as a government, that at the time of certain amendments, there will be associations that will continue to function and abuse animals in such a way that they will make money from local governments for making shelters? Those are questions for starters. If the Minister can answer, I would be very grateful. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u236	That's right, Mr. Senator. This amount has already been paid in respect of revenue to the State budget for the production of fur animals from the economic activity relating to that production. This amount was already falling, I remember exactly that Mrs Bakerska spoke about it. I would like to point out that this amount is PLN 10 million 948 000 68 and EUR 73 for PIT. With respect to CIT and VAT, these are negative amounts, because, of course, remember, these are special agricultural production departments, and I refer here to your second question. And they're taxed on special preferential terms. And as far as hostels are concerned, here, in fact, Mr. Senator, these are matters that I have already argued with by discussing individual amendments at the committee meetings of both Senate committees. The point is that the provisions of the original submission provide for such instruments for resorts supervising the activity in question, that the verification of the activities of operators in the form of animal shelters should be carried out smoothly and the rules governing the running of these shelters should thus be quite rigorously respected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u237	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Deputy Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Paweł Szrot: Thank you, Mr Marshal.]] I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Kazimierz Kleina. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Janusz Błucherz was the first to speak. You're welcome, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, can you get him on the spot?]] As you wish, he may be from the podium, and from a place where the senator will be more comfortable.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u238	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Once again from this place we pay attention to the mode and method of proceding laws, which go to the upper chamber from the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. This is also not better in the case of the Act on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and some other laws discussed today. There was a rush again, the committee's night work, without hearing the arguments of the stakeholders. In turn, the laws themselves concern so many laws relating to the protection of animals that it is difficult to accept those provisions in a substantive and fully rational manner or to make amendments which will not destroy this legal act and other substantively related acts. Assuming that we will not vote on the proposal or that we will oppose the proposal to reject this law in its entirety I do not know what the High House will do yet, but it is necessary to seriously examine the entire bill for the implementation of such amendments, which will make this legal act acceptable, not only by the Senate majority, but also by the Polish Parliament and the President, and by many entities that are keenly interested in this law. As part of the work of the Senate committees, I have tabled a number of amendments tabled in the framework of a public hearing organised by the President of the Polish Senate Legislative Commission, as well as by the legislators of the Polish Senate Legislative Office. I must point out that after an in-depth analysis of the statutory provisions concerning, among others, the conduct of the proceedings. animal shelters, but also information that come to me and to the senators during today's discussion, I will modify some of the amendments that have already been tabled in this area, as it is only the joint examination of some records that reveals what they will be struggling with, for example. municipalities after the proposed legal changes. Problems include: exclusion in the law of the possibility for entrepreneurs to run shelters or chip dogs and cats admitted to hostels. I understand that such amendments have already been tabled during the deliberations, but I do not know what will happen to them after the votes. However, I would like to point out that as far as the number of operators running shelters is concerned, there were 208 shelters for homeless animals in Poland on the basis of the 2017 Animal Protection Office report. Of these hostels managed by municipal units, communal companies were 78, communal hostels run by businessmen 28, communal hostels run by non-governmental organizations 39. There were 55 entrepreneurs running their own hostels and there were 24 NGOs running their own hostels. The question should be asked whether preventing entrepreneurs from running urban shelters or their own will improve the fate of homeless animals. Entrepreneur's hostels receive about 18 thousand animals, which puts them in position in Poland just after the communal hostels, which will receive about 21 thousand animals. City hostels run by entrepreneurs received about 3,000 dogs and cats. What's important here is the mortality rate, which is the number of animals lost, euthanasia and dead. It is established, in accordance with data also developed by the Animal Protection Office of 2017, at the level of: communal hostels , municipal managed by non-governmental organisations 9% , communal managed by entrepreneurs 10%. Thus, comparing animal mortality rates, it should be concluded that the standards of municipal shelters managed by municipal units, NGOs and entrepreneurs are similar to those of hostels managed or run by NGOs. The managing entrepreneur on behalf of the municipality of its hostel is able to do so while maintaining high standards. I believe that here is the problem of supervising these hostels, but above all the municipalities. The mayor, the president, is responsible for this, and therefore may, even through public procurement projects, order a form of hostel operation that will certainly be responsible for everyone in this regard. The chip problem has already been taken up here, so I'll skip it. When discussing the amendment of the Animal Protection Act, it is impossible not to refer to the provisions prohibiting ritual slaughter of bovine animals, poultry, sheep, goats or fur animals. There has already been a discussion here today, especially in the course of asking questions. In my speech, I will not enter into a discussion about which type of slaughter is more humane. I have read many articles, listened to many experts, and what I can say for sure is that the opinions are still divided. I am, or maybe I better say that I was a scientist for several years at the Polish Academy of Sciences, and what I say is that science teaches humility. No conclusions are drawn from the results of one experiment and from many experiences. Today, reading articles from 2004 or 2010. When everything changes around us, we cannot base our statements on just one type of article. I will confirm once again that the sentences are still divided. Most people love animals, and it would be best not to kill them at all, but also not to eat them. However, I will leave such considerations and say that by introducing such far-reaching legal regulations, it is impossible not to analyse the economic aspects resulting from this. In the case of poultry business... It should be noted that Polish poultry is the leader in the European Union, we are the largest producer and exporter among the countries of the Union. The value of exports in 2019 amounted to PLN 12.6 billion, of which about 40% was meat from slaughter without stunning. Building such a position required huge financial and management expenditure by farmers and entrepreneurs. Currently, the value of exports to the Halal markets is more than EUR 5 billion per year. The industry employs many employees and cooperates with many co-operatives. Manufacturer of poultry buys feed cereals from farmers producing exclusively vegetable commodity production. In the event of the entry into force of the ban on religious slaughter There will be at least 30% reduction in employment, and for some establishments it may exceed up to 70%. Many establishments specialized in the slaughter of halal will cease to function at all, newly built facilities will close down their business. The banking sector will also have problems, which financed the construction of large poultry companies and accompanying poultry farms. It is worth noting that Poland has effectively expelled poultry imported from Brazil from the European market. Ukraine is preparing to enter our place in the Halal markets, which already uses legal gaps in tariffs. Ukrainian companies invest very strongly in this sector and are just waiting for the solution that is in the proposed law. The likelihood that American entrepreneurs will enter the Polish market is also very high, as evidenced by the ongoing buy-out of certain poultry establishments. As far as the Halal beef and kosher market is concerned, Poland is a significant producer of beef on a European Union scale. The value of exports, as I mentioned earlier, amounts to PLN 6.7 billion, which corresponds to almost 5% of Polish exports of agri-food products, of which the value of religious slaughter is the amount of more than PLN 2.2 billion. Due to the limited domestic market, some companies export 80% raw material. A significant part of the production, worth around EUR 2.1 billion, is the production exported to the hakal and kosher market. It is worth mentioning here that Polish beef is mainly... [[Mr. Senator, I'm very sorry, but time...]] Please? [[It's been ten minutes, so go ahead.]] Just a minute, Mr. Marshal. ... Halal to Western European consumers, whose number is growing for demographic and political reasons. Let us not be illusions that Polish beef in the form of steak is bought by Frenchmen or Germans. It is bought in processed form mainly by consumers with Muslim roots. I'm gonna skip some issues, but I'm gonna tell you about the company I mentioned today, working in Wielkopolska. It is a company that employs 1 000 600 people, working with many farmers and cattle farmers We are talking about about about 350 thousand bovine animals and a total of 18 thousand different suppliers, not only bovine animals but also feed. Many people may lose their jobs, which will have particularly adverse consequences in a pandemic era. We can't, sorry for the expression, send these entrepreneurs and people away. We need to put in place all these compensation and compensation arrangements. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u239	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jan Filip Libicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u240	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is necessary to start with what unfortunately has been the sad habit of the lower chamber for 5 years and in general the sad habit of the majority, which has ruled for 5 years in Poland. I'm talking about the way this bill went through the Sejm: without discussion, in a mess, by mistake, within 11 hours of the agricultural committee's deliberations. It is worth noting here that proceding in the Senate, also thanks to our requests, the Polish Coalition PSL, or maybe especially thanks to our requests, looks different. We have used almost the entire 30-day period to discuss this law, and we are dealing with a paradox. Thanks to the fact that we demanded that the 30-day deadline for the bill be respected, it was not only that at the meeting of the Legislative Commission we practically held a public hearing, but also that the Law and Justice allowed for amendments to be tabled. The honourable Marshal Pęk, who so graciously gave me the floor, had the opportunity to make his amendments. Mr Morawiecki had the opportunity to make some amendments yesterday and to announce some as a new legislative initiative by the rulers. This was due to the fact that the discussion in the Senate on the bill lasted 30 days. I wonder what we would have looked like if the Senate had passed this bill in the same way as in the Seym. It's a good thing we didn't. Next line. Let us be very clear that many of the amendments that the Prime Minister has announced as amendments to the Law and Justice or as a separate legislative initiative are amendments that go in the right direction. These are the amendments that partially fill in what we are talking about in the Coalition Poland PSL, we've been talking for a long time. What's more I've already talked about it today. After all, because many Members of the Law and Justice had the same position, these Members were suspended. Mr Ardanowski, because he had such a position, lost his position as Minister of Agriculture. So since it is that President Kaczyński, first for weeks, demands that this law be passed without amendments, and then last week, Prime Minister I understand that with the consent of President Kaczyński It makes amendments, let's be very clear: unfortunately, there is a disgrace to the government camp. Because first you threaten your own senators with letters, pointing out that they are to pass the bill without amendments, and then make amendments that fundamentally and substantially change it. We must therefore be clear: it is not President Kaczyński, it is only those suspended Members and Minister Ardanowski who were right about this law. And if someone has civil courage, then they should be very clear about it, communicating. The question of different absurdities in this bill. I'm gonna let me get two. The first absurdity, which was the subject of our discussion yesterday at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, is that according to the provisions of this law, how it was prepared by its creators, it will not be possible to purchase a non-racial dog online in Poland. Well, I understand that there is a tendency in the world today to regulate everything... But do we really need to regulate whether the Poles want to or do not want to, or maybe they can, or maybe they can buy a non-racial dog online? The second example is an example of this already famous six-metre chain. After all, during the discussion at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, dog farmers made it very clear: what will happen when a dog weighs 15 kg and a six-metre chain weighs 8 kg? It's not gonna make life easier for this animal, it's gonna make life harder for this animal. And these are just two of those flavors that I pulled out of this whole bill and that show how ridiculous this bill is. Of course, we have our fundamental amendments. If this bill weren't gonna work... Here I thank the agricultural committee, in which the majority have the Senators of the PiS, that she has voted to reject this law, to reject this scumbag. I hereby support and support all those who voted against this law in the agricultural committee. I thank them very much for this, and I thank them also for their courage. However, if it turns out that this cannot be rejected, our amendments are clear on this issue: the elimination of ritual slaughter, the 10-year vacathio legis for fur-breeders and so-called. labour and peas inspections, which must be accompanied by a veterinary inspection. Because it can't be a very noble group, but it can't know the substance of young people. It is outrageous that my colleague, Senator Bober, who runs a large farm in which he raises dairy cattle and has expanded them ten times since the 1980s when he inherited them from his parents... And now a group of young enthusiasts, I'm not saying that the base is going to enter the farm and dictate to it how He's supposed to hide those cattle that he's been living for 35 years? This is absolutely absurd, and you can't agree to that. Senator Bober will make appropriate adjustments, and I'm just signaling them here, supporting a motion for rejection. And I can only regret and regret that, as a loyal member of the Senate majority, these amendments I was talking about yesterday, unfortunately, at the meeting of the Legislative Commission, did not find any recognition. This is sad for us. I am a man with a good memory. I'm gonna let this incident of yesterday keep not so much in grateful memory as in ungrateful memory. To sum up, I fully support the agricultural committee's motion to reject this law. I do not claim that she did not have good records, but if you want to introduce such a law, it is necessary to introduce such laws calmly and after extensive consultation. And I am glad that in the Senate there is a different majority than in the Seym, which shows that we may differ, but the method of proceding must always be the same, must be civilized and must be prudent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u241	Thank you very much, Senator. I only said one word ad vocem, because you said in the beginning that I, among others. I had the opportunity to make amendments. So I'm just going to tell you that your colleague, Senator Bober, at the agriculture committee meeting yesterday, did everything that I couldn't make these amendments. Later, only after the legislative council, it turned out that this had been done in a non-regular manner and then I made these compromise amendments. So this compromise in the Senate is different. [[I understand, but I was just talking about this, Mr. Marshal, that if we were to proceed at the same pace as in the Seym, you certainly wouldn't have the opportunity. Thank you very much.]] Thank you. Senator Władysław Komarnicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u242	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'm glad we're proceeding on this bill... although I really should call it what you just called it, Senator Libicki, and say, over this gnome. And I deeply believe that it will bring a real dimension in the form of, of course, improving the fate of animals. At the same time, as a person from the economy, I have always stressed here, and I will stress that we must also improve the fate of animals while also securing farmers, entrepreneurs or local government units, as Senator Błucherz said in very detail. They will lose their income in the form of taxes paid by companies engaged in this type of industry, such as. mink farms. In my constituency there are dozens of them, in the Lubuskie province there are 21 fur farms, and in all Poland there are 880. We're one of the world's leaders in fur production. It is one of the departments of the national economy, which is doing well and generating profits. I believe and stress that this is a big mistake of the initiators of this bill, and as Senator Libicki said, this gnith. The mistake is that those who propose this did not decide to open up a conversation about compensation, about how to compensate people for their losses, the fact that they often lost their lives, that they were in debt, they often took high loans to build these farms. For them, Dear Senators, it's a matter of survival. Imagine the fact that you've been owners of a successful company for about 20 years, and suddenly there's this rubble that orders us to shut this business down. I have a habit of meeting those who are directly concerned before the High House on the subject of the bill. I've also met with these owners, and I've spoken to them several times. I'm telling you, these are very often family businesses where the second generation of these breeders is already working. That's noteworthy. They invested millions of euros in their farms. The equipment needed to run a fur company is very expensive, it comes from Denmark. Another important issue is the people who work there. For example, there are 30 people working on one of the farms in my district, but there are already 90 in the season. These people will also be deprived of the source of income. I do not understand why we have not discussed how we could compensate for the losses that will arise here. Maybe we should think about it and put together a concrete action plan that will be drawn up for several years, as it is practiced in normal countries. For example, in the Netherlands, the vacathio legis lasted 10 years and the compensation paid by that country amounted to EUR 400 per female. Czech Republic EUR 570 per female, Norway EUR 1000 per female. I have huge doubts that our country can afford to close this business today. Senator Kazimierz Klein was very specific about this in his questions. Especially in the face of the pandemic of Coronavirus, you cannot be sure how this will continue. And when it comes to the fact that you will have to pay compensation, you will mention my words, the government will say: we have no money, everything ate us a coronavirus. Well, it's a convenient lock for power today. If you want to create a really good law that protects animals, then you must also give money for it. There's no other way. Compensation for farmers, entrepreneurs and local authorities must be fair. The state cannot leave them to itself. The hand must be drawn not only to animals, but also to entrepreneurs. So for the welfare of animals, so for solutions that improve the life of animals in Poland, but not for lawlessness, because this rubble is an lawlessness, not for leaving people without help! Poultry is a well-developed industry in our country that employs tens of thousands of people. We are the largest exporter of chickens in Europe, and therefore a broad public consultation needs to be carried out to protect these jobs. The big branch of Polish agriculture is the export of beef and poultry, obtained in accordance with the rules of ritual slaughter. If we forbid our farmers from exporting such meat, they will be in huge trouble. Today we are one of the largest exporters in the Middle East. This is an export worth about PLN 7 billion. This is the value of Polish export of poultry and beef from ritual slaughter. I believe that the records on ritual slaughter must be absolutely rejected. The amendment of the Animal Protection Act entails a number of negative effects, the consequences of which will be felt not only by producers but also by consumers. Let me give you a few examples: losing your job for up to 50% people employed in the meat industry; significant, consumer-driven increases in meat prices; reduction in the feed market as a result of lower demand for feed and shrinkage in the meat production sector; increase in operating costs for poultry companies as a result of the ban on fur animal farming and the need to dispose of production waste in incineration plants. I personally believe that this law is poorly prepared and should be rejected in its entirety. I think if it were done as it was done a few years ago when we were sitting here, in this room over the IPN Act, when they tossed the foot of America and Israel, and we quickly retreated... Now they're not gonna stomp, because they're gonna take our place. I'm not gonna talk about the public consultation here because they were just gone. And at the end of the day... Abrupt removal of business opportunities is a violation of fundamental property rights and the rights of their employees. Such action is an expression of contempt for the rule of law, for people. It's a flagship example of how laws shouldn't be made. I'm just sorry. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jacek Bury will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u244	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I wish there were so many of us in this room, I hope everyone works in the clowns. I've been a senator for a year, but I'm not a politician, I'm an entrepreneur. There are over 600 people working in my companies. I know what it's like to work every day to support your family. I also respect farmers because they work the same way. Like I said, I've been here for a year and I'm amazed at the political war and the games for the people. That's what we do in parliament, in the Seym and in the Senate. And now I'm moving on to this bill. It is said that this bill was made because Jarosław Kaczyński loves animals. I will say this: Jarosław Kaczyński does not love animals, Jarosław Kaczyński uses animals, uses people and their emotions to achieve political goals. In the Seym, this law was pushed through with its knee in violation of all laws. This is not about caring about the welfare of animals or about the people who raise these animals or care about the animals. The Sejm sent us a bubel, a big bubel made in Novgorodka. Because let's not kid ourselves: that bill was accepted there and sent to us from there. Let me put it this way: Jarosław Kaczyński doesn't love animals because that's not how you do animal rights. He doesn't love people either. The question is, does he love anyone? But let's leave it at that. So we've got a booze. And I want to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for agreeing with our opinion. The Prime Minister admitted yesterday that this bill came out of the Sejm in defective form and was suitable for reconstruction. But why didn't they do it in the Seym? It's really gotta be done. 2, maybe even 3 separate laws, but solidly, work them with concern for animals and with concern for people. He is also a proponent of reducing the suffering of animals where it is not necessary. We should, especially since these are world trends, we should actually put out a mink farm, we should take care of animals in circuses, etc. But let's not forget people. The five animals in the agricultural part is de facto the ritual slaughter of Polish agriculture. Why? It's made for political purposes, for political performances. As part of the political struggle, we destroy the Polish village. In Poland at the moment we have huge problems. We have a problem with health care in covida, we have a public finance crisis and huge government debt, we have an economic crisis, we have problems in education, in education, we have problems with smog and climate change, with mining, energy. And what does the PiS power offer us in the political spectacle after winning elections, when it should theoretically be dealing with governance, to improve the lives of Poles? They started off with a raise for politicians, and there was a show, and everyone was excited. And people have health problems, getting into a doctor... But let's keep going from the show. It was quiet, so, come on, a government reconstruction performance, who, whether Ziobro or Morawiecki will win, whether Kaczyński will make them agree, whether Kaczyński will enter the government or not... What does it matter to a man who's in a hospital and can't get the right help? What does it matter to people who lose their jobs? And now, because we have to take something back to society, we have a new show called "The Bible." animal care, false animal care. As part of such a show, Poles already had a few things. We had refugees, we had a few social and professional groups humiliated along the way, e.g. people with disabilities, residents, teachers... And now farmers need to be sacrificed. For a political show. Who's next? How about private media? How about an entrepreneur? People working abroad who need to be taxed? Agriculture is one of the most Polish productions. The slaughter of breeders will lead to collapse in all agriculture. Beef and poultry will dance in the coming months, but after a year they will go very much, because meat will have to be imported from abroad. Do citizens no longer suffer from very high prices today? Don't we have a grocery store? Do you, dear Senators, want our citizens to pay even more? Are these prices too low? Dear Senators, for the sake of political war, do you want to dedicate your Polish economy and make it expensive in shops? And I'm gonna ask you this... On this political side of our Senate hall, we say that we are behind entrepreneurs, on this side, on the side of the PiS, you say that you are patriots, and you often carry white-red flags in your flaps. Would you like to ask this and this web page to murder Polish entrepreneurship together? Polish entrepreneurship. Where's the sense? Where is the Polish state right? These laws are needed as much as possible, they are needed, you have to take care of animals, but these must be thought out laws, with concern for people and animal welfare. We've got to work on that. But what we have right now is a piece of shit. Please, let's just come to our senses. Enough political hatred, enough political struggle, because soon your political war will lead on the ruins of the Polish economy and throw yourself with stones, because there will be so much left of our economy. I want to remind you that you have vowed to protect the sovereignty of your homeland and the welfare of your citizens. Are we really fulfilling our vows with this bill? Does this law care about the sovereignty of Poland and the welfare of citizens? And finally, the Senators: let's be smart. Be statesmen, not puppets in the hands of party presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u246	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would take the voice of my previous speaker as an appeal to the opposition senators who have the majority in the Senate, so I understand that the senator has encouraged us to reject this bill, and mostly our colleagues from the Civic Platform. [[Voice from the room: Yes...]] Yeah, 'cause I hope... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because this motion, as I understand it, is going to be the first vote in this block of votes to be voted on. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I think that I will not be more widely divorced about the substantive issues of this law, because much information has already been presented in these debates. I would like to draw attention to the fact that I am very concerned about the mode and way of working on this law, because such an important law, a law that regulates social, economic, civilizational, worldview issues, and, in some ways, has a significant impact on public and political life in the country, should be followed with caution, in accordance with procedures, consultations and everything that has been mentioned here. First of all, I would like to point out that this law is in clear and obvious contradiction with the Law and Justice programme, at least the one that was in the elections in 2015 and 2019. There was no mention of the ban on ritual slaughter, of the restrictions that farmers would encounter, at all. On the contrary, Law and Justice... And rightly, I was very supportive of it, I have been a senator of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice for 9 years and I have supported it, I represent the agricultural district, the Ciechan subregion in the Senate, and I have always thought that this programme was as right as possible. Few of this, this programme met with understanding in agricultural, peri-agricultural, rural, small-town and law and justice environments thanks to these voters gained the opportunity to rule in Poland, and the President won the presidential election. And now I am. I've got angry farmers coming to my office, pitied producers, pitied all kinds of entrepreneurs, and they say, "What are you doing?" What are you doing with this bill? Why all of a sudden? Why this way? Unfortunately, maybe against the intentions of the applicants, it was perceived as a hit in the Polish village. That's how it was taken. And it is not only among those who, directly as a result of this law, may lose their livelihoods, but also through the entire agricultural environment. Why? I will say, for a very simple reason: because the dignity of the Polish farmer has been violated, he has been presented as a murderer, as a person who does not respect animals and is not a good person, because good people support this law and bad people The farmers are guessed to be They don't support her. Unfortunately, dignity issues, identity issues are very important, and these cases of trauma in agricultural environments will be left for longer. As far as the economic impact is concerned, I hope that we can make this right. But this harm that was done to people when society was divided into the light inhabitants of large cities, who use the so-called. high ethical standards, and farmers who are bad, this is the worst thing that has been done to farmers by this law. All the more so because it beats the ethos that we have known in Poland for generations, connected with the slogan of life and weapons, which means that if necessary they are soldiers and stand up for their homeland, and every day they work in sweat so that we have bread. And this thread, and it has not yet appeared in this debate, in my opinion it is very important. Someone who doesn't know the village, who doesn't know the farmers, just doesn't understand it, and that's why he's surprised, he doesn't know why these protests, why these thousands of people on the streets of Warsaw today. That's where it's coming from. And it won't be like that. As we hear in the declarations That on one protest It's gonna end. This bill will still be in the Seym, and yet the President will think about it, and it may be such a situation that for a good few weeks, in an extreme case maybe even for two months, it will be one of the main topics of public debate in Poland. High Izbo, we have three layers in this bill. There is an economic layer: it is a clear weakening of the Polish economy, or at least agriculture in some segment of it. And agriculture, as we know, are connected vessels. Someone makes feed, somebody provides transportation, somebody leases agricultural machinery, somebody delivers equipment, a cooperative bank borrows it, somebody has a feed mixer... That's the whole chain of dependence. And you have to know about agriculture and know that if you take a few bricks out of the wall, it's not like it's not going to be without affecting the whole wall. So the economic impact is high. We are weakening the potential of the Polish economy, but we are strengthening the potential of the German, Danish, Finnish, Ukrainian, Russian paradoxically, because it can also gain from it, Czech and Slovak. Whether this is a deliberate action in times of pandemic, economic crisis, to weaken the potential of the Polish economy - That's all I'm saying. In order to attract to the Polish country quite enigmatic and blanquet, as so far proposed by the government, the obligation to pay compensation is not known under what rules, so to charge the taxpayer in total the costs of the liquidation of this agricultural industry, which had export capacity, which brought income to the Polish state, which gave thousands of farms, producers the opportunity to work? And it's all for the sake of well-being. Of course, well-being is an important issue and there is also a certain civilization criterion, but in order to implement such a law, this must be done in consultation, after consultation, after discussions, on a basis, in my opinion, of a government project in which inter-ministerial consultations are held, in the presence and in the context of discussions with stakeholders, and all of them. And protectors of animals, farmers, producers, etc. High Izbo, we have what we have. These amendments, which have been tabled or announced, are basically not changing much. Of course, I'm glad they're here. And I am glad that we have left this dogmatism, because first I heard that this bill is brilliant, perfect, that whoever opposes the bill is a proponent of cruel killing of animals. So it was presented to the public propaganda and ideologically. There was no deeper reflection. Thus, in the public opinion, this entire bill is a discussion about the breeding of fur animals, and this is the margin of this law. And about that, there's a consensus between us. No one is in favour of continuing this production forcefully, but if it is to be extinguished, it must be done on civilized terms. There are experiences from other countries: long transition periods, compensation, etc. etc. That's what I'm talking about. And now I'm going to refer to the amendments. The poultry has been turned off here. Why? Because it has certainly been counted that poultry is by far a larger part of this export part and simply the government is financially not paying off its obligations for lost benefits in the production of poultry. So this is where economical calculations play a role, not ethical ones. 'Cause she's just leaving... Hard numbers speak here. Now, about the transition periods... Well, what's this change that says the bill will come in January 1, 2022, which is practically a year from now? After all, before the bill is signed, before it appears in the Polish Monitor, before, let's assume, it will pass this whole cycle related to it, which is also not so sure... So what's a year? That's not enough. The cycle in agriculture lasts much longer. That's what I was talking about. These should be much longer transition periods. Moreover, the lack of statutory mechanisms for payment of these compensations is, I believe, pyramidal damage. The government says he's working on it now, and for a month or a half a month he said that there you go, it's an excellent bill, and he hasn't worked on it. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is ridiculous. We're not talking about some random little act. We are talking about a law that concerns hundreds of thousands of people and which concerns billions of quotas, so this is a very serious matter, and a certain ethos, which in Polish tradition is important, the issue of agriculture, production, etc. etc. Finally, the third issue concerns the inspection to be carried out. Why create more offices, directors, cars, stools, structures, since there is a Veterinary Inspection, which perhaps should be, although I believe that this should be the way to fund, increase its competence and in this way actually introduce better supervision of the welfare of animals that are kept for farming purposes. And it could be achieved peacefully. You could sit at the table. You could discuss it, you could talk about it, but you chose a confrontation model, you didn't need it. And now we have what we have on the streets of Warsaw. And I suppose it won't be over. High Izbo, to conclude, I want to say yes. I think it would be best if this law were to end its legislative process and if it were to seriously proceed to the examination of three or two I don't know. I don't discuss it here. Proposals for reasonable solutions in this respect. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u247	Thank you very much, Senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u248	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For the third time since I am a parliamentarians, I have been working on such a law for the last time in 2013, and I will admit that these arguments are repeated. I'm not a farmer, but I remember those arguments and I know them. But first of all, I want to say that this bill was prosecuted in the Sejm in a way that was derogatory to the rules of legislation. We're here. We were talking, I was talking too, when we tried to change the Constitutional Court Act in this way, about the Supreme Court, about the prosecutor's office... These cases have affected, it would seem, a few people. Yes? Because how many judges in the Constitutional Court, how many judges in the Supreme Court? It seemed to be marginal. But we said, "Wait, there'll be other cases like this." If we allow such process mode, within 20, 30 hours, important laws, systems... And now we have an important law on agriculture, economic divisions. Now, as you can see, this has affected more people, more Poles. And I think it's understood that this is not the way to proceed. This affects the vital interests of the whole large group of Poles, farmers, but not only farmers. After all, this concerns economic divisions, at least 2 economic divisions. In this law are contained in principle 3 of the Act. It's called animal protection, but as far as animal protection is concerned, that's just part of it. And as for this part, no one has any objections. Besides, these two other laws that are in it concern the ban on fur animals and the ban on religious slaughter. So that we should proceed over 3 different laws, because in every area there are really many problems, many specific problems. It is also important for me to ask why this law is being introduced. If these are ethical reasons, it would be necessary to ban religious slaughter at all. If the reason is economic, then there should be another approach here. I see here a confusion of order, because the legislator proposes a ban on religious slaughter, excluding religious slaughter for religious unions in Poland. And how is that different if only ethical issues are taken into account? But we consider other things. This is a mix-up of concepts. We decide to eliminate fur animals. It's okay. But you have to give full compensation or foresee a period of entry into force of a law that will reduce this compensation. The same is true of religious slaughter. If we want... Those who lose on this should receive full compensation, which is why we need to think about whether the economy can withstand it or not to extend the period of entry into force of this law so that its costs are lower. It's either that or it's that. What are the costs? Well, we have no respect for the cost of introducing this bill, we don't know that. Those who have made the bill, and also government representatives, do not say: "This will cost you so much, and that will be the loss, and that will be the loss we will have to cover." We don't know how much it's gonna be. We do not know, although this can be calculated when it comes to the breeding of fur animals, because so-called. The mothers are registered. More or less, we know how much we need to give, how much compensation we need to anticipate. Well, about 400 euros you need... There must be half a million of these mothers, I estimate. And that would be 400 euros. Together this is about PLN 850 million plus liquidation costs, costs of investments in cages, mechanisms that prepare karma, etc., etc. It seems to be a billion and a half. I'm calculating it, standing right here in front of you, which is the cost you could count. Costs of withdrawal from religious slaughter They'd be much bigger. It seems to me that this would be a much higher cost, which the budget will be very difficult to bear. Therefore, I propose an extension of the vacathio legis, I propose that there be 2 years of vacathio legis since the adoption of the law as regards the breeding of fur animals, here it can be shorter, because the costs are lower and up to 4 years of vacathio legis as regards the prohibition of religious slaughter. If we want to adopt this law, it is necessary to extend these periods. It is necessary that we allow our entrepreneurs to withdraw from these departments, the production sectors that are being wound up. In addition, the government should make a notification. If we are to receive any support from the Union in relation to the withdrawal from these departments, then it must be a notification. And this notification, the motion... It's gonna be a year. Then one more year will have to wait, which is in these two cases you need to extend this vacathio legis to also use EU money to support the state budget on this issue that will be ahead of us. My electorate is the electorate of a big city. If I think only of my electoral interests, then I should not say anything about that law, but as a senator I am obliged to think about all Poles, not to create problems for them, rather to bring them out of their problems and to offer them what is good for everyone, and if something is only good for some, then at least average it so that one can think about a situation that is right for the interests of everyone, also the interests of the Polish state. I therefore make amendments concerning the extension of the vacathio legis in two cases, in the case of fur animals up to 2 years after the entry into force of this law, and in the case of religious slaughter up to 4 years after the entry into force of that law. And finally, there's a reflection. Recently I was in the country at a meeting in the agricultural government, there I was surrounded by farmers and they said: Mr. Senator, save yourself, save yourself. And I said, "Okay, but who did you vote for?" But after a while, I was thinking that it doesn't matter who they voted for. It is important that we keep the interests of all citizens, including those who live with hard work on the ground.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u249	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Marcin Bosacki will speak:
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The matter of this bill is serious. The fate of animals, our smaller brothers, as Saint Francis said, is important. Whether they will be used in circuses, whether they will be kept trapped in human humanitarian conditions, whether they will be in pens, how often they will come out of these pens, whether they will be bred more civilized or less, all this is important, which deserves civilized, sensible regulation in Polish and European law. That's why it's worth leaning over this bill. But as often as in democracy, we have to weigh business and values. It's not what some people say, that those who are behind this bill are good people, and those who are against this bill are bad people. That's not true. In addition to animal welfare, consideration must also be given to the fate, the lives of thousands, the tens of thousands of people who work in these industries and who are to suffer the destruction of these industries. This bill was prepared for a mistake, sloppyly, without consultation, without an estimate of costs. It has been through as usual, unfortunately, for 5 years, during the reign of the PIS in the Sejm. It has been under investigation in the Lower House of Parliament for several hours. This is an outrage. This scandal results in the fact that we have received a legal act or a draft legal act for possible approval, in which we have absurd rules about the need to close business in 30 days. In this we have a practical lack of compensation for those who have to put an end to the work of life for 30 days or even for a year, sometimes built for decades, because these records that the Minister of Agriculture will determine compensation, of course mean nothing, as well as those promises-cacanks said yesterday by your Prime Minister do not mean anything. If that's what I'm pointing out From this House is to come the sensible right of this material defining, then these compensations must be clearly defined, it must be written, who should get it and for what. We are given an act for which the absolute condition for notification in the European Union has not been complied with, if at all this act is to work. The very sensible proposals that were made in the Sejm, for example, were not taken into account. about the need to chip, which would significantly reduce the homelessness of dogs and other animals, as well as the huge problem of reloading hostels. Yesterday, the Prime Minister appeared, who, in fact, after weeks of saying that this legislation is perfect, tells us that half of this legislation is suitable for basketball and should be completely replaced. It is a paradox at all that the prime minister of the government, ministers, special committees convened over the weekend are engaged in the repair of the legal act, the bill drawn up by this formation which governs, at a time when the whole effort of the government and government administration should be directed towards combating the huge economic and pandemic crisis. We live in times, in months, and unfortunately, I'm afraid In the years that will be called the next great crisis. And the fight against this crisis today should be directed at all the energy that governs the state. High Izbo, the law in such a sloppy form as the one which was pushed by Mr Kaczyński in the Sejm, the Senate of the Republic of Poland cannot accept. But the fate of this law shows something more, shows that the whole model ends, the whole way in which Mr Kaczyński and his supporters run the state for 5 years, the way that is sloppy and chaotic, that is, the management of the state at will. Mr Kaczyński, using this terrible policy model, has already lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u251	Please take the floor of Senator Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u252	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Many of my previous speakers have touched the essence of things. In fact, the very fact that the bill has been passed within 11 hours, so without public knowledge, by surprise, without the possibility of consulting, listening to the right, the opinion, should argue that this law should be rejected. Here a lot of people appealed to the House, and Senator Jackowski also appealed to the opposition, earlier there were appeals... Or perhaps we would simply accept such a rule, not just as a majority in the Senate, but as a Senate, as a whole, that in the future we simply reject laws that were passed in a few hours. The bill passed in a few hours is a violation of the foundations of legality and transparency, because in a modern society, something that is adopted in such a hasty, few hours is simply not the subject of public knowledge. If we are debating this law today, it is only in the name of responsibility, in the name of the fact that there are clearly good things there, such as the abolition of the suffering of animals, the suffering resulting from the need for luxury or the love of luxury, the abolition of the suffering of animals in the circus. These are things that should be settled long ago. A long time ago we should have removed this suffering from bad sources, fun, excess. It's absolutely obvious. Notabene, that's very good... I look at it with great understanding and identify with this growing sensitivity, enhanced sensitivity with regard to animal suffering, it very slowly penetrated into contemporary culture. Yeah, but it hates responsibility. Hurry, actually, legislative barbarism always leads to bad decisions, caused by lack of thought, and thought could result in good legislation and good decisions. It was only the Senate that consulted numerous opinions, analyses, and also budgetary and economic analyses. The analysis of Professors Elżanowski and Pisula was very interesting. Professor Elżanowski himself described her as a pro-animal, growing out of sensitivity in relation to animal suffering. The professors strongly recommended these regulations in the Scandinavian countries and Belgium, which try to reduce the suffering of animals killed for market purposes, both in this standard version and in the ritual version. These countries, which I have mentioned, Belgium and Scandinavia, have precise rules on stunning animals. They usually negotiate these procedures with religious communities. Well, of course, there wasn't enough time for us to think about that kind of regulation. Even we are unable to bring this type of regulation into legal order within a month. However, these countries do not hit the trade in kosher beef, beef that meets the needs of Muslim communities, do not eliminate trade, do not eliminate exports of this type of meat. Radical solutions can be decided, although I repeat once again, it would be good if we considered solutions so well described by Professors Elżanowski and Pisula, present in the Scandinavian countries and in Belgium. Well, but vacathio legis, especially in relation to companies that have a significant share in the export of Polish meat abroad... This export isn't gonna go away. This is European, global exports. He will not disappear because there is no European standard for abolishing trade in this type of meat. This is where competitors from other countries will enter. If this is to be decided by a majority of politicians, then the minimum condition for civilized regulation, respect for law, respect for economic operators, respect for their safety, care for compensation is a long vacathio legis. This is an absolutely necessary solution. Therefore, this amendment tabled by Marshal Borusewicz is the minimum of what should be laid down in this law-making process. Although I repeat, the very procedure for adopting this law in the Sejm should be in favour of rejecting it. And it would be good if, above the political divisions in the Senate, we agreed not only on this term of office but also on every next term that we did not agree to a few hours of barbaric legislation. Because this does not create responsible law respecting economic operators and citizens. But this minimum in the form of a long period of vacathio legis is absolutely necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u253	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Józef Łyczak will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u254	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Today we prove how much the High House, the Senate, is needed. Very needed to repair this evil, which so often comes out of the lower chamber, the Sejm. It is inspiring, ladies and gentlemen, that so many senators speak. Those who have specific knowledge of the subject discussed today, as well as those who do not. But it is encouraging that we appreciate agriculture, which is the basic branch of the national economy. Agriculture, that branch that gives us food security. It arouses my concern about the date of the bill's appearance for the procession. A deadline in special circumstances, when we have a very aggressive relapse of the pandemic of Coronavirus, which means we have enough problems... Poles are afraid whether we will win this fight against the epidemic, whether there will be enough places in hospitals, whether there will be enough beds, or whether there will be respirators. There's another case, another problem. If, God forbid, the law entered into with these records, so harmful that were in the Seym, then we would have ruined Polish agriculture to the end. Luckily it didn't. This multi-hour discussion in the Senate also proves... And the voices of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators who are heading in one direction: that it is best to reject this law in its entirety. I went to the farmers today, I talked. They are interested in the three main issues raised in this law, namely ritual slaughter, NGOs and possibly fur animals. As long as we found out yesterday, to our surprise, because the project is parliamentary... Now we have interference here, in a positive sense, from the government side. We've heard about compromise. I left today, I talked about this compromise. Everyone says, "What kind of compromise is it if we save some with this compromise and bury others with it?" And that basic agricultural production branch of cattle production... And agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, is a network of connected vessels. If this branch of production goes down, it's gonna rain another one. Right? They're gonna rain another one. The production of feed, the production of cereals, etc., can be calculated. I said... Besides, I didn't even have to ask. I spoke to the farmers today, I stress, on the street, not with the activists, those who came to see your marshal. Not with activists, because this is a completely different conversation. They... I don't know how many ladies and gentlemen the senators were at that meeting. They came here, to Warsaw, in this bad weather, rained on them, some didn't even have umbrellas. They didn't look, and I'm sorry about that term, for cool millionaires, because they just work hard. You can get to know the farmer right away, yes, you can get to know him right away. And they asked for one thing. You know what? So we don't bother them. To let them produce this good, perfect food, the best food in Europe. They're gonna be fine with everything else, because they're perfectly aware... And they laugh at what we've heard here today. There are no representatives of the government... [[There's a government representative.]] ...that we can handle the markets. That was 10 years ago, when the beef came through. Of course, the price drops were terrible to place. Not today. Today, in the case of these markets, the previous team in the Union has signed large contracts with countries such as Argentina, Brazil, and they are now filling Western Europe's markets with cheaper beef than ours. That's why we should stick to those markets where we sell meat obtained in ritual slaughter, because the price there is better, and it saves the basic branch... Therefore, let us listen to the voices of those who produce it, those who work very hard and follow their voices. We are left in this situation in which we have found ourselves, High Izbo, 2 exits: either acknowledge and accept those amendments which remove this evil written in this law. And then we will vote in favour of this law and if these amendments are rejected, we must oppose and vote against this law. I would also like to appeal from this place and thank you already to the President of the Republic for the fact that I believe it, as well as the peasants I have spoken to. He will do the right and the right thing, because he owes much to Polish peasants. And I believe that he will not allow a harmful bill to come out of here and apply. So that I hope that also the High Chamber And all that's pointing to it. He will take the position that those who feed us and, as we need it, will expect from us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u255	Thank you very much, Senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u256	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Left has been saying for many years that the protection of animals is at a very low level in Poland and that civilizational reasons determine that this protection of animals should increase. This law, at all, taking this issue and passing this law is a step in the right direction, because it is a step towards ending barbarism towards animals, ending animal torture Because the task of a modern civilized state should be to eliminate the suffering of animals, because they themselves are unable to defend themselves. They don't have a voice. We knew that our country had for many years turned a blind eye to the fact that animals were being held under criminal conditions and that no one had any control over it. We saw on TV, on the Internet movies, pictures of skinny animals Beastly treated, starving dogs on short chains preventing them from moving, with metal earrings stuck in their necks to blood; mink and fox farms, where animals are kept under conditions that taunt all standards, in tight cages in which they hurt each other, and it is only so that someone can increase his status by wearing fur on each other. We have seen that the state also allows animals to be killed in a way that is insulting to the standards, with unnecessary pain being caused to these animals. We've seen circuses where animals for people's amusement are trained in a most beastly way, used only for commercial and entertainment purposes. To the Left, the protection of animals has always been, is and will be important. And the protection of animals does not constitute an area for absolutely no compromise. I personally support the liquidation of fur farms and support the ban on ritual slaughter. And that I can repeat here today, in the Senate, and then in the Seym, in front of the cameras. Why am I saying this? Because our group on the fundamental issue, on the issue of animal protection, will not change opinions every day, unlike the PiS state. 'Cause where are you today, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the PiS? Are you for or against it? We've seen the vote in the Seym, we've been hearing about the upswing of the Senate. For you, this bill in the Seym was purely political. Now you have a huge problem to maintain such unity and one opinion in the Senate, an opinion: yes, we want the protection of animals, we want respect for animals. And why is that such a big problem for you right now? Because when it was a political theme, when it was used to play at the United Right camp, it had to be dealt with in one way rather than another. And that's why it was processed quickly, at night, actually in a way that insults legislative standards, but we have been used to this process for 5 years. Today is a problem, because now that the government has been formed, when the state has signed a new coalition agreement, there is a problem in the Senate to keep the majority in support of this project, because it is necessary to take further responsibility for whether you will say: yes, we meant not political issues, we meant animal protection. Now it's harder to stay on the side of animal rights. We have very clear views on this issue, unchangeable values and we believe that the law should, of course, be passed. Is it perfect? No. Of course, these rules could be better formulated, more thoughtful, moving even further forward on specific issues. But the adoption of this law today will cause us to take the first step in the protection of animals, that this law may go to the President's desk, not to the Sejm, where either these amendments of the Senate will be simply rejected, or that law will never be discussed again. We know these situations, too. The adoption of this law today would have meant that the president would have gotten it on his desk and could have signed it, which in turn would have meant that animal rights would actually be protected. Of course you can refine that bill. And I am thinking of all those who today benefit from this industry, who are working in this industry and will have to deal with problems related to the decommissioning of the industry. We all know that. I would like to stress that in the Sejm we clearly demanded compensation for farmers, entrepreneurs and local government units, but then our vote was not heard. The state can't leave these people behind. Unfortunately, a good bill must also be followed by specific money, because respect for animals does not mean that you should not remember the people who work in this industry. But today, here and now, the most important thing is not to prolong this legislative process so that this law becomes effective. And I'll remind you of another bill that we had in the Senate a few months ago. It was a law on the immediate isolation of the perpetrators of violence. We, both during the committee's deliberations and during the High House's deliberations, knew that this law was not fully refined, that this law would have to be amended, but we wanted to put an end to violence against women and children. And the Senate made an amendment to that bill, but that bill was passed. And I think it's the same now. The point is to make this step concretely so that the law is already in force in the Polish legal order and that the protection of animals, the real protection of animals, enters into force. Therefore, at this legislative stage, on behalf of the Left Parliamentary Club, together with Senator Wojciech Necessary, I propose that this law be adopted without amendment. There is no compromise if we are talking about the rights of living beings. This isn't up for discussion. Animal rights should be protected at an appropriate level. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address you, in particular, the Senators of the PiS. The left says we're checking. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u257	Thank you, Senator. Senator Richard Bober, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u258	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! After your speech, Marshal, all I have is... I know that from this tribune it is easy and easy to speak, from others also, in front of the cameras it is also possible. I would ask your marshal to go outside to those 60,000 farmers, and tell them what he said here to us, pointing to those farmers who care about their animals as those who do not have empathy, who treat these animals improperly. It is not possible to talk to people who work hard, live the Polish people who are attached to their homeland, and here today they have come for a public consultation, like on 30 September. Well, these consultations take place on the streets of Warsaw There was no place for them in the Seym, where they were to be done properly. I would like to thank Marshal Grodzk for the fact that everyone here in the upper chamber could come to the meeting of the 2nd committee. Legislative and agriculture ..and submit your comments. If this bill is so good, why have more than 3,000 comments and amendments been received? Then why were there very exciting speeches from various industries here in this room? Everyone could speak, and in fact very few people spoke positively about this law, a law so bad for the Polish village, for Polish agriculture, but also a law that forbids us Poles to exercise their rights within the framework of business activity. The Ombudsman sent a letter to the Senate Marshal indicating all these restrictions. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to understand that this law has caused one conflict... Once again, the Polish village was tried to fight with the city. He's trying to argue with us here in the Senate, giving us a subject that should be settled at the level of regulations, not at the level of laws that we don't know what they're bringing. I have filed a motion to reject this law in its entirety. I am listening to this discussion, and I was there with farmers, and I am convinced that this is the best solution for this moment. These should be at least 2 separate laws, 2 separate projects for pets, and the other for livestock, if we want to work on it. There must be no introduction of such galimatias into one law, and above all, dividing us into those who have empathy and love animals, and those who treat animals badly. I am on the side of those who speak unambiguously and in common sense: let's look at the economy, let's look at man. Let's look at what is happening in the Polish countryside. It's not like these farmers came here out of kindness. Under such terrible conditions... They came here to protect their farms to protect their families. They love Polish land, they want to work there and they want their children to stay in this Polish village and take over this stature after their parents. And what future are we showing them? What is this stabilization of economic activities in agriculture? They ask me, Mr. Senator, who's next, what kind of business? Because you cross out 2 or 3 elements... We are really debating today, after these amendments, about one thing: is a chicken more important than a cow? Because it really went to this level after the amendments were tabled at the agricultural committee meeting yesterday. Why have chickens been turned off and not done in relation to cattle? For cattle, which is definitely more important for the Polish village, for Polish farmers the production branch. After all, not so long ago, when in Podlasie we had a problem with ASF, they said to these farmers: "Come into the breeding of non-bound, distant species. Enter the sheep farm, enter the cattle farm. And after a year of operation, when they started their normal business, when they made commitments, suddenly we say no. The consequences of this law will be incalculable for Polish agriculture. All those who gave us opinions were really just showing the direct impact it would have on exports. But all these connections are not shown, these side effects are not shown, which will result in such solutions. You have to understand the countryside and agriculture to know these mechanisms to know how it works every day. Because the chain is that the consequences will be felt by all: those who work in agriculture, those who provide their services to farmers, companies directly connected with the production of agriculture, but this will also be felt by the banking sector, which finances all these activities of farmers. Farmers are one of the safest borrowers, they pay off their loans. And I had a meeting with representatives of cooperative banks, where it was made clear how much credit would have to be made and what this would lead to. I would ask the senators, in fact, not to be guided by emotion, to reject this bad bill and to consider what to do with this problem, but in a completely different legislative procedure, when we listen to all those who have a decisive voice in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u259	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Surely those who say that our attitude to animal rights, our attitude towards the animal is a measure of civilizational progress, is a measure of how far we are from the barbarians. I sign every word of it. But to be honest, the measure of our attitude to progress and the measure of our attitude to the value of our civilisation is also the attitude towards minorities, including sexual ones, not denying them e.g. The right to be human. The measure of our attitude towards civilizational values is ours. In fact, that's where I should start. Respect for the Constitution, respect for parliamentary procedure, respect for religious minorities, not offering them, for example. in Poland the Orthodox was proposed to leave our country; from the government camp such words were spoken. And here I am asking myself now whether, for sure, the same people who deny a large part of the citizens of the Republic of Poland the right to call themselves people because they have a different sexual orientation, the same people who want to send other people abroad, the same people who, by gesture and act, show what their attitude towards parliamentary procedure is, are credible in proclaiming liberal slogans, in proclaiming it, here is that they have suddenly converted to civilization values, progress. I just don't believe them. And I would very much appeal to all my fellow senators so that you would not believe that in this one matter these intentions are noble enough so that we can close our eyes that its implementation is accompanied by exactly the same political practice as that which accompanied the destruction of the Polish judiciary, with our protests. In the same way, within a few days, under the cover of the night, with as much as possible circumvention of the parliamentary procedure, as soon as possible, to complete what one of the Advocates of Law and Justice said in full public, laying out political doctrine at least part, as it turns out, of the current power camp: it must be in Russia and in Poland like Jarosław Kaczyński wants. Let's go over what happened to this case. For some reason, the President of the governing party, today the Deputy Prime Minister, decided that this matter should be dealt with in Poland. And you can't deny him the truth. Yeah, this case needs to be dealt with, full agreement. He announced this noble intention on Tik Toku, that after six days, practically without discussion, unfortunately with the support of a large part of his political opponents... the President of the political party who gave it to us would very quickly get rid of this political camp in the Sejm and send it to the Senate. Thanks to Marshal Grodzk, we can proceed on this bill as we should proceed on important laws in the normal Parliament, but we cannot forget about its genesis and its specific records. In the 21st century in the European Union, how can we prepare a law that abstracts at all from the fundamental principle of ownership? I may very much dislike mink breeders as specific people and as groups. I believe that this is an extremely unethical business and a business that should be banned. That's what I think. However, breeders are people who have been engaged in legitimate business in my country, and if my country, also in my voice, considers that it should not be conducted in this business, they should be treated properly as persons who have been engaged in legitimate business activities. I repeat: I do not like this activity, I find it unethical and it should be prohibited. However, I wonder what we, those who will support this bill today, will fund Poland. I have heard from the rapporteur today that this may not have come to you, but it has been expressis verbis said in this House that the compensation decisions concerning fur barons will be made individually. Dear Friends of the Platform, this means that the gentleman who is helping the principal's father, who is filming against sexual minorities, will go to his colleagues for compensation. Do you think he's gonna come out of this conversation unhappy? I suppose he'll be happy, and I don't want to give him that satisfaction. Therefore, today I ask you as your friend, a colleague: let us not give a gift to the man we have been fighting for so many years, let us not give him this gift. We can act like an opposition, say, "This isn't about the problem. We don't believe you, evil man. You want to solve this problem with the same bad way that you have destroyed the judiciary in Poland that you have discharged us from the European Union. We're an opposition, and I don't get the argument that our voters don't understand it. They are our voters precisely because they understand that we are opposed to writing Poland out of Europe, that we are opposed to kerneling, talking about a worse and better way, that we are opposed to sharing villages and cities, sharing people into conservatives, liberals, socialists, nationalists. This rule by division, this constant quarrel between Poles is not a result, it is a political method. And today, in the Senate, we have a chance to say, "We do not agree to this method, Mr President, Prime Minister." It's not about the case. It is about the method, respect for Parliament, respect for Europe, respect for our civilization values. One thing I do know is that today, when we're discussing things that maybe for some of our constituents can turn out to be distant... We often use the phrase "farmer." But, ladies and gentlemen, who is the breeder today, the one we're talking about? This isn't a farmer in a picture or a cepel postcard. This is a young Polish entrepreneur, by the way often voting for Law and Justice. And today he has a chance to think about whether he's doing the right thing. Let him think about it. This is a young Polish entrepreneur, very often conservative in his beliefs, but an entrepreneur. And what do we hear today? The government is prepared to make concessions on ritual slaughter. But to whom? Is it against these Polish entrepreneurs? No. It turns out that when the Prime Minister Our Prime Minister, who came out here from a big corporation, from a bank, from a foreign bank and became Prime Minister It has the interest of Polish entrepreneurs and poultry corporations to choose from, of course, if it is to help anybody, it is not the breeders of Polish, it is the big corporations that breed poultry mass and industrially. But, ladies and gentlemen, there's no moral difference here. If someone says they ban ritual slaughter, but they only ban it in the case of cattle, and in the case of chickens no longer, it's some kind of total hypocrisy, just total hypocrisy. The only difference is that here the slaughter is carried out by a Polish entrepreneur on Polish cattle, which is bred in Poland, not by large companies with dispersed, very often foreign capital, which produce poultry. And let them produce, pay taxes in Poland, okay. I am against the ban on ritual slaughter in general, and I am, of course, against the ban on poultry companies to be clear. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be very honest with you: I am against killing animals at all, and I do not want to be a part of it. That's why I haven't eaten meat in years. I'm a vegetarian. I every day not for propaganda purposes and not for health... 'Cause for my health, I had to give up other pleasures, not the time to talk about it from this bleacher... [[Voice from the room: But which one?]] ...but not from eating meat. And I did it because I don't eat meat because I don't want to be a part of it. But I do not think that my deep moral conviction in this respect is to be a force forcing it on my fellow citizens, who actually want to eat meat, and especially I no longer want to punish those of my fellow citizens who live in the production of meat in Poland, Polish farmers. I'm talking about this new category. These are often young people who have often invested in their studies, including agricultural ones. This is the future, this is progress. That is why we should beat their heads with a stick today, and that is in a situation where we are all in agreement with Poland on this financial dimension, in the budgetary dimension, has more powerful challenges than paying compensation to masters from furs today, whose business, as we know very well, ends anyway. Yeah, 'cause people And praise to God they buy less and less fur, because we hope that even this discussion of many people will realize that today the torment of animals is only to make someone feel better because they are wearing nice fur, is really a fanaber that is not worth the suffering of animals. This business is failing anyway. Ask yourselves, especially conspiracy theorists: what would you do if you had a business that you knew wouldn't be worth it in three years anyway? Isn't it better to ask your colleagues in the government to ban this business and pay good compensation? I would like everyone to reflect on the consequences of today's vote. Let me repeat, I have a huge request for this: think about it. I respect that very much because I have exactly the same beliefs that you want to protect animal rights. I'll do it with you. We can prepare in the Senate. Also with our colleagues from Law and Justice, because today they expressed their willingness to do so. A law that will simply be good, even cross-party. There's a chance. But for us to take advantage of this opportunity, today let's just vote against this bill. Let us not make a gift to the Law and Justice, which thanks to our voices wants to get out of the trouble that it has prepared itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u261	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Andrzej Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm taking the floor, but I don't think I'm going to go into the legal intricacies of the paragraphs, the details of the changes or the proposals. I'd have a few thoughts to think about. For 18 or 19 years ago, I was an old-timer of suki in Ukraine, in Lviv. In the Lviv Cathedral during the homily the auxiliary bishop of the archdiocese of Lviv mentioned such an episode. He was on a visit to a poor parish and met a simple, poor citizen. And he asked him what he wanted of power, from their chief of the district council. 'Cause that's how they divide. And he got this answer: here is poverty, we are poor, we are poor, we are poor, we are poor. If there's anything power can do to us, build us, we'll be happy. If not, that's fine. But one, when I meet with a representative of power, council or district, I expect to feel at least for a moment, for a fraction of a second that I was important to him that I was honored that I was not ignored, I was not despised. He's not talking about respect and respect for his dog, his cat. He's not talking about caring about his rabbits or the pigs he can grow up in trouble for him and his family to survive the next day. But he's talking about respect for him, respect for man, respect for politics. Those words are deep in my mind. And as far as I could, I was doing this model, I'm trying to do it, I'm trying to do it. And these words support me and determine mine, so to speak, the shape of thought. Therefore, I strongly disagree with what he said when he wrote this Animal Protection Act, a young 26-year-old young man: we want to show that the measure of our humanity is how we treat animals. Young man, the measure of our humanity is how we treat another man. What is our attitude toward man, especially the poor, the elderly, the helpless or the unborn. We have a young film in front of us when a man in uniform was so fondly referring to the dog and other animals he had at home, and when he went to work, he unscrupulously shot the prisoner in the back of the head. Another statement of a well-known politician, defenders of this law, let's skip the name: humanitarian, man who loves animals, loves people; countries that respect animals, respect people, because love is directed towards all species. Are you sure? E.g. one of the European countries has banned the cultivation of fur animals. And at the same time in this country, euthanasia and the killing of unborn children are reaping. Thank you for such humanism, Mr President. My attitude towards such humanism is expressed in words which, here, in the Senate, had already fallen in the previous term, called by one of the senators, or Senator Józef Łyczak, and came out of the mouth of Bishop Bronisław Dembowski on October 18, 1996: I, you know, value people who pity animals, but I fear people who pity animals, but do not pity man. We have an animal defense project that supports left-wing environments, the most radical environments, almost left-wing. I've never had this environment in my entire life. The ban on the cultivation of fur animals does not withstand criticism both from the legal and moral side. And here's what I'm quoting. I've already quoted it, and I'm still quoting it. The words of Prof. Mieczysław Fish, which I take for granted: why should the State prohibit the economic activity of some citizens while other entrepreneurs can run similar businesses? Sheep farmers, chickens, geese have no restrictions. mink and fox farmers Yeah. Therefore, there is immediate constitutional doubt about the equality between different companies and the law. Ideally, there is even more doubt. For neomarksists, the goal is not only to eliminate fur breeding, but to free animals from human rule. For the most radical ideologists The example is Sylvia Spurek Even milking cows and butter production are morally unacceptable. If we prohibit the breeding of fur animals, we will not find any reasonable reason not to prohibit the breeding of pigs, cows or poultry in the future. There are no factual arguments that indicate the superiority of minks over e.g. Goats. If we believe that killing minks for human use is immoral, it will also be immoral to kill geese unless we stop using our senses and start practicing pure voluntarism, creating the law according to the majority, without reference to moral principles, to the principles of justice. All that quote, I only changed a few words in that quote. So I'm asking. : are we not moving towards animal humanization and human animation, i.e. reducing it to animal status? We've made animals a legal-moral subject. I'm convinced that by adopting this bill, we're going to open the door wide to some kind of madness. What about economic losses? I support my colleague, Senator Jackowski, who said that the literal introduction of these rules would clearly be detrimental to the Polish economy, and clearly in favour of the German, Ukrainian, Czech, Slovak, Russian, Danish economy. This can be shown by numbers. Who's gonna take over these fur animals? Probably Denmark, Ukraine, Finland. Who's gonna take over the ritual slaughter? Slovakia, Czech Republic, Russia. What losses will the Polish farmer suffer? That's what we've been talking about. I can't even count it, but it goes into billions. It's a connected vessel system, isn't it? There's one more thing I'd like to mention here. And the disposal? One lady, perhaps the Deputy Minister of Agriculture, said here a year ago that the disposal of 700,000 t of animal by-products gives fish and poultry producers a profit of PLN 1 billion. Well, they're putting it all together. Who's gonna take over this disposal now? Possibly foreign companies, mainly with German capital, which in Poland mastered about 95% the rendering market. What are they gonna do with the waste? They're probably gonna burn them, cash they're gonna take away, and they're gonna leave us the stench. I think the price of the goods will go up, too. Well, they're not gonna fall. And this is also the point: the breeding of fur animals is the most ecological form of handling by-products of animal origin. I think that's important, too. My constituents' expectations were such that... I've met with a lot of voters, and I've got a lot of 'em, 'cause almost 180 grand. I think that was the fourth or fifth score in the Senate. I didn't meet anyone to back me up then, and now he told me to back this bill up. It is the area mostly inhabited by the Catholic people. The voters say to me, "Well, it's nice that you're protecting the animals, banning the production of furs, etc." But what about unborn children? Every 6.5 minutes 1 Christian in the world is killed, murdered. Is that what you're asking for? In Europe 42 million unborn children were killed last year. Have you spoken on this subject? What's going on in Poland? That's the kind of question they ask me. That's why as far as this bill goes, I'm going to vote... I've already made that decision in my heart. I'll transfer it to the ballot later. I will vote according to my conscience, according to the will of my constituents, because I vowed this to them, to the people I vowed, to Poland I vowed. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u263	Thank you, Senator. I would like the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej, who is sitting remotely. [[Mr. Marshal, am I audible?]] Yes, you're audible. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u264	Thank you very much. After this strong speech by Senator Spider, I need to change the idea of my speech a little bit, because I didn't expect to live to see the moment when the Senator of Law and Justice will pass most of his club in the Sejm, together with Jarosław Kaczyński, to the left. That's it. I have no doubt about it. A collision of sensitivity of a true, strong man from Zawia, with eight children, with the sensitivity of an intelligent man from Żoliborz, childless. A year ago, just a year ago, ladies and gentlemen I'm talking about my colleagues in Law and Justice. You wouldn't even notice when that bill would fly through the Senate. Maybe you guys could wake up in time, get out of bed and come up and vote. Mr. Marshal Karczewski would have done it as quickly as the others. 24-hour laws. And of course... I will talk about the two Senators of Law and Justice, whom I personally like very much, about Senator Jackowski and Senator Łyczak. For Saint Luke spoke of the joy of heaven of every sinner, and he is worthy of 99 righteous men. It's nice of you gentlemen to thank us for this reflection in the Senate. Senator Stanisławek, Senator Bobko... Where are they? They're not here today. By the way, I was wondering, by listening to Senator Jackowski... I emphasize once again that I like him very much, but I remembered this old saying: the devil wore an ornat and his tail was ringing at Mass. Mr. Senator, we told you that the way we dealt with laws in the previous term will lead to the fact that one day you will be followed by prosecutors who will have no democratic authority over themselves. Well, there's been a misfortune that the farmers came for you because this is your electorate. These farmers came for you and suddenly you woke up. I'm very happy to remind you once again that you've woken up, but I also remind you of our warnings that this kind of proceding... If certain procedures are already violated, if democratic safeguards are thrown out, then one day people who decide with you, a narrow group, will dream of doing something that will hit you. I am a little surprised that this method of proceding, which so many of my colleagues spoke about, including the Senators of Law and Justice, was so easily passed by by a representative of the left, your marshal, your patron, because to me, how... how did this bill, for some time in an outrageous manner, come most of the Seym, should be a signal saying that this is another mockery of democracy. And of course, all of us... I absolutely agree that some very important measure of our civilization and development phase is our attitude towards animals. What is happening in this area is indeed unacceptable. But it turns out, and we're going to have to face it, that as some things are processed, which we think are dramatically undemocratic, in a way that taunts all legal order, then we tear our robes apart, and if something is proceded in exactly the same gangster way, but this is exactly what we think, then it's all right? I don't agree with that analysis. And I'm sure any minimum is to make very serious changes to this law. And I also agree with the fact that going to compensation, as Marshal Kaminski said, could be a Gesheft. You just have to do it in a normal, civilized way, with some decent vacathio legis eventually, if we're going to do it, just like that. I repeat: we begin to take shortcuts where we are on our way, because this is the world view, and procedures are being broken exactly the same as in the previous term. And I don't like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u265	Thank you, Senator. [[In corrigendum mode.]] In corrigendum mode, Mr. Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Since Senator Pociej was kind enough to mention my name, I'd like to say a few words in correction mode. Let me put it this way: the senator quoted the Bible in his statement, and I will answer so evangelically: whoever is without sin, let him cast the first stone. Mr. Senator and Dear Platform, I also remember the 8th term as the knee was pushed by the Offe Act, about extending the retirement age, and what happened here in the Senate at that time. So I think you just have to remember that. And that's what I'm dedicated to Senator Pociej. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u267	Thank you, Senator. I thought you wanted to correct the Bible. [[No! No way!]] Senator Bosacki, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u268	Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to request a one and a half-hour recess. [[Voice from the room: How much?]] An hour-and-a-half break. [[Right now?]] Yeah, right now. [[That's 6:10, right?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u269	Good. I'm declaring a recess... [[Voice from the room: Yet Senator Pupa wants to join the discussion.]] But the discussion isn't closed yet. [[Voice from the room: You can sign in.]] You can also sign in during the break. Senator Pupa, please type it in. We're adjourned until 6:10 p.m. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 41 to 18 minutes 22]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u270	I'm reopening the session. We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Animal Protection Act and some other laws. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski... [[No, no, thank you.]] The senator is retreating. Then please take the floor of Senator Jack Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The law has given rise to a very profound discussion on the issue of animal protection. Well, that's a good thing, 'cause that's probably the kind of discussion we needed. However, it worries that some of the speeches were actually very different from the very essence of the problems, and focused on accusing the reception procedure, although in the Sejm such doubts were not raised by Members. One of the predecessors already talked about mode. I remember hundreds of millions, maybe 150 million zlotys, as I remember, of OFE were taken over in one day, even though we protested very strongly in the Seym at that time. Changes in the pension law, which took away the right to retirement from millions of Poles, moved them over time, were also adopted in a similar manner. But it's a good thing that here in the Senate we have the opportunity to complete these changes. It is also good that there are changes that the government has proposed that these changes are going in such a direction as to defend animal rights on the one hand, but on the other hand, to defend human rights and that Polish farmers can continue to produce and maintain themselves in difficult international competition. We need to remember that there is a period of recurrence of Coronavirus, the situation is variable, changes from day to day, problems arise again in individual countries. Not only in Poland, it is even harder in other countries. Hotels, restaurants, this field of life, which to a large extent is the recipient of agricultural products, once again closes in many places. And these difficulties can also affect Polish farmers. That is why these changes, which on the last day, yesterday, were proposed by your Marshal Pęk, those proposed by your Prime Minister, are going in the right direction. It is worth wondering how else we can improve this law in this difficult situation. That is why I have already tabled 3 amendments, I will make a fourth amendment, which will allow Polish farmers to produce during this difficult period, but at the same time to clarify the rules of slaughter without stunning, slaughter for religious unions, and to clarify them, because in Polish law... Besides, the Court's unenforced judgment indicates that. So, in understanding that sometimes we also have to make difficult decisions, I would like to ask that we lean very deeply on these changes, on each of them, so that we examine them at the committee meeting and then, of course, everyone makes a decision during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u272	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Zdzisław Pupa.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u273	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For a long time now, we have been discussing the Law on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and some other laws contained in the Senate Print No 209, which arouses a lot of emotions, many misunderstandings, a law which brought farmers to the street. They in the rain and, you can say, in the cold they protest, are fighting to ensure that their farms can properly produce, prosper, that their management, the welfare of their animals, but also economic existence is maintained at a reasonable, appropriate level. For this reason, there are also various kinds of invectives, judgments, statements, as is the case when emotions are heard. This leads to a far-reaching situation, a state of affairs that is taking place. We do not know exactly who is behind the Animal Protection Act and some other laws. There were young people who were going to come up with this bill in some way. Apparently very elegant, which was supposed to protect animals. But this bill, as it turns out, does not protect all animals. It doesn't protect them practically... It only protects dogs, cats, and the rabbit no longer protects. And practically eliminates agricultural production What enters into economic affairs, minks, rodents, which are used for the production of fur skins, in which furs are worn by elegant ladies. But it also threatens our presence in such difficulty by Minister Krzysztof Jurgiel, later by Minister Ardanowski, acquired Arab markets, acquired Asian markets, acquired markets in the East or in the European Union. Let me just remind you that we shot ourselves in as if we had entered the rhythm of international action and imposed an embargo on Russia to export beef, pork and other meat to them. That's what caused the entire market collapse. Today we face a similar dilemma. What happens when we suddenly stop producing or when Polish, you can say, magazines will fill with Polish beef and the external markets will lose? This bill, which was prepared by young people And youth has to do with it that sometimes it's self-righteous that sometimes even it's delicious it has 2 elements. The economic element has already been signalled, but it also has a strong worldview element, which here, in this room, was also mentioned. My previous speakers spoke very beautifully in the people of Senators Józef Łyczak, Jan Maria Jackowski and Andrzej Pajak, and I should not say anything after their speeches, because in these speeches there appeared these elements which I mentioned here. But there is no way to ignore that the Polish village was actually in some kind of shock. A shock caused by what was presented. And this shock continues, this shock we saw today on the street, this shock was also seen in the post of security, because it was the police who had to provide protection, they drove on ambulance signals, and practically policemen secured this very correct manifestation or protest. And we must pay attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that people who often have nothing in common with agriculture do not know each other, speak, talk about agriculture. I explained that yesterday at the Senate Agriculture Committee. It's like I'm teaching a surgeon to operate. It's like I'm teaching engineers, cosmic experts what to do, how to behave, what to build spaceships. It's the same as people who don't know much about agriculture, who don't know much about agriculture, who don't know much about rural farming, who don't know much about farming. A key question is being raised. And many people ask me about it, too, who will make money in the liquidation of Polish production? It's not like there's going to be a vacuum. We are in the European Union, borders are open. Markets can't stand the void. The demand for fur is still getting smaller, but it still is. Demand for beef from religious slaughter He's showing up, too. The demand for poultry, too. The poultry farmers have somehow overcome the possibility that this slaughter and export can be guaranteed, but fewer farmers who produce cattle for fattening do not, unfortunately, have this privilege. And today we also need to pay attention to the situation in which we are in. I don't remember, ladies and gentlemen, talking about food safety in our country. Healthy food, organic food is often spoken of, but it is not said how to secure food so that food given to the consumer really is without chemistry, healthy. I'm just gonna give you an example. I talked to the farmers who came to me, to my senator's office, to look for help, and the farmer tells me this: to sell the Arabs poultry, chickens, I have to prove the quality of the feed that these animals feed. The processing plant that prepares these animals must ensure proper cooling. They can't be frozen, they can't be frozen, it has to be temperature. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's a proof of that. Only that Arab countries or Israel can take care of the interests of their citizens. But can we make sure that the Polish consumer receives the right quality food? That's a question by the way, practically a suggestion. Because we've got signals that 25-year-old freezers are coming, and they're infected with dioxins, and that kind of stuff keeps popping up in our stores, in our public space. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in order not to repeat these conclusions which have been made here, those comments which have been made... I would like to express my deep regret at the fact that this law, as I have already said, is of a worldview nature. This law was adopted in the Sejm, you can say, in a suprapolitical, cross-party agreement. I don't think it's happened in six years when the Law and Justice are governed by law to consult on the SLDs line when adopting the law on... this law, called a little perversely the Law on the amendment of the Animal Protection Act and some other laws. And today, in your speech, the Marshal of Moravian-Stanecka, who called for this bill to be adopted, without amendment, because this law according to your Marshal is perfect, is appropriate and should be adopted... That's why I'm resisting. That doesn't convince me to vote for the bill in the shape she left the Sejm. I would like to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the senator... i.e. together with Senator Łyczak, who will significantly improve this law. If it is not corrected, I will unfortunately be forced to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u274	Thank you very much, Senator. I ad vocem, since I was called to the board. I didn't say a word about the bill being perfect, but I said it should be voted for. Thank you very much. Senator Mieczysław Chróścikowski... [[Jerzy Chróścikowski.]] I'm sorry, Jerzy Chróścikowski. [[My middle name is Mieczysław.]] I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! So much has been said today that I should no longer speak, but I would like to say again about those amendments that we tabled, because I also signed the amendment by Senator Łyczak. That's where we're talking about deleting this article. Point 1 (13). In the amendment that you submitted to us here, Marshal Pak as part of the government's aid... This one's unacceptable. I already said that she has to change. We voted against it because this version cannot be accepted. That amendment goes further, complements that it will be possible to export slaughtered animals when it comes to religious rites. In this government amendment, which says poultry are only allowed... Well, we can't agree to that. We think there's got to be... There's another amendment you've tabled to Senator Jacek Bogucki. She's got another version. If we want to keep that version, which is also an acceptable version... This one's alternate. So we need to figure out which one's better. Export is deleted with the latter, i.e. export is not prohibited, but there is still a record of what was in the previous record that training should be carried out... We should therefore consider whether we want to introduce this amendment or not. I personally, as I told you yesterday, am against that amendment you applied to Senator Pop. In the compilation of minority proposals, this is Amendment 1. I'm appealing for caution. If there is no release of exports in the case of cattle, I will be forced to vote against the bill. This is one of the most important amendments for farmers. They want a turn, they want it to work. Let me get this straight: it's a misunderstanding... I got a bunch of calls yesterday from the poultry producers that farmers had been divided. You can't separate farmers, poultry and other... This should be allowed completely. And no, like the government suggests, 12 months, just... That's where the date is, but it's almost 12 months in total. There is an amendment to be considered, which I have signed, or an amendment by Senator Bogucki, which sets out additional conditions in this case. So much for these amendments. But, of course, we would like those amendments that have been proposed by the government to remain. They partially satisfy us, for it is necessary to ensure that we do not enter the farms. If they're gonna go in there, Just like I've brought in a lot of colleagues. Let's expand the Veterinary Inspection, give it more powers, they already have the inspection, but let them have more equipment, and let's not create a special institution to deal with it. Creating new institutions costs more. I believe that veterinary services have had powers so far, should have extended them, increased staff resources and carry out these tasks as they should do, and it is often the case that the Veterinary Inspection is not possible, there are not so many staff. So we need to power the staff here and bring it in here. You do not need to prepare a special law, only on the basis of the Veterinary Act you can carry out these checks calmly. If there is a request from institutions that protect animals, let's call it, recorded, which have the authority to do so, then let these institutions be only whistleblowers, and that should be the Veterinary Inspection, which decides whether there is a need for intervention or not. This is my hot request. Then we can vote in favour. Otherwise Okay, I'm declaring it. I will vote against this law. Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u276	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Krzysztof Brejza, Aleksander Szwed, Benjamin Godyla, Marek Pęk, Joanna Sekuła, Janusz Gromek, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor presented their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. I also inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing: Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Wojciech Kończyny, Senator Marek Bogucki, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, Senator Marek Borowski, Senator Janusz Łyczak and a group of senators and Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. [[Voice from the hall: Joseph.]] I'm sorry, Józef Łyczak. [[Voice from the hall: And Jacek Bogucki.]] And I'm sorry. [[It's from behind, isn't it?]] It was arranged from behind, yes. And Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. That's all. [[Voice from the hall: And Jacek Bogucki.]] Senator Jacek Bogucki is listed here, yes. [[And Mark Pop.]] I don't have it. [[Mark Pop, too.]] Senator Marek Pęk also submitted legislative proposals. Do you have a representative of the government, or do you wish to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. [[Voice from the room: We'll try...]] I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u277	The joint meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Legislative Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted to the Act amending the Animal Protection Act and certain other laws will take place in the plenary room 2 hours after the adjournment is announced. Now it's 6:44 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-13-senat-16-3.u278	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be in charge until 10:00 p.m. After the break, the vote will take place at 10:00 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 18 minutes 44]]
