ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 9, - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 9.30 a.m., - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10, - the Territorial Government and Regional Policy - immediately after the end of the votes, - Education, Science and Youth - hour 12, - Infrastructure together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 14, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 14, - to State Control, together with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, at 3 p.m. 16, - Infrastructure - hour 16, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 17, - Health-- hour. 17, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 18, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism together with the Health Commission - h.m. 7:30. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u2	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: The Health Committee's report on draft legislation: I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u3	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Health on Parliament's draft laws. I'm not gonna read the names of those laws. Your marshal just did. I'm going to say that it's printing 683, 684, 685 and 686, and the committee's report is printing 698. At the committee meeting, it was accepted without objection as a leading print No 683, examining all these documents together and taking into account the relevant records of the remaining prints during the process of the lead printing. 53 minority proposals were tabled during the meeting, on which we will vote at the third reading. I would like to highlight the good work that has been done for many hours in the Committee on Health, which, despite various positions, also disputes, has been successfully and substantively carried out. I think that from this point on, I will be the voice of the whole committee, as well as the entire parliament, so that this work in difficult conditions for hours, from afternoon to night, will bear the right fruit. Patients, citizens are waiting for this law, which regulates a number of important health issues, as well as organisational issues and others. I hope that the Polish Senate will deal with this law as quickly and without undue delay. I am convinced that this is something that everyone in Poland is waiting for. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President, for presenting the report, but also for this hard work at night. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements... Six minutes. ... Six-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piecha will be the first to speak. He will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to express my views on the outcome of the committee's work, the work of the committee on draft laws contained in prints 684, 685, 686 opposition clubs and on the draft law proposed by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice contained in print 683. It has been chosen, as the President said, leading printing, which is the most extensive draft, a legislative proposal for the High House, but I must say that I am very pleased with the cooperation. The discussion was long because the work was tedious, the matter was very complicated, concerning many aspects of our lives. It contains not only what we offer to Polish patients, which we will offer to those who stand on the first line of the fight against the koravirus, but also what we say much here, stick, i.e. rigors, which will be imposed on certain social groups, not to mention citizens. What am I very happy about? Maybe I'll talk about the harder stuff first. The fact that it will finally be settled is the obligation to wear masks, masks, trimmings, etc. Today we know from various press reports, various reports, professional writings and experts that for today the only way to prevent the spread of SARS-CoV-2 infection is simply to wear a mask, social distance and disinfection. We have no other way and in the foreseeable future - but we are working in times of very sudden change - we do not expect to see a major breakthrough this year. Today it will already be an obligation expressed in the law and not so far in the regulation. Therefore, the legal opinion on cases before courts - because they were taking place - will be unambiguous. I will say more, we have also accepted the amendment of the Left and the independent Member so that the seller can refuse to sell the goods if someone in the store does not cover his nose and face. We know this famous case, but it's a single case, but it's the kind of casus that we wanted to settle. Of course, there are still some difficult matters relating mainly to the accounts. These are the accounts of the funds that were transferred to businesses under the crisis shield. There is still a financial envelope that is directed at these entrepreneurs, and everyone can apply for it, but, in colloquial terms, they will have to confess whether the previous funds have been spent as intended. It is not that the trader will have to submit some complicated reports, multi-page reports, but will have to write a simple statement that the funds that were transferred under the shield have been used as intended. And such a statement has strict sanctions, is under criminal sanctions, these are very serious things. What am I happy about? I am mostly satisfied with all the cases that serve patients. And patients are served by those issues that involve improving their care. First of all, we have expanded the ability to quickly train professional health care professionals in taking a swab, as far as possible. It's important. It's not like we're testing, because the result will be good, but you need this swab, it's a professional test. Therefore, we will use various health care professionals based on State Medical Rescue, including military rescue services, to simply enlarge the pool of people who are professionally swabbing. The second case concerns workers who are on the front line, and it is not only employees of broadly understood health care - these are also employees of the services: the police, the army, the Ministry of Internal Affairs, they are also workers of the fire department, they are local workers, such as municipal guards. And we suggested to them that in the event that, due to the actions taken with the infected coronavirus, there would be infection, and consequently either treatment, or quarantine, or isolation, they would receive a 100% benefit. the due benefit of the Social Security Office and not, as so far provided for by the Act, 80%. We have extended this group to the Prison Service staff, because there are hospitals in prisons, and we have to, maybe with pain, I would like it to be different, I would like to acknowledge, and social workers who work in accommodation rooms, in homeless homes, they can benefit from it too. The next important thing I would like to stress is the good Samaritan clause. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we will not punish doctors, especially those doctors who are not specialists, for faultless medical errors. This happens in every medical activity, and it would be extremely unfair to treat them very harshly. Of course, there's a wage issue for those who work on the front line. As I announced yesterday, as Prime Minister Morawiecki said, this salary will increase by 100% So it's going to be 200%. Today's salary. So much for the shortcut on the bill. I wanted to thank all the Members. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was hard, but we did it. Finally, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I wanted to make a request to the Marshal for the immediate entry into the third reading of the bill amending certain laws in relation to the counter-crisis situation related to the occurrence of COVID-19 without referring to the committee the amendments and proposals tabled to this bill, of course after the service of their Members. This is justified by the fact that there are very many minority proposals that we will vote on without the committee's examination. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u6	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will speak with Monika Wielichowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u7	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Any bill that deals with the fight against a pandemic should be part of the government's strategy, a thoughtful, coherent strategy that is built up by good laws, good laws, good laws. A good law that should protect citizens' lives and health, but also protect all those who fight for our safety on the front line, fight for our lives and our health. Unfortunately, it's different. The strategy government didn't think it through, nor was it consistent, nor was it communicating with the citizens. Unfortunately, he also committed many sins of omission, because he practically rejected all our demands, appeals. 16 of our billings ended up in a basket. He also rejected over 120 amendments that came from the Senate. There were also many irresponsible words by the Prime Minister and government representatives, because the virus is not in reverse and it is not that there is nothing to be afraid of. That's what he said, not so long ago, in July, Prime Minister Morawiecki. Because we weren't prepared for any kind of epidemic - as Minister Dworczyk said. Today we are reaping the harvest of these very irresponsible words and actions of the government. Unfortunately, this cannot be made up for, because every day brings tragic statistics of infections, deaths, busy ventilators, occupied beds. We're hearing tragic calls from medical paramedics to dispatchers. We're all seeing it, and we're getting scared. We're scared because we see health services sink into chaos and the Prime Minister fights the truth instead of a pandemic. And the truth is, we've already reached the wall. According to the Prime Minister, it's great because, as he says, beds, ventilators, medical personnel, we're oversized. We also have access to flu vaccines, and the economy is doing great. We stop being such a leader, as Prime Minister Morawiecki says, when public television is turned off and people go out - he will look into the hospital, talk to paramedics, look at the health department, who is burdened with work, and talk to teachers who are also more and more afraid. You have to stop propaganda for success, because you can't keep pretending like everything's okay. Yesterday, thanks to the fact that 28 Members of the United Right did not come to work on Tuesday, we were able to lean forward without chaos over another government throwaway accepted by Members. Thanks to this, the project did not go on express in legislative work in the Sejm, without consultation and in chaos. We could focus on talking to the medical community, local authorities, hospital directors, paramedics, talking about the details of this bill and preparing good amendments - good amendments for citizens, good corrections for those who save our health and life. At a meeting of the Health Committee, which lasted yesterday from 3 p.m. 14 to almost an hour. 2 a.m., for 12 hours we worked substantively on all the amendments we tabled. As a Civic Coalition club, we've prepared dozens of them. Unfortunately, only four amendments were accepted. Thanks to the fact that we have leaned down on this project, it will be prohibited to direct to work children up to the age of 14. Guardians of places, those who are posted to fight the COVID, will be subject to the same regulations as other services. As regards the transparency of contracts concluded in the fight against COVID, the information will be included in the Public Procurement Bulletin. Unfortunately, several dozen other important amendments, which would significantly improve health care work and in general the functioning of health care at this difficult time, have been rejected. Unfortunately, the amendment was rejected, which concerned an increase in the special-purpose fund of 5 billion and, unfortunately, the rulers gave up the purchase of 10 million influenza vaccines and at least 100,000. The tests a day, because that's what the money would be for. Unfortunately, there was no amendment that provided a statutory guarantee of 200%. salaries for all health professionals who are fighting against COVID and not just those who are posted by the voivodships. Unfortunately, there was no amendment to this, which said that the hospital director could be removed by decision of the Minister of Health. We're not gonna bring the trade back on Sundays either. Nor has an amendment been passed that has been allocating annual financial resources of not less than 6% to health finance since 2021 GDP. The amendment also did not go through, which concerned changes in additional welfare allowances for an adult caring for a child due to COVID. Nor was there an amendment that made it impossible to impose penalties on hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen! We hope that at second reading - because we will make important amendments - but the rulers will agree with them because they concern all of us. They concern people's lives, health and safety. Let us also remember that the procession does not end in the Seym. We are also counting on the Senate, which will also lean on this draft law, so that this project [[♪ The bell ♪]] was complete and met all expectations of citizens, but also those who fight for our life and health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u8	Thank you, Member. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mrs Magdalena Beyat will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u9	High Izbo! The Prime Minister was talking about the middle road yesterday. To be honest, I don't care if we're going in the middle or across or around right now. I don't think the Poles are interested either. What we're interested in is where this road leads, how long we'll take it and what we're supposed to expect. That is what strategic thinking is all about, and that is what Poles and Poles expect today. I appreciate, of course, that the Prime Minister thanked us for the substantive discussion that took place a week ago. It's just a pity it wasn't much of a result. The left asked what scenario you were looking for in case you ran out of ventilators, how you wanted to act when the daily incidence was 10, 20, 50,000. What's your plan B? We didn't know the answer to those questions either last week or this. The Prime Minister said yesterday that the increase in infections was due to greater social mobility since September. He was talking about young people who are the transmission lane of the epidemic. Well, it doesn't take genius to combine these two facts. If you open schools in a normal way and don't even introduce minimum preventive measures like the obligation to wear masks, you don't reduce the density in overcrowded schools, then what do you expect? We've been alerting and asking about this whole vacation. A week ago, we appealed: book at least two weeks' breaks, only two weeks. During this time, you will examine the students and employees, collect reliable data on how the coronavirus spreads in schools. This time will slow down the development of the epidemic, and then start schools in the rotation system, so that the number of students will allow distance. Do it now, because it's gonna be too late in a minute and you're gonna have to close the schools for a while. So, instead of strategy, we got another act in a hurry yesterday, introducing solutions for which there was time a few months ago. It is good that some of our amendments have been made. Among them is the possibility of refusing to sell in the store to people who do not want to cover their mouths and noses, or the deletion of the record about targeting parents of young children's parents to fight the koravirus. A good solution is higher salaries for health care professionals. Normal decency makes it necessary to compensate for work in particularly difficult conditions, due to health risks and even life. We consider it a step in the right direction to make public aid for companies subject to compliance with health recommendations. For many days we have been hearing disturbing information about the fact that employers are putting people's lives and health at risk by hiding cases of infections from health care. They lie, claiming that sick people worked remotely so as not to send their employees to quarantine. This solution is not ideal, but gives a clear signal that such practices should not be acceptable. Unfortunately, you rejected our 100% amendment. salaries for all staff in quarantine. I'll admit that the arguments of the representatives of the PiS, the party supposedly prosocial, were surprising. We've heard that in quarantine, you have to work remotely, not hang around. Mr Latos did not believe that not all work could be done remotely. I do not know, sir, whether you have ever tried to work and at the same time take care of children under the same quarantine. I do. I assure you, it was a miracle. Nor did you accept our amendment restoring the original wording of the article. 37a Criminal Code. So PiS wants to put doctors in prison, and you're only temporarily introducing an ablation for the pandemic. Forgive me, but in the assurance of Minister Gadomiski that Zbigniew Ziobro will soon prepare better regulations, I certainly do not believe. The Prime Minister called for national unity and solidarity. We also call to her, especially since PiS has been doing everything in his power to fight Poles and Poles for years. You've been pissing on doctors, on nurses, on teachers. I hope you understand today how much they need, how much they sacrifice, and how much respect they deserve. Human solidarity is based on respect. Some of the provisions of this law make you afraid, however, that you are slowly preparing to be blamed for your failures on health workers. I hope that doesn't happen. Today, however, there is another social group you want to beat up. Today, your non-constitutional tribunal is to issue a judgment on the possibility of abortion in the event of severe fetal defects. From now on, you want to force women in the middle of an epidemic - using the fact that we're all busy with something else - to give birth to those children who will come into the world with brainlessness, with severe incurable defects. This is a sentence for half of Polish society. As a matter of fact, most nurses, doctors, and teachers are women. If you really are in favour of social solidarity, then we call on you to come to your senses, to withdraw this proposal before it is too late. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u10	Thank you, Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Creating anti-epidemic laws only during the pandemic is another example of the government seeking a place for a well only when everything is burning and falling down. Plus, he's not always looking where he's supposed to be. The place where he shouldn't be looking is a bill that talks about increasing the State Sanitary Inspection of two directors. We didn't demand that. We demand that they be in the State Sanitary Inspection for additional employment, so that there is additional remuneration of workers, so that there are people who are exempt from state administration. Hasn't the government learned anything from its mistakes since spring? It is said to be an excellent bill, and so many amendments were made to it, which were tabled by the Law and Justice Club during the second reading. We demand that the bill contains guarantees of criminal liability - within the framework of a good Samaritan clause - for physiotherapists and laboratory diagnostics. And in this respect, we are putting in your hands the Marshal of Corrections. We also make an amendment (the bell) that says 150% the average remuneration in all healthcare units for the duration of the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u12	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u13	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This law is not a miracle cure for all the problems that arise from an epidemic in our country, but it is saving the situation and making up for losses in supplementing decisions that should have been taken some time ago. However, this does not change the fact that I wanted to thank all the Members who worked on this committee for a very long time and who tabled substantive amendments. This was the case for every club, including Members, non-members. Thank you for the approach which, I hope, will also give better solutions when working on this law in the Senate. Among other things, I am referring to the amendment concerning the inclusion of voluntary firefighters in the fire department with this privilege that when they perform their duties and fight the epidemic, if they are quarantined and isolated, they will be able to count on a 100-percent allowance in case of possible infection. The fact that this amendment was accepted, also on recommendation, with the support of the government, was surprising, but good. On the other hand, after an examination of this provision today, we see that if there is still good will of all clubs and governments on this issue, it is still worth improving in the Senate. Namely, it is about the part that concerns volunteer firefighters who are engaged in the occupation of the farmer. Here we must certainly make some changes so that all these professions are equal, evenly treated. We will work on this, and we are hoping for the same favours as we did when we were working on the committee, too, I hope, in the vote. Of course, we cared as a club of Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 that all competitions that fight the epidemic should be treated in the same way, in the same way they were rewarded. That's why we're filing our hero bonus bill. We're sorry she didn't get the support. It is in minority proposals and we ask for support. We believe that attention should be paid to everyone, including the grey staff who walks around these hospitals, who walks around these medicinal products and is also exposed to infection. These are the people who do the electrical work, these are all those who make sure that this medicinal product works. We remember about them, these people are remembered by the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party Club - Kukiz15. We'll call upon them here, in the Seym, and in the Senate. We very much ask you to support our proposals. In our amendments, we called for issues that, among others, depended on. the nationwide union of nurses and midwives, the medical community. We drew attention to the issues relating to the lists of persons to be transmitted by the Chambers, as well as the mentioned restoration of the previous wording of the article. 37a Criminal Code. That's what the doctors are after. The issue regulated by this law, called the good Samaritan clause, does not solve this problem, which has been signalled from the very beginning. We would also like the private health system to be included in the fight against the epidemic. Not much, we would like people who can't get to the doctor and heal in a normal way, to have the opportunity to take advantage of it. Here in a series of questions I will try to ask the Minister, because there was an interesting discussion in the committee, even though our amendment did not receive support. I would like to ask this question in a series of questions, because I believe that we have a chance to achieve good solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u14	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, also the parliamentary club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u15	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I think that yesterday's debate and the atmosphere of the last hours and days have shown that we are still much ahead of us when it comes to a certain verification of attitudes. Today, all parties represented in the Sejm should identify one enemy. Not looking for each other, not each other, not arguing with each other, just... The enemy is one, this enemy is today threatening Poland's coronavirus. And I think that the lesson from the process of dealing with these laws is that we are aware of the urgent need to look for solutions in advance, in a spirit of dialogue and agreement. On the one hand, the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers. We have also pointed out for several days that there is an urgent need for the President to be involved in planning the next steps. It is about rational planning, so that it is not the same as with this law - looking for solutions urgently, quickly. Today is the time to look together for solutions, prospectively. The idea is to prepare Poles for some strategy, thoughtful, rational and discussed, not such an ad hoc search for solutions. I think this is today's lesson that comes from working on this bill, but also from certain shortcomings that have been with us in the last weeks or months, but there's no point in coming back to it. Today we have more weeks ahead of us, months of fighting the pandemic. Hopefully, they will take place in a spirit of cooperation, not further inventing accusations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u16	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke will speak remotely on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. Do we have a connection? There it is. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We propose in the law after the article. 21 introduce Article. 21a as follows: Starting from the second semester of the 2020/21 school year, primary and secondary schools are divided into gender classes. In vocational and special schools, this depends on the director's decision. Implementation shall be entrusted to the Minister for Education and Science. What the hell are you doing out there? But let me hear it. The essence of this bill is obvious. The gender breakdown will reduce the interaction between students, which will significantly reduce the possibility of coravirus infection and transfer of coronavirus between students. But it also has a far-reaching aspect. Well, it's about the experiment of co-education. We're the only environment in which there's co-education. For all civilized nations there is no co-education, because the level of co-educational schools is lower, significantly lower, as research shows, than the level of male and female schools. We can see that the level of teaching is falling dramatically at the moment, among others. because of that. Coeducion also caused another tragic phenomenon, namely the emergence of peer marriages, which fall apart after several years, and sometimes even after several years. Therefore, it would be good to combine one with the other and in the fight against the virus to correct this error, to descend from the blind path on which education entered several decades ago as part of an experiment that unfortunately continues until today. Thank you for your attention. The best argument against democracy is the existence of Janusz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u18	Thank you, sir. Mr Robert Winnicki, also the Polish Confederation's Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u19	Mrs. Marshal! This is one of the many amendments that we are making in this second reading - we hope that they will not be, like the previous 16 amendments, rejected by the High House - also in the fight against the coronavirus or in the fight against the consequences of government policy. Ladies and gentlemen, in fact, there are two models in the world that have been applied by the States to the epidemic of Coronavirus. The first model is the Chinese model. The Chinese model assumes total isolation and quarantine for all who are actually in the transmission area. At the beginning of this epidemic, the Chinese shut down tens of millions of people and now apply very far-reaching restrictions, only that China counts 1,400 million people and they can afford to do so. In fact, no other country in the world can afford such action, whether it is a sensible policy or not, overrides the profits. In fact, all other countries in the world, especially European countries, whether it is Poland, whether it is Sweden, have adopted the model that applies to us, that is, the model of the progressive transmission of Coronavirus. This is a model that assumes that this virus is spreading gradually in the population. Now it is only a matter of no restrictions or of what restrictions are applied. And what we've been raising for months is a statement that the policy that the government has applied is more cost-effective than the ongoing epidemic or virus transmission. Since the beginning of the Confederacy, it is clear that there are three things to focus on. Firstly, the protection of the weakest and the most vulnerable, i.e. seniors and those who are ill, whose immunity for some reason is structurally very reduced. Secondly, with full support from the health system. And thirdly, it takes a lot of money to make money because in the case of treatment, prevention, health care system in Poland. And you're doing the opposite. The state acts in such a way that it is focused on closing everyone, on total social isolation. The state operates in such a way that the health system has not been prepared for this autumn for six months. We said it was going to be a disaster. Around each case of a positive test for Coronavirus is the situation that you have created today. It is about the inefficient health system, for which not only the PiS, but also the SLD, which today wants to gag the debate on this issue, and the Platform, which has ruled for so many years. You are all responsible for the systemic health collapse that today, unfortunately, at this time, gives the results it gives. From this point I ask the Minister, I ask the government: How are people worse than COVID patients who die today because they do not receive care because of heart disease, because of cancer, for a number of other diseases that kill thousands of people every day, and not on a monthly or two basis, just every day? Today we must start a real debate. If the Prime Minister wants to debate, then start this real debate. Please consider such voices as the Great Barrington Declaration as the Krzysztof Szczawiński model. The real debate on Coronavirus is also a debate about what is happening in Sweden, the way it is going. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a debate on the costs, including the cost of human life, not only economic, but also the cost of human life, because we need to protect the weakest, focus all our energy on the health system and earn money. If you shut down the economy again, what you're doing de facto, announcing the red zone since Saturday, or considering it, if you do the second lockdown, then we won't make money and people will die even more than we have ever been. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u20	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. This is the last time to get on the list. Corvina can be heard. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. The first question will be asked by Marek Owa, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u21	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Among the key amendments rejected by law and justice politicians is an amendment providing a statutory guarantee of 200 percent remuneration for all medical workers - doctors, nurses, rescuers - employed on the front line in the fight against COVID-19. Unfortunately, this amendment did not gain acceptance by the government and politicians of PiS at night, moreover, the Minister had doubts as to whether this supplement should be paid in the first level hospitals at all. Today it is paid under the order of the Minister. But, ladies and gentlemen, the fate of health professionals cannot depend on one Minister's signature. We need legal guarantees. That's why I believe that the hours since the committee's work ended have allowed [[♪ The bell ♪]] PiS politicians will, however, find out and support our amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u22	Thank you, sir. The question will be asked by Mr Andrzej Szejna, the left-wing club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u23	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I was very impressed by the meeting with the Świętokrzyskie Board of the National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics. The nursing environment is deeply concerned about the plan to transfer funds from OWU, so-called. Zembala, to the overall pool of funds transferred to employers for medical benefits. An army of nurses and midwives working overpowering the Ministry of Health may consequently reduce salaries in the peak of diseases by up to 1/3. In my opinion, they should earn at least the national average. So I ask, do you want to deceive these brave women? Today you agree to 100% The COVID supplement, and tomorrow, quietly, you're gonna take away what they won today? Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about imaginary lines of defence of health of Poles and Poles. After all, the PiS government has ruined all the defense lines in recent months. Suffocating hospitals are only starting to work when taking patients with COVID or in an emergency. The rest of you might be looking forward to it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You gave us a Swedish variant without preparation and without anesthesia.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u24	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u25	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I'm going back to the subject of involving a private health system in treatment during the course of the Coronavirus epidemic. Namely, the Coalition Club Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 at the committee meeting proposed an amendment giving the possibility of reimbursement by the NFZ of an account issued by a private doctor, a private medical entity where for various reasons it is not possible to use public health services. The Minister, recommending that this amendment be rejected, said that this possibility already exists. I would very much ask the Minister to return to this subject and present what is the scale, what are the procedures and whether it is possible to regulate this issue systematically so that all Poles learn that if they cannot carry out a planned study or treat themselves with e.g. because of the closure of the hospital and they want to use the services of a private hospital... How can they receive a refund of this account by the NFZ? Please answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation. Remotely, I get it, right? You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u27	I bow down. What is it this time? Ladies and gentlemen, I will continue with the questions. I wanted to explain that co-education was introduced in Europe as an experiment. We are the only bastion in which co-education exists. All civilized countries are diseducated, specialized. Boys and girls are developing their abilities at a different pace. Coedulation inhibits the development of children. That is why there has been a drastic reduction in the level of teaching. We're seeing it clearly right now. Co-education is not the only reason to lower the level of education, but it is a very important reason. I'm not going to mention all the reasons. I think the risk of coronavirus is a good excuse to end this experiment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u28	Thank you, sir. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u29	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Uncertainty is probably the feeling that occurs in every family: uncertainty about subsequent sharpenings, lockdown, uncertainty of entrepreneurs, uncertainty of teachers, children in schools, parents, uncertainty about rehabilitation, uncertainty of people with disabilities, uncertainty of patients and uncertainty of all of us. All these problems will probably not be solved by this bill, which is obvious, but we can ensure security. at least a specific group of people. Hence my question: Will the Minister, the Government, most of them agree with the guarantee of a 100-percent supplement for all health professionals? It's not just about people who are delegated to fight the coronavirus, it's also about people who normally work in a hospital on the board, whether they're employed in a different form. Would you agree to a 100% benefit paid to health care professionals from the first day of isolation or quarantine, regardless of the form of cooperation, e.g. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And those who work on contracts, too? Do you have a plan to take care of patients not only with COVID, but also those who are waiting for their planned surgeries, oncology, prevention or other diseases? That was the plan. Question: "When will you present it?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u30	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. Mrs Sowinska is not here. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For a long time, I have been flooded with questions from children's home workers, from educators from school and education centers. We know that in many such places in Poland the situation is difficult, unfortunately among educators there are also outbreaks of infection with a coronavirus. And using this opportunity today, I wanted to ask if there is any planned help for this professional group, otherwise very important from the point of view of ensuring continuity of care, education and learning for a large group of young people across the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u32	Thank you very much. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u33	Ladies and gentlemen! You're creating procedures that exaggerate this pandemic in the tables. This is a ministerial instruction, coming from the official website of the Ministry, on the qualification of deaths. And it clearly states that if a patient is reported if we have a patient who died, aged older, with coronary disease, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, but has also been tested for COVID and the result was positive, then COVID-19 is used as the primary cause of death. This way, of course, we can conquer the statistics. Question: "Why are you doing this?" After all, if we were acting in the same way with regard to flu, angina, colds, we'd have the same statistics on deaths and cases of angina, flu, etc. You're inflating this monster instead of fighting it. You inflate it to such a size that you've already lost your true proportions and focused all your attention on one threat, disregarding all the others. Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u34	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u35	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill, this bill, is supposed to create a collective illusion that anyone in the government of law and justice is in control of anything. It is an illusion, first of all, because - and this is what we talked about at the committee meeting - some of the solutions are not feasible, for example. verification of several hundred thousand persons engaged in medical professions by chambers of these professions. It'll cause another day of chaos. Secondly, there are no provisions that significantly strengthen key institutions. That is why we have tabled amendments strengthening district and voivodship sanitary inspections both financially and personnelly. The government says they don't like it. Minister, what's the alternative here? Because to say we don't like it, it's very simple, but these institutions need to be strengthened today, and that's what's missing. But there are provisions under which the extreme Left is also signed, e.g. twice punishing entrepreneurs, which is gonna be double deadly during the epidemic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that's what I want to ask you, Minister. How are you gonna save the economy if you're gonna double-punish people who are entrepreneurial and active? It's just not gonna work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u36	Thank you, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u37	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions. The first question concerns yesterday, actually today's committee meeting. The authorities of nurses, midwives, doctors are talking about a huge problem with providing data that will later be the basis for targeting specific individuals. How do you intend to agree with these regional authorities on the way in which the data is transmitted and the time in which you will do so? And the other thing. Minister, many thousands of people have been working in health care since the start of the epidemic since March. There is no specific support in these solutions for those groups that put their lives and health at risk every day. We offered a hero bonus. Ladies and gentlemen! It's time to finally make up for these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u39	Thank you. Dear Marshal! I have one specific question. It is related to what the Prime Minister has announced. Yesterday I showed him a recording from months ago, and now we have this statement from yesterday. The Prime Minister said that he was wondering and would recommend that the whole of Poland become a red zone. There is a saying that if you repeat a thousand times a lie, it becomes true, so I understand that the Prime Minister has already repeated a few thousand times a sentence: this is not a lockdown. You've been closing pubs, restaurants since hours. 21, because that's where people gather. You close the saunas, solariums, swimming pools, gyms, because that's where people gather. One of your ministers even said that the gyms will be closed, they are closed because there are low ceilings. I don't know if you know this, but there are spacing between the machines in the gyms just so that people, if there was a problem, wouldn't touch other people. This is where you're sitting. You're closer to each other than you'd ever been to the gym. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question has to do with the red zone, and it's concrete: Is the pilot flying with you?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u40	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u41	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The two greatest sins of this law, sins really very heavy and very serious. First of all, you've completely neglected the medical staff who works on contracts. Today, a paramedic who is trying to save our lives and gets quarantined, and works on a contract, doesn't have a zloty for isolation or later disease. And it happens that he first has 10 days of quarantine, then he just spends 10 days on sick leave, and when he works on the contract, the sickness insurance gets only after 30 days. And really, Minister, we need to change that if we want people to save our lives at this difficult time. Secondly, complete underfunding of the health care centre and failing to ensure that the holidays are completed there. You have no idea how to do this, and it happened that the health department has become a narrow throat, they don't even have time to fill in the database. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You also need to fund the health center, and you need to make sure it's filled with vacations. In Wielkopolska today there is an urgent need for 30 additional pairs of hands to work, which are not there. There's no one to work with. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u42	Thank you, Member. Mr Jacek Protas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u43	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister yesterday in a fiery speech encouraged everyone to cooperate in this difficult, pandemic period - difficult for all of us. They're words. What about actions? It proposes in the Act that the Minister of Health reserve the right to dismiss, arbitraryly, the directors of hospitals - the directors of hospitals, which are subject to local government. Is this a hand in cooperation? Is this a building of trust in local governments that are constantly modernising, maintaining hospitals and responsible for their functioning? Prime Minister, this isn't the way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u44	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u45	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, this bill is intended to improve the functioning of health care, but the question is why you do not want to introduce these allowances and salaries for people who are on the front line of the fight against the coronavirus and are most at risk, i.e. employees of the SOR, workers of the emergency room, ambulance workers, lab workers. I don't think we should be saving up here. Therefore, my question is this: Do you foresee a change in the state budget for 2020 in this situation? Because once again, I want to stress: today we are at war with the koravirus, not with any outside invader, just a war with the koravirus, and perhaps it is worth to transfer funds primarily to fight the pandemic, not to buy tanks, planes, cannons and guns, because today we do not need it for anything. And second question: What measures [[♪ The bell ♪]] are foreseen - because the Prime Minister spoke of it yesterday - for the purchase of vaccines against the coronavirus? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u46	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u47	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Gentlemen of Ministers! Yesterday, the Prime Minister reached out to the opposition, and tonight the parliamentary majority rejected most of the opposition's amendments. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced the creation of some enigmatic corps of senior protection, today seniors, like for several months, have been dying of fear in their homes because they were told not to leave these houses. They're dying of fear of an ambulance coming to them or a doctor coming to see them, or there's gonna be an emergency pressure surge for them at the hospital when they get a stroke, a heart attack, or just as it happens in older people. Yesterday, a lot was said here that opposition is politics, and most of the Sejm is substantive work. And as part of this substantive work today, the Member [[♪ The bell ♪]] Badness requests that we immediately proceed to the third reading, without knowing the corrections that have been made and at night and at second reading. Thank you for this kind of merriment, sir. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u48	Thank you, Member. Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club. [[Game in the O.R.]] And yet I would very much ask our dear parliamentarians to move these talks into clouaries, because it is very disturbing, hindering the work. Thank you very much. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u49	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! One might ask: If it's so good, why is it so bad? Patients, especially oncology units, who today are most exposed to COVID, unfortunately do not have access to certain services in their place of residence. The promised contract, which was to be signed with the hospital in Zgorzelec for radiotherapy, unfortunately failed. Maybe that's what we should be doing, too, to ensure safety for all those who are sick not only with COVID but also with other diseases. Air Rescue. Maybe instead of airplanes for the military, we can upgrade it to Air Rescue, buy helicopters that we can transport the sick, so that people from Jelenia Góra can get to Wrocław pretty quickly, because today, only because the state is not building any roads and is not looking for solutions to reach by ambulance from Jelenia Góra, if the highway is not standing, it takes 2 hours. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That is why I appeal: let's do something for those people who are not only sick with COVID. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u51	Mr. Chairman of the Committee on National Security and Defence Affairs. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You've done a lot of unnecessary things for six months. You fought the LGBT plague, you chased independent judges, lawyers, you fought elections, you fought for stools, you banned abortion and you funded the propaganda of success, while the virus spilled across the country. Why haven't you done one thing that countries like South Korea and Norway have done that have managed to control the epidemic? You haven't done a common free test that detects asymptomatic viral outbreaks. How is it that Members of the Sejm return money for tests on COVID-19, and the citizen must ask when he wants to take the test? He needs to call one or the other doctor, maybe somebody will kindly let him, and eventually he'll go privately, he'll pay, and you won't get that in the statistics. By your slowness and neglect, you have led thousands of Poles and Poles to die now. Instead of listening to Trump, sometimes it's worth listening to WHO. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Tests, tests, tests. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u52	Mr Paweł Krutul, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u53	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We're approaching another lockdown. Therefore, as a representative of the Podlaskie voivodship, I ask the Prime Minister, the Minister, the Podlaskie voivodeship of Mr Paszkowski, to open three field hospitals in the largest cities of the voivodship, i.e. in Bialystok, Suwałki and Lomza. Sports halls, city stadiums or holiday resorts are available for development, which are now empty in the Podlaskie Voivodeship. So that I ask you to set up these places as soon as possible, in order to primarily implement prevention and relieve the individuals that are now dealing with patients with COVID. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The effective fight against the pandemic will depend on an effective strategy. The government bet on a strategy of gigantic mania, some show action. In the spring it was a giant Antonov with masks that turned out to be useless, and today we read the article and perhaps the government will have to be ashamed of it. Now we're talking about a hospital at the National Stadium, and this is another example of gigantomania. In the meantime, you have to bet on social forces. There are offers: here you can create places for the sick - said the President of Warsaw. You don't want to hear an opposition that almost with one voice says, put on human capital, give double pay to doctors, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Bet on insurance. We're asking for it. Only such a strategy will be effective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u56	Thank you. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u57	Minister! Enough of the lies that you've prepared the country to fight the epidemic. That's not true. The situation is dramatic. There are no beds, no doctors, no nurses. Already today, patients die in ambulances that go from hospital to hospital, bounce back. There's no ventilators. Already today, patients are temporarily disconnected from devices to connect others. I'm asking you where these ventilators are. A gun dealer? You make decisions that are illogical. You opened up the one-name hospitals you closed down. Now you're opening up field hospitals. You've wasted your time, you've huffed your money, and you've put your patients' health at risk. Why haven't you created an IT system that coordinates hospital work and resource relocation so far? Why? Why don't you go after your friends for bad decisions, hustle money? Today we have a wave, a virus disease curve, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I thought you said she was gonna be okay. Your thinking is flattened and turned into a virus, a virus of hatred, incompetence and non-cooperation, because you were supposed to cooperate, and today you are rejecting the best of our amendments. 90% our night work amendments have been rejected, good amendments for citizens. Thank you. That's what your propaganda looks like - viral science. [[Applause]] Screaming and not true.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u58	Thank you, Member. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u59	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The feelings with which Poles and Poles wake up every day are fear and anxiety about our loved ones. Polish people and Poles lost their fundamental trust in power. Our control with Mr Ionski was not an indictment, it was a call in the wilderness. [[Applause]] With Mr Ionski, we asked constantly where the ventilators are, why you overpay, why you buy one at the price of two ventilators, why you don't test the DPS where the strategy is. Today we learn that a circular was created at the Ministry of Health, which was sent by the former Deputy Minister. No contracts, no records - except for simple Exel - what we bought and who it came to. Ladies and gentlemen! That's not gonna happen anymore. The Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition has tabled an amendment. All your orders will have to be placed in the Public Procurement Bulletin. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Enough of this mismanagement. We're gonna look at your hands and we're gonna find every dollar embezzled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u60	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This law does not solve all problems of Polish health service. Before the rulers, an urgent answer to the question of what to do about the deterioration of patients' access to medical services. As far as access to family doctors is concerned, it is getting longer and worse. The availability of specialists is even worse. It's very bad for an NFZ imaging diagnosis, and another hospital stops performing scheduled surgeries and closes in front of patients. There are also no solutions to the problem of bottlenecks in the diagnosis of COVID. Sick people with symptoms can't get through to doctors and paramedics, and when they're on their way to smear, they're in a couple of hours' queues. Did anyone at the Ministry of Health ask themselves how many seniors with symptoms didn't reach the extraction point because they simply couldn't physically? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u62	Thank you. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u63	Dear Marshal! Yesterday, the Prime Minister told us that we should be united in the fight against the COVID. Meanwhile, the committee rejected the amendments to strengthen the health care system to protect us from the COVID. She rejected the amendments on child care allowances for adult carers. She refused to restore trade on Sunday, which could save thousands of jobs. Finally, she also rejected the 200% guarantee amendments salaries for all health professionals. But she also rejected the amendment, which gives the opportunity to create a 10-billion-dollar fund that would allow Poles to be widely vaccinated against influenza. Today it's only 4% of our countrymen and 75% of our countrymen. The population recommends the European Union. Italy, France vaccinated against influenza 70% their citizens. Why didn't Poland do it? Why don't you accept our amendments? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The second thing is tests - at least 100,000. tests a day. I would like to tell you in the last sentence that Poland is in 24th place in Europe with the smallest number of tests per million inhabitants. This needs to be changed, accept our amendments if we are to fight COVID in solidarity. Thank you. [[9Applause)]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u64	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 20 In the fifth amendment, a solution was adopted which provides for the possibility of receiving 100 per cent sickness benefit for members of the Volunteer Fire Service who are involved in rescue operations and therefore have COVID disease or are in quarantine. However, no solution was adopted which would provide the same compensation for members of TSOs who are farmers and are insured at the Social Insurance Agricultural Fund. Here at the moment there is so-called. COVID allowance of 50% minimum wage. Maybe this road could be repaired in the course of further work. And second question to the government: What financial resources will the government send to county hospitals in connection with additional tasks resulting from the fight against COVID-19? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammar, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u67	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Does the government conduct analyses and studies of the impact of pandemics on health risks other than COVID? Anybody, for example. examines how pandemics affect the mental health of Poles and Poles? In Poland, 6 000 are recorded annually. suicide. Canadian research on COVID lockdown shows that an increase in unemployment by 1 percentage point implies the same increase in suicides. Is there such research in Poland? Because the state, the government, you plan to increase unemployment at 5%. per year. You shut down gyms and fitness clubs, you don't know why. There were no virus outbreaks in the gyms, and according to the US government CDC agency, maintaining physical activity during the pandemic is desirable and beneficial for health, including mental health. And yes - right at the fitness clubs. Is that how any of you think about it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u68	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u69	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In accordance with the provisions of the Act, the professional chambers of the medical profession are required to provide the details of their members who may be assigned to fight the coronavirus. In order to determine this, we need to collect a number of data that these chambers do not have at the moment. They've already talked about it. They've called it in. According to the bill, they'll have seven days to do it. It is already known that this is not possible in such a short time. And two questions. Do you really think those people who are supposed to be treating us right now are supposed to be doing data gathering, emailing and phone calls to their members? Note here: The Left has already proposed its solutions, commitment to the fight against the pandemic call centers, which can support health care, but can also be useful in situations such as the one proposed by the Act. And then there's the second line. Perhaps it is not at all a matter of directing anyone to this front of the fight against pandemic, but of shifting the burden of responsibility (the Bell) to doctors, nurses and other medical professions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u70	Mrs Iwona Hartwich, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u71	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a very serious case. You will lead the disabled to die in their homes with their guardians. Please help this group immediately. I get dramatic calls from parents who can't just shop and go to a doctor because they have nothing to do with the severely handicapped kids they're at home with. From March onwards, ILOS should be in contact with these parents by phone and not by any means throughout Poland. Mr Morawiecki's propaganda agrees, agrees 100% But it doesn't agree with reality. So please and I ask: Where is the specific support for parents of disabled children, for families in which there are people with disabilities? Where's the support for working parents? 'Cause there's parents like that, too. [[♪ The bell ♪]] children with disabilities who work. They didn't even... You don't have money for benefits at least for them. There should be money for parents who heroically agree to take care of the disabled child and work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u72	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Olichwer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The justification of the PiS Act states that during the epidemic, criminal liability should be excluded for certain acts committed by medical practitioners when medicinal measures are taken to combat epidemics, e.g. in the event of the performance of benefits by persons who would not have provided those benefits under non-epidemic conditions. In my opinion, these records are vague and can cause us to be treated alongside well-qualified doctors as well amateurs. And some time ago, you wanted to bring doctors from abroad. Ladies and gentlemen! Consider whether this record will not open Pandora's can in a moment's time, and someone in panic will not have any more ideas, e.g. concerning education that in school due to a pandemic teacher will be able to replace [[♪ The bell ♪]] a parent or a student, and a priest an altar boy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u74	Mr Adam Szłapka, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u75	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have absolutely special time. This particular time requires special solutions, which we understand, and that is why none of us have avoided hard work in the committee on this bill. On the other hand, it is absolutely unacceptable to use this particular situation to introduce solutions aimed at solving personal issues. There is nothing to justify the possibility for the Minister to make arbitrary decisions on the dismissal of hospital directors at all levels, including local hospitals, in the law. Everyone is involved in the fight against the pandemic: doctors, doctors, local government officials, hospital directors. And you want to introduce a solution that allows the hospital director to be arbitraryly removed. Please indicate at least one hospital director who sabotaged his work during this period of fighting the pandemic. This is an unacceptable solution, as it was unacceptable to use this situation in such purchases [[♪ The bell ♪]] Masks or ventilators. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u76	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Sławomir Gadomski will answer the questions raised in the first place by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u77	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Very little time to answer, but perhaps at first a brief reflection about yesterday. First of all, I wanted to express my heartfelt thanks for yesterday's work, thanks maybe first at the hands of the applicants of this key project that we were working on, but also at the hands of all the applicants, because it seems to me that an important part of these projects submitted by the opposition, we have also implemented an important part of the solutions, in the case of the Left project, we have implemented practically the entire law into the content of the law proposed by Law and Justice. Yeah, well, thank you very much. But thank you also for your constructive cooperation. This may not be seen today from this speaker, I understand that on this speaker a slightly different character of speech must or you want to apply, but yesterday's cooperation was constructive, and that is how I really feel about it. We have had enough time for a substantive discussion and thank you very much for this discussion. The greatest energy on this speaker now, when asking questions, was shown by Members who unfortunately were not with us yesterday. Well, I get it, they slept, had enough time to prepare for these questions and show that energy... But Minister... ...but I'm glad those who are asked the substantive questions. Those who were sitting here were... I'm so happy for you. I'm worried that the ones that weren't there aren't. That's the truth. Ladies and gentlemen! A brief reference to speeches and discussions, because I think it will also give a foundation for answers to specific questions. Doctor's wages. Many times from this speech we have said that we regulate with regard to one part of doctors, we do not regulate with regard to others. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already settled for everyone. This law increases wages by 100% 200%, to doctors who are posted by voivods to work. But the same solutions that were previously in the bill, before that, it was 150%. , now 200%, the same regulations practically from the very beginning of the pandemic have been applied to all doctors, to medical personnel who have been involved in the fight... Legal solutions are completely different. Mr Owl, I ask you to remain calm. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: ...who was involved in the fight against COVID. Now also those instructions issued by the Minister of Health, which were carried out by the President of the National Health Fund, will be changed and the 200% Those doctors who joined the fight, or the medical staff that turns on, of course, will get it. The second thread is the issue of the 5 billion amendment to the special-purpose fund. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not need an additional fund. We do. The Fund was established - Anti-Action Fund COVID-19. Some, a significant part of this fund was available to the Minister of Health, practically this part, you can say, unlimited. Of course, we have planned that this year it is 10 billion, but by consulting and agreeing further tranches from this project, we clearly have the assurance that we will be able to use it according to our needs. So that here there is no need to create an additional fund, because we more in this fund that we have, we already have in these plans today, for the next year too. A large discussion, including in the committee and here in the context of questions, concerned the Penal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, this solution that we have introduced in the law is the solution that we discussed so much yesterday, which is consistent and consistent with the intention, as expected by the General Medical Council to exclude the effects of the Penal Code during the pandemic. So that it seems to me, and even I am convinced, that we are really pursuing environmental demands in this area. Very synthetically, I will answer the specific questions you have asked, the questions that relate to the content of this law. Let me not answer any other questions. If there is a will, then of course we can answer in writing. The private treatment system, Mr Klimczak's question, is perhaps a matter of misunderstanding in committee. The private system has already declared itself to be involved today, declared itself to be involved in the fight against COVID, declared that it is capable of e.g. in the field of private hospitals, allocate up to 1/4 beds to fight against COVID. I understand that this discussion concerns something else, that is, support by the private treatment system of non-COVID. It seems to me that the solution proposed by you is very broad and difficult to implement. I think that many elements of this solution, which you are proposing today, reverses the whole system of functioning, the financing of health protection. I think that these are solutions that can be discussed (the bell) but probably not in the mode we are in today, and not in the way of this law, which I think we all agree on, is the answer to the situation that we have. Dear Marshal, may I take your...? Proceed. I understand that no one objects in this regard. There's a lot of questions, everyone's interested in answers. You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you very much. There was a lot of discussion yesterday, and today Mrs Rosa asked about this, about the benefits for people not employed for the contract of employment, in particular for contract holders. We know well that part of health care works in such a formula, but we also know well that it was the choice of these people. These people knew, in calculating that their fiscal burden, their contribution burden, and often a significantly higher rate of remuneration in the form of contracts, are associated with a certain risk. The protection of these persons vis-à-vis persons employed in employment contracts is naturally less. But these people over the years, e.g. they received certain benefits associated with an increased remuneration. That is why today it seems to us that the introduction of additional solutions, the consistency of this with the conditions set out in the Labour Code or in our law for persons employed under a contract of employment, is excessive. Mr Sosnierz asked about statistics on deaths. From the beginning we have one goal: we want to show these statistics fairly. From the beginning, we don't want to lie, and we don't want to pretend today that COVID doesn't exist, and there are no deaths on him. We have tried to define certain requirements, requirements that we did not set ourselves in the office, but, of course, we have developed them together with experts, with national consultants. Their position was that if we have e.g. coronary disease and COVID positive, however, we show this as COVID positive. Do we want to discuss this today? I don't think it matters much today. It is important that these statistics are shown fairly, consistently and actually in accordance with these published rules. Mr Suchoń asked about the double punishment of entrepreneurs, which seems to me to be a violation. We don't want to punish entrepreneurs twice, we don't want to punish them at all. As long as these entrepreneurs comply with the orders, the prohibitions that we introduce at the level of the resolutions of the Council of Ministers or the regulations of the Minister of Health, there will be no penalties. There's no intention here to punish. This is just, you can say, a certain sanction that we actually see as a logical continuation. If the State supports many companies with an anti-crisis shield, if these companies can receive additional public aid, we cannot turn a blind eye to non-compliance with those prohibitions which are extremely important for the whole health system today. Mrs Hennig-Kloska asked, among others. For underfinancing the health care system. It was indeed tabled on yesterday's amendment that would change this system. There's no need to change this system. In the budget for 2021 we planned a huge increase in finance for health care, which is from 1,300 million to over 1,600 million PLN, i.e. over 300 million PLN... Halfway through next year. Next year, January next year. I would also like to point out that this year also large funds for the financing of the State Sanitary Inspection, in particular. for the payment of overtime surcharges, are implemented, for equipment or for infrastructure in health care, from the very beginning these funds are directed there. A few questions, as I remember correctly, Mr Protas and Mr Snapshot concerned the dismissal of the director. We're not talking about canceling. First of all, we're talking about suspension, and it's just for a pandemic. We discussed this yesterday at the committee meeting, there's no appeal here. But when it comes to this sanction, let us not treat it as something that we are introducing today and immediately change the entire market of directors. This sanction, this rule has been functioning since the start of the pandemic. This provision was already in previous anti-COVID laws and so far the Minister of Health has not shown such determination to use it. Also because the question was, how many directors are going to be exchanged in a moment, we didn't mention any in six months, because we didn't see any reason why we should use this provision. We hope that we will not see these conditions, and indeed the providers will comply with these legal requirements and those instructions that have been introduced. I also call for some consistency in the questions, because it seems to me that this is such a difficult area that the voices themselves are extremely different. Mr Grabarczyk talked about whether it was not a giant hospital building on the national level, and just a moment earlier, Mr Krutul asked for the construction of three field hospitals in Podlasie. However, it seems to me that we are not manifesting either gigantic or unprepared, but we are in the middle, also with regard to what the Prime Minister said, which means we are responding to the needs. There we will build field hospitals and to the extent that we will assess that these really are the necessary needs. Mr Szczerba emotionally told us about the amendment concerning the publication of details of the order outside the mode of the Public Procurement Act in the Public Procurement Bulletin. Yes, we were happy to accept this amendment yesterday, we discussed it, and indeed it seems to us that it is a solution suitable to the solutions that we can actually apply so that this process is as transparent as possible. Several questions concerned infrastructure for testing and carrying out larger-scale tests. I would like to draw attention to one thing: we do not therefore realize perhaps 100, 200,000. Or half a million tests a day because we don't have the resources because we have the resources. We have the funds provided primarily in the COVID fund, because it is from this fund that the tests are financed, we even have the testing infrastructure provided, but we have made some assumptions about who to test. These assumptions are not the result of internal discussion of officials in the Ministry of Health, but of discussions with consultants, discussions with the national consultant Prof. Horban, discussions with the national consultant Prof. Dzierżanowska-Fangrat, with many other consultants with whom we have actually been working since the beginning of the pandemic, and furthermore - we are convinced that our testing strategy is accurate. This percentage of positive tests, which results from the POZ orders, shows that this testing strategy is set in an appropriate way and hit. Hit. Completely hit. Ladies and gentlemen! There were two more questions, one was asked by Mr Tomaszewski - I am sorry, the other I am not able to find - the funds for the county hospitals and the financing of these hospitals at this difficult time. This law does not, of course, regulate this, but from the beginning of the pandemic, increased funding has been directed to hospitals. In the first tranche, this was an increase in hospital lump sums in these entities by 3%, in the second tranche, as I recall, since 1 July 2020, there was a further 3% target. for each billing invoice submitted by that entity. So we're going to increase hospital funding by 6%. due to the increased burden associated with COVID, it was addressed to these entities, including with other support, not only to the government but also to local authorities. It goes on for example. by significantly increasing the funding for infrastructure - in the budget of the Ministry of Health itself under the EU Operational Programme - Infrastructure and environment - we have directed an additional PLN 1 billion, mainly to hospitals, and we know very well from the work of the Coordination Committee that also marshals in the field of regional operational programmes have directed significant resources to these entities and I am only talking about the EU area. Dear Marshal, thank you very much for the extension. Thank you again for yesterday's work, and I hope that we will continue to work in a similar spirit.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur for the committee, Mr Tomasz Latos, will speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In reply to Mr Tomaszewski: yes, there was indeed such an amendment during the committee's work and we, following an analysis, considered it worth supporting, as did the earlier amendment tabled by the Civic Coalition, which concerned the city guard. It seemed reasonable to do so, so in answer to the Member's question on CSR: it is clear that it is now necessary to go further, i.e. to adapt it to other provisions, and therefore the comment on the CRUs is fully justified. No doubt it is worth leaning on. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, looking at everything that was going on yesterday, and bringing in what was happening today, let me be honest with you, I am in a bit of a shock, even though after all these years in the Sejm nothing should really surprise me anymore. After that yesterday, of course also full of disputes, but wise discussion, there were ideas here at least cool, because it's hard to treat the idea of turning the Sejm into a field hospital. I do not know whether this can be taken seriously, perhaps it was - such a question and suggestion or some other false information that was presented - taken somewhat unseriously by one of the Members. I'm sorry to say that. The Minister has already talked about this, but these... It's for the real ones, sir. I think the Minister has already spoken of the real things, because the false ones may not be worth talking about. It's just a pity that people who are mostly in the O.R. worked until hours yesterday. 0.45 and there are today, while those who did not work, came, asked some isolated question, shouting from the platform, and then came out. Well, that's the climate. You can say, quoting a well-known Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! I just wanted to say one more thing. I think something like a gentleman's agreement is extremely important. The Left amendment, two amendments, I understand, something else has been noticed, it is worth correcting. We also have one amendment. The coalition of Poland 100 percent fulfilled this gentleman's agreement that we do not give anything in second reading. Anything you could report, we reported yesterday. However, you will admit that the 16 amendments of the Civic Coalition, the 16 amendments of the Confederation are far from a minor adjustment to what was yesterday, and it is far from informal - I admit - an agreement which we all agreed on yesterday. Well, that's too bad. I thought that in politics, certain general principles should apply, too, when people make a deal, they should keep it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u80	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. During the discussion, a request was made that the Sejm proceed to the third reading without referring the draft law back to the committee, of course after serving the table of amendments. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Objection. There's an objection, right? In that case, we will vote on this matter in the voting block, and I am now declaring a time-out. 13.30. Your marshal, just one correction at the end. But I've already announced a recess, sir. Yes? Time out? I thought your marshal hadn't announced it yet. I've announced a recess. I'm closing. But a corrigendum to what, sir? Mr. Chairman was kind to say there was any agreement. There was no deal. But I'm sorry... And not enough... There was no deal. There was no deal, absolutely. That's not enough. But who was the chairman talking to? Because not with me. And I... The amendments were, however, agreed that we would not pass this on to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]] But I'm sorry, I've announced a recess. I want you to move the arrangements into the cockroaches. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 min 53 hours 14 min 42]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with a quorum. Please press any button to confirm your presence at the meeting. 449 Members voted. I'm declaring a quorum. Formal applications have been submitted. Mr Cezary Tomczyk, Civic Coalition. One minute. How about a minute and a half, Marshal? One. How's one-and-a-half okay? One. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u81	One, okay. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to make a formal request for an hour's break. 16. Here we go. Oh... So that the Minister of Health can tell us here and now how it happened that today we have a disease record, over 12,000. Get sick... And tomorrow it's gonna be new. ...and at the same time it was made by 10,000. Less tests. This is the situation we're dealing with. This is a mockery of you, of Poles and of everything that is happening. Less tests, more diseases. More rest. High Izbo! As far as the issue of this law is concerned, there is no doubt that it was worth working on. Many bulls have been eliminated, e.g. the one according to which doctors the day after the birth of the child could be summoned to infectious wards. They won't be able to be summoned anymore. Thanks to the Coalition's amendment, you'll no longer be able to buy ventilators from an arms dealer... No, it isn't, sir. ...because all transactions will be placed in the Public Information Bulletin. Thank you very much, sir. Just one sentence, Marshal. This bill will be systematically amended in the Senate, because the High House must come out of a good law, not just any law. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u82	Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u83	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Please fill in the agenda for information from the representative of the government for: equal treatment. At the moment he is sitting so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal and she's about to pass a sentence on women. It's not the so-called court. It's the tribunal. A sentence which will force women to be born regardless of the state of the fetus, which makes women incubators, which will lead to misery many Polish families, which in fact will destroy prenatal medicine. What are you talking about, Member? Madame, this is not a formal proposal. So that we ask the Sejm to lean on a problem that affects thousands of Polish families and does not pretend that there is no topic. You didn't have the courage to discuss it from the Parliamentary Speaker, so have the courage to call the plenipotentiary. Let him tell us how the Poles are treated unevenly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u84	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left, with a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to reiterate the formal request that the Seniors Convention be held and decide to allow us to take the floor of the only candidate for the Ombudsman. Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz has been waiting for a procedure in which we will be able to vote and find out if we are actually able to choose Adam Bodnar's successor as High Chamber. Those few... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr President, do you realise that this is against the rules of procedure? Because it's against the rules. Well, you're getting the hang of it now. I'm informing you, formal request... There's a possibility... It's not in the rules, but it's not forbidden, it's allowed. There was a formal conclusion. I wanted to finish. Finish it. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] I would ask, Mr. Marshal, that we vote this out, because listening... Mrs Gasiuk, please calm down. ...the only candidate for an ombudsman would feel that the House cares about democracy, and we are all able, without arguing, over political divisions, to decide who will be a ombudsman in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u86	Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm applying for a recess. The break may be short, provided that Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, chairman of the Security Committee, comes here and explains to us what the government is doing regarding the threat of food security of the country caused by the terrible anti-agricultural law, the anti-agricultural five that Mr Kaczyński is pushing today by the Sejm. Yesterday thousands of farmers protested on Polish roads against this lawlessness, against this scoundrel, which the state, the coalition of PiS, Platform, SLD, are trying to carry out against the Polish village. And today, Jarosław Kaczyński, the initiator of this bill, should come to the Sejm and explain to the Sejm... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] In quarantine.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u88	Mr President, what are you saying? He's right. Bullshit. Thank you very much. I understand there are requests for a break. The coalition has filed for a recess. I hope he doesn't file for two days in a minute. So we are going to vote unfortunately for a recess, which will extend the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of ordering a recess, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For - 204, against - 234, holding 12. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Information from the Prime Minister on the state's state of preparation for the growing wave of infections with SARS-CoV-2 and the underlying diseases of COVID-19, as well as the flu virus during the pandemic of Coronavirus. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a motion to reject the information of the President of the Council of Ministers will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. In - 214, against - 231, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We would like to refer to item 6 on the agenda: Report from the Health Committee on Parliamentary Billings: A proposal for a third reading was submitted without referring the draft law to the committee after service of the table of amendments. I will put this proposal to the vote in the light of the opposition. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal for a third reading without referring the bill back to the committee after the table of amendments has been sent, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. Za- 235, against- 211, holding off on two. The Sejm has accepted the motion. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was sent to the ladies and gentlemen for printing No 698. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 698. The Commission also presents minority proposals on which we will vote first. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. In - 15, against - 433, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the second minority application, applicants shall propose after Article. 1 add a new article. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For -190, against - 259, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the third minority application, applicants shall propose after Article. 1 add a new article. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 161, against - 283, he abstained 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 46, against - 274, 126 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 4a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 219, against - 230, with a hold of 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 6th minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 6. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of the 7th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. In - 11, against - 384, 48 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 7th minority proposal to Article. 7 Act on the professions of doctors and dentists propose the applicant in the added paragraph. 2a give a different wording to the entry into the calculation. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 42, against - 228, 179 Members abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 8th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 6a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. For - 223, against - 226, holding off on 2. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 9th minority proposal to Article. The 9th Municipal Guard Act proposes to give a different wording to the added paragraph. 5a and 5b. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For -210, against - 238, holding off on one. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 10th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 7a. This minority proposal brings together the 51st minority proposal. We will vote on these proposals together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting minority proposals 10 and 51 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For -43 against - 273, 125 stopped. The Sejm rejected its conclusions. In the 11th minority proposal to Article. 96 of the Act - Code of conduct for offences of the applicant propose to add § 1d. We're going to the voice room. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For -19 against -428, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 12th minority application and the same 1st amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 12. The adoption of this proposal will render minority proposals 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17 and 2 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th minority proposal and the 1st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 164, against - 276, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 13th. the minority proposal and the same 2nd amendment of the applicant propose a different wording of the Article. 12. The adoption of this proposal will render minority proposals 14, 15, 16 and 17 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour 13. The minority proposal and the 2nd amendment, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 206, against - 230, 12 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 14th minority proposal to Article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 2. The adoption of this proposal will result in the nullity of minority proposals 15. and 16. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 170, against - 274, 1 Member abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests from 15 to 17 were submitted to Article. 12 draft law amending amendments to the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare. In the 15th minority proposal to Article. 61s propose in paragraph. 2 (3) add a different wording to point 3. b. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 218, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 16th minority proposal to Article. 61s applicants propose an amendment to the added paragraph. 6. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th minority proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 206, against - 237, 1 holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 17th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 42a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 161, against - 273, 11 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 18th minority application, applicants propose to add an article. 12a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For - 41, against - 271, stopped 127. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests from 19 to 20 and the amendment were tabled in Article. 14 draft law containing amendments to the Act on State Medical Rescue. In the 19th minority proposal to Article. 11a applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 73, against - 228, 141 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 20th minority proposal and the same 3rd amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 26c. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th minority proposal and the 3rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 201, against - 227, the 12. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests from 21st to 33rd and amendments from 4 to 9 were tabled in Article. 15 draft amending law containing amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections. In the 21st minority proposal to Article. 46c applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. For - 204, against - 232, the 9. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 4th amendment to the article. 46c applicants propose to add paragraph. 5a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 206, against - 224, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 22nd minority proposal to Article. 47 applicants propose an amendment to the added paragraph. 1a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 79, against - 230, holding 135. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 23rd minority proposal to Article. 47 applicants shall propose in paragraph. 3 do not change the wording of point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 209, against - 232, 5 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 5th amendment to the article. Forty-seven applicants propose e.g. in paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 new wording of point 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 215, against - 225, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 3 applicants propose to repeal point 5. Amendments 7 and 8 align with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 6, 7 and 8 will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 203, against - 235, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th minority proposal to Article. 47 applicants propose not to change the wording of paragraph. 3a and 3b. The adoption of this proposal will render the 25th minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For-- 219, against-- 230, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 25th minority proposal to Article. 47 applicants propose not to change the wording of paragraph. 3b. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. For - 202, against - 225, 10 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 26th minority proposal to Article. 47 applicants propose not to add paragraph. 8a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 160, against - 279, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 27th minority proposal to Article. 47 applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 10. The adoption of this proposal will render the 28th minority proposal irrelevant. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 209, against - 231, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 28th minority proposal to Article. 47 applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 10. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 208, against - 231, stopped 4. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 29th minority proposal to Article. 47 applicants propose to add paragraph. 10a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th minority request, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 208, against - 228, hold down 8. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 30th minority proposal to Article. 15 applicants propose to add point 5a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 160, against - 227, with 54 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 31st minority application, applicants propose not to add Article. 47b. The adoption of this proposal will render the proposals 32 and 33 futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 207, against - 228, 7 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 32nd minority proposal to the added Article. 47b propose to delete the second sentence. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 32nd minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 212, against - 231, 1 holding back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 33rd minority proposal to Article. 47b applicants propose to add paragraph. 1a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 33rd minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. For - 217, against - 230, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 9th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 47c. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 203, against - 228, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 34th minority proposal to Article. 40 The law on therapeutic activities of the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 1a and 1b. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 206, against - 228, with a hold of 10. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 10th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 19. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. For - 134, against - 297, the 11. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 35th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 19a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 43, against - 272, holding 129. The Sejm's motion is denied. Minority requests from the 36th to the 42nd and amendments from the 11th to the 14th were tabled in Article. 20 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. In the 36th minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 4g-4j. The adoption of this proposal will render proposals 37th, 38th and 39th futile and amendments 11th and 12th. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 206, against - 229, holding off on 11. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 37th minority proposal, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 4g. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendments 11 and 38. a minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 37th minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. In - 216, against - 231, 3 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 11th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the following Article. 4g. Its adoption will render the 38th minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For - 203, against - 227, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 38th minority application, the applicant shall propose the content of the added Article. 4g mark as paragraph. 1 and add paragraph. 2. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 207, against - 230, the 9. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] In the 39th minority proposal to the added Article. 4h applicants propose to add paragraph. 3. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 39th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who abstained from voting? 449 Members voted. For - 209, against - 229, with 11 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 12th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 5a and Article 5a 5b. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. For - 207, against - 231, 11 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. 40. the minority's request is irrelevant because its content has already been included in the Commission's submission of the bill. In the 41st minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 7h. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. For - 212, against - 229, 7 Members abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 13th amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 15i. Its adoption will render the 42nd minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 442 Members voted. For - 181, against - 236, with 25 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. At the request of the Platform Club 10 minutes break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 min. 39 hrs. 16 min 54]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 6 of the agenda. In the 42nd minority proposal, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 15i. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 42nd minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 171, against - 234, 35 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 14th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 20a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 204, against - 229, holding off on 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 15th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 21a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. In - 15, against - 427, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 43rd minority application, applicants propose to add Article. 21a-21f. Its adoption will result in the futility of the 21st amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 43rd minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. In - 205, against - 239, 2 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 44th minority application and the 16th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 22. The adoption of this proposal and this amendment will render the 45th minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th minority proposal and the 16th amendment would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. For - 168, against - 270, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 45th minority proposal to Article. 22 applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 1. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. For - 168, against - 230, 43 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 17th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 22a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For-- 215, against-- 230, one holding back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 23. Amendment 22 is linked to this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. Their adoption will result in the futility of the 19th amendment and the minority proposals 46, 47 and 48. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 18 and 22 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 167, against - 226, with 47 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 19th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 23. Its adoption will result in the futility of minority proposals 46, 47 and 48. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 206, against - 240, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 46th minority proposal, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 23. Its adoption will result in the nullity of the 47th minority proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 46th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. For - 208, against - 238, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 47th minority proposal, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 23. Its adoption will result in an unsubstantiated 48th motion. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. For - 200, against - 236, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 48th minority proposal, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 23. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 48th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Which one? 48, yes, sir. 46? Now it's 48. Mr. Marshal made a mistake. But does that change anything? He's changing. It doesn't change anything with you, it doesn't change anything with us. 441 Members voted. For - 49, against - 392, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 49th minority proposal and the same 20th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 23a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 49th minority proposal and the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 206, against - 231, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposals. In the 21st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 23b to 23d. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For - 205, against - 232, with a hold of 7. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 24a. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. For - 202, against - 236, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 50th minority application, applicants shall propose after Article. 26 add a new article. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. For - 201, against - 239, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 52nd minority application, applicants shall propose after Article. 26 add a new article. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 52nd minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. For - 153, against - 229, the 51. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 53rd minority proposal, applicants propose to make a different wording of the Article. 29. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 53rd minority request will want to raise your hand and press the button, of course. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 47, against - 272, stopped 124. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Monika Wielichowska has applied for the floor. One minute, Member. One and a half.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It could be a very good project, late, but good. This could be a project that would become an important element, a tool for the government in the fight against the pandemic, if it were built up by our amendments, which would increase the special fund to fight the pandemic, would provide a guarantee of 200% salaries for all COVID fighters who would contribute to the organisation, staff and financial support of health services that would open shops on Sunday, would grant welfare benefits, would restore the possibility of school management by directors and many, many others. Unfortunately, all of these amendments have been rejected, which means that the changes will not build the necessary strategy for the government to fight the coronavirus, a thoughtful strategy, consistent, expected. And it could have been so beautiful, so beautiful. Today, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of this project because it contains some good changes, hoping that this project will come back from the Senate rebuilt by our good amendments, and you will change your mind for the good of the citizens, [[♪ The bell ♪]] for their lives, health and safety. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u90	Thank you. With a question from Mr Tomasz Latos, Law and Justice. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u91	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On the other hand, I would like to thank, first of all, the Members of the applicants. I also wanted to thank the Minister, to thank all of you for many hours of very difficult, but also very meaningful work. We have really managed to develop a lot of extremely important and necessary solutions in this difficult, COVID reality. Really, ladies and gentlemen, let us not depreciate our joint work, our joint effort and a project that is worth supporting, a project that provides solutions also for the worst, most difficult moments. Let's hope it doesn't happen, hopefully you don't need those hospitals that are potentially created, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You never had to fill your patients. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. It depends on our shared responsibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u92	Member with a question? Member with a question. Please, Mr Shopiński, the Left Club. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u93	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Creating anti-epidemic laws only at the top of the pandemic is an example that the government is looking for a place in the well, only when it burns and crashes, and in addition it does not always look where it should be. The Left Club is aware of the shortcomings of this law, but we are also aware that this law significantly improves the Polish health system, provides good material conditions for doctors. Hoping that the Civic Platform, the Senate coalition, would like to improve this bill and that the PiS, as he declared during the work on the bill in committee, would like to support our conclusions in the Senate... The Left, with this in mind (The Bell), will therefore vote in favour of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u94	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński... Oh, that was the Member. Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u95	Coalition Poland - Kukiz15 - Polish People's Party. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have worked long on this law, many things we have managed to improve together in substantive amendments, in accordance with. This is what Poles expect of us, despite the great differences that are here in the Chamber. But anyone who didn't get into the doctor's office today or yesterday expects each Member to add a brick to make this system work. Today, the Minister of Health spoke about the need to include private health protection in helping fight the coronavirus. And I have a question for the Minister of Health: Isn't it worth considering that any patient who hasn't gotten to the doctor at the NFZ could go and heal himself in private... Same thing. ...and get a refund, a refund for this treatment? That way we can help all patients. This is an important question from every Pole. 'Cause there's a lot of guys who didn't get into the clinic. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they had to go to a private doctor. Thank you, sir. Isn't that why we pay our contributions to get our money back? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u96	We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 698, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For -423, against -11, holding off on 9. [[Applause]] The Sejm passed a law amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crisis situations related to the occurrence of COVID-19. You asked the Minister of Health Adam Niedzielski for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all of you very warmly for this unambiguous assessment of our solutions. I think this is a very good project. There are no ideals, but this project actually responds to needs that are related to a dynamically developing pandemic. I would particularly like to thank you for your very substantive work on the committee. Both Mr President, Minister Gadomiski, who is here, in the Chamber, and all the Members of the opposition who, yesterday, made a very substantial contribution to those solutions that were voted out today. Because at the committee meeting, solutions were adopted jointly for at least 100% compensation for city guards, publication of information on procedures exempted from public procurement rules and other arrangements. So that, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much and I hope this is a prelude to the swift passage of the bill by the Senate. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u98	Thank you, Minister. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Appointment of the Ombudsman (prints Nos 536, 537, 618 and 618-A). High Izbo! According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of this Regulation. 1 Constitution and Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Act on the Ombudsman, the Sejm shall appoint an ombudsman with the consent of the Senate. Two groups of Members have submitted the candidacy of Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz as ombudsman. On behalf of the group of Members from the parliamentary club, Mr Krzysztof Smishek will present his candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my great honor to present an extraordinary candidate for the post of ombudsman. Counselor Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz, whom I warmly welcome [[Applause]] At the Seym Gallery, she is not only a partyless candidate recommended by the Left Club, but she is above all a citizen candidate, and this term fully reflects today's situation. It is supported by over 1100 social organisations, from left to right, from liberal to conservative. We are dealing with an unprecedented situation. We've never seen a sovereign mobilization like this before. Yes, the sovereign. 1100 organizations have said how they see the functioning of this office. Never before have citizens so massively joined together in joint efforts to appoint a spokesperson. The Community, cooperation, courage - that is its vision of the functioning of this body, the ombudsman. The candidate met with every parliamentary club and circle. Everyone had the opportunity to get acquainted with her program and the idea of office work. This office is neither ours nor yours. This office belongs to citizens and citizens. The Ombudsman has over 50,000 members a year. complaints and requests for support. This means that the working standards of this body so far have extraordinary social trust. Let's not waste this work. Let us not waste this potential, which has been implementing the Ombudsman's office for 30 years. Every spokesman in the last three decades has marked this office with his vision, from Professor Łętowska to Professor Bodnar. I believe that the candidate I present will add her precious brick to the functioning of this political and extremely important office, which is the Ombudsman's office. High Izbo! It's time to make peace. We have heard this since yesterday, in this House it has happened many times, also from the mouth of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. And it's a good opportunity for us to choose someone who's gonna connect and, above all, someone who's gonna take care of the sovereign's business. There is no better test for this password and new quality in politics than today's vote. You've done your homework. Rudzińska-Ivy is primarily a struggle for man and his affairs. She'll be the spokesperson for human affairs. It's time to agree, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice. It's time for Susanna Rudzińska-Ivy. It's time for a citizen's spokesperson. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u100	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will present the candidacy of Mr Robert Kropiwnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, I am extremely honored to present a candidate for the role of ombudsman, and this is crucial, a ombudsman, not a politician's attorney, not another political booty, not another position for friends, but an ombudsman. The key thing is that this is an office that is supposed to protect citizens from power, from every authority, both from the smallest one - the municipal one and from the great minister, the great Deputy Prime Minister, the Prime Minister or the President. Thousands of people write to the Ombudsman most often in the hope that he will help them in conflict with power - court, office, administration. That's what a spokesman is all about. I ask you to consider what this function is for. It's not a function for politicians, it's a function for people, because it's mostly people who have to believe the spokesperson. If you choose another person, such as Piotrowicz or Pawłowicz, no one will believe that this is an independent spokesman. Everyone's gonna know it's about another political loot. Think about it. In modern Europe it is quite a new institution - it was founded in the 19th century. In Poland it has existed for a little more than 30 years. In ancient Rome, for nearly 500 years, there was an institution of the folk tribune. He was elected by men to represent them in matters of power - against the patricians, senators and various other administrators - as if against today's Members and Senators - so that the people would have their representative. The people have chosen their representatives for 500 years. Do you know who took out the grandstands? Caesar destroyed them the moment he ended up with the republic. He said he would represent the people. If you want to do the same, say that you will represent the people now, no one will believe you. Everyone knows that you are here to exercise authority, most often in your own interests, not in the interests of the people. It is very important that you remember what this position is for, how it works and in what circumstances it was created. If you appoint one of you, one of your political circles, this function will no longer make sense. A politician's spokesperson isn't needed for anybody, they all need an ombudsman for the people, an ombudsman. The Ombudsman is also a kind of safety valve, because at a time when people lose confidence in power - they are already losing confidence in you too, they stop trusting you, as you see in the polls and in the rankings of public confidence - there will be a moment when your authority will also pass away - it remains the spokesman who represents them in order to tell you what needs to be changed, what are the actual problems. Don't be afraid of that choice. Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ivy has a lot of experience. She worked in the Ombudsman's office, worked in private law firms, and she knows how to run this office. We dated her, and we have every confidence in her. We know that he will be a spokesperson for people, not politicians, because it is very important that he represent more than 1000 organizations in which tens of thousands of people are associated - from circles of country hostess to large system NGOs that operate in Poland - so that they have their representative, so that someone can speak for people in their real voice, so that someone speaks for the people affected. It should also be said that Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz was seeing senators. There's a good chance she'll have the Senate's support. It should also be important for us as a House - we choose someone who will have the support of the Senate. What you're proposing, you're working with the tribunal, you're considering whether it might be possible to move away, create a replacement function... Why spoil the system, why spoil Poland, how can you normally choose a spokesman? I'm not able to understand that you're doing legal tricks, crooking, if you can honestly, with an open headlight, normally pick a spokesperson that people trust. That's why I'm asking you to support Mrs. Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ivy, who will be a really good spokesman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u102	I now ask Mr Jan Kanthak to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I present the opinion of the committee on the request to appoint Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz as Ombudsman. The committee met on 17 September and 5 October. There's been a discussion. After the discussion, a vote took place. An opinion has been expressed in this vote. Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ivy's candidacy has been negative. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u104	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak again? Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. One minute. Yeah, what's more? Enough, you've already said everything on the committee. We don't need to star. We know everything. Since Monday, Mr. Marshal, two minutes have been agreed. Yes? But where, at the bureau meeting? At the convention meeting. Okay, two minutes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These days, each and every one of us wakes up with fear, with concern for life and health. people close to us. What's the test result? What happens if someone gets sick? Will there be room in the hospital? We are all at war - power and society. We're not fighting each other, we're fighting a killer coronavirus. I don't think that's the case, sir. Not about the subject, but good. We're picking an ombudsman today, a public spokesperson. Today society comes to us in the form of 1105 organizations and presents a social candidate - Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz, competent, combining, independent, completely impartial, courageous, determined and prepared. This is not the time to learn the role of spokesperson. The Ombudsman doesn't have to like the power. I didn't hear any substantive remarks about the candidate. You say she's a great candidate in the cockroaches. You're kidding. Don't reject this proposal just because you don't have your own. Don't lie to me. This is no time for political and political loot. This is not the time to issue party notes to get a high position. People are lost, they don't feel safe, they can't keep up with changing decisions. They want a spokesperson they can turn to in any case. They want to turn to someone who will listen to them, who will take care of their problem. The interests of the elderly, the dependant, the disabled, the homeless crisis You can't call it right-wing or left-wing. The Ombudsman is not from accepting decisions of authority, either that of the local government or that of the government. Polish people and Poles have the right to the Ombudsman's rights. Mr Morawiecki said yesterday that solidarity is the most important vaccine for Coronavirus. The word "cooperation" changed by all cases. Today is an opportunity for the Prime Minister and his camp to confirm these words and prove that these are not empty passwords. Today we are conducting a test for the credibility of these words. The Ombudsman's choice will confirm it or not. This is the place, this is the time. Let's listen to the voice of society. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u106	Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 9622, 10040, 12107 - daily new number of days. That's not an abstract number, that's the number of people with a positive COVID-19 test. These are the numbers behind human tragedies, fear, pain. Not about that. It's hours of waiting for a swab, a party for the ward. These are ambulance lines in hospital driveways. It's a lonely disease, sometimes a lonely death. In these difficult times, we need to see how important the Ombudsman is. The Ombudsman is not and cannot be an obedient performer of party whims. It is a constitutional office for and by citizens. Do you know what brings together an association that helps people who are addicted to alcohol in Andrychow, Bydgoszcz Smog Alarm, Warsaw ZHP, Zielona Góra seniors' foundation or the Association of Young Municipalities? They probably share the fact that they voted for all States here, on each side of this House, but above all they believe that the Ombudsman's Office should not be the subject of a political fair. They share their trust in the ideas behind the election of the spokesman over the party divisions. These organizations are over 1100 and are behind them over 1 million Poles and Poles. And all those who will raise their hand today against the candidate for the office of ombudsman... Oh, dear. ...will show Lichocka's famous finger to all these organizations... Oh... ...and the entire society that supports this candidacy. Can't you be more creative? Yesterday we heard, it's time to make peace. So show me your hand towards society on this black day. [[♪ The bell ♪]] for women's rights, for human rights. Hold out your hand to make peace. It's time to make peace. [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u108	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome. Two minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! I will start by addressing this part of the Parliament's Chamber with the question: Isn't it a shame for you to have this wonderful work of the institution, which is the office of the Ombudsman, the acquis, which is also dead. Janusz Kochanowski, associated with your political environment as an ombudsman, created? That's what it's been since sleep. Janusz Kochanowski... That's what I'm talking about. Janusz Kochanowski participated, and then the other spokespersons took part in the education of the Advocates and the creation of these offices in the countries that joined the Eastern Partnership alliance. We were admired as a country for its excellent contribution to building these extraordinary institutions in other countries. Today, by introducing a kind of paralysis, you're crossing this country out. So we ask on this occasion: Isn't it a pity for this work that people have created different views, different political options? I will now go to the person of counsel Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ivy. What is wrong, ladies and gentlemen, with emphasis on equal access to education, equal access to healthcare, in identifying areas of poverty which, unfortunately, among the youngest, are still present in our country? What is wrong with pointing out digital exclusion that affects a large part of our country? Are these controversial areas? Are these matters that we should deny in this House today? Finally, very large and strong civic support convinces us to support the patron with full responsibility, as a coalition of Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Susanna Rudzińska-Ivy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u110	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Art. 38 of the Constitution says that the Republic of Poland provides every man with legal protection of life. Today's judgment of the Tribunal, the ruling of the Constitutional Tribunal brought us closer to the fact that after several years Poland finally fulfilled what is included in the Constitution, which is in its content. At this point, it is worth thanking the judges of the Constitutional Tribunal for giving such a judgment. [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the constitution, the constitution, the constitution. The Republic of Poland provides every man with legal protection of life. A man, an unborn child, a sick person or a suspect in a disease. [[Movement in the courtroom, some Members hit the desktops]] Members of Parliament... Mr Pierce, please stop for a moment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is the time, this is the moment for the parliament of the Republic of Poland... [[Game in the O.R.]] The left shows his rudeness, gentlemen. Bravo, Marshal. Mr. Czarzasty, how can you not be ashamed to do such a thing in the Seym? Aren't you ashamed? Exhibitions in the O.R. And if you're not ashamed of me... Then sit down and don't raise your voice when you don't have a voice. What if you're not ashamed to allow such voices to be disgraced? You're welcome to finish. I've heard a lot of disgraceful voices here, and there's no such thing. It's about time they started. You do the right thing. Then you won't pay any attention to me. Have a seat. May I, Marshal? Please, sir. It is high time, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that the Parliament of the Republic of Poland, both the Sejm and the Senate, should elect an ombudsman who will guarantee respect for all civil rights, especially the fundamental one, the most important one, the right to life. With all due respect, Counselor, during the committee's work, during these hearings, we did not hear a clear declaration on this matter. Therefore, we cannot give such support. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the other hand, I call upon the High House to choose... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u112	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. 29 in conjunction with Article. 31 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, appoint the Ombudsman by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz as ombudsman would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. The absolute majority is 224. For - 201, against - 237, the 9. The Sejm did not appoint Ms Zuzanna Rudzińska-Ilusz to be an ombudsman. [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] In view of the fact that the Sejm has not appointed an Ombudsman, the procedure will be resumed. On the basis of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Point 3 (5) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm sets a time limit for the submission of applications for the appointment of an ombudsman until 27 October 2020. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 19th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to join us? I'm closing the list of reporters. Please, Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition Club. [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]] I ask Mrs Anita Kucharska-Dziedzic to make a statement. [[Ms Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Ms Monica Falej, Ms Katarzyna Ueberhan, Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, Ms Katarzyna Kotula and Mr Wanda Nowicka are on the stand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The so-called Constitutional Tribunal. The sentence was a violation of Polish women, disgraced them, deprived them of dignity and human rights, deprived them of human subjectivity, deprived them of their right to decide about themselves, about their life, health and the right to have a happy family. He incapacitated them. The Polish state betrayed half of its citizens with the hands of the Constitutional Tribunal's hull. The Polish Parliament cannot remain silent and passive towards this wickedness. I would like to make a formal request for a break and call for an immediate parliamentary debate until women have been gagged until chains have been established, while the Marshal's Guard has not yet been elected by the Parliamentary Chamber. We need to start a debate on the liberalisation of the abortion bill, about restoring the rights of Poles due to their human rights. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u114	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Marta Wcisło, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. Is Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition in the Chamber? You're welcome, sir. Except there was a request for a break. Now, sir, I ask you to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u115	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister for Development, Labour and Technology of Mr Jarosław Gowin. By Act of 20 May 2016 on investments in wind power plants, the Sejm adopted new regulations concerning the construction of wind power plants in Poland. So-called. Green energy, of course, is one way of dealing with the climate crisis that destroys our planet, but on the other hand, the law adopted significantly reduced the possibility of housing in municipalities, which decided before the law entered into force to introduce local spatial planning plans, and before that - to study the conditions and directions of spatial development, areas for the construction of a wind farm. The limitation of the construction of residential buildings, i.e. the possibility of building less than 10 times the height of the wind power plant measured from the ground level to the highest point of the building, practically blocked the development of the municipalities that invested in green energy. An example of this is one of the municipalities of my constituency. In Wielkowsi in the district of Gliwice long before the entry into force of the so-called. The district council decided to give the green light to the construction of the wind farm. In 2016, the Sejm, without listening to the voice of the inhabitants of the areas affected by the law, put the municipal authorities in a situation without leaving. The municipalities faced a vision of the total blockage of residential areas after the expiry of the transitional provisions. Recently, reports have appeared in the media that the Government of the United Right tried to correct the mistake made in 2016 and planned systemic changes in the field of wind farms in Poland in the form of presenting a draft law to the Sejm on amending the law on investments in wind power plants. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Prime Minister to answer the following questions: Does the Ministry intend to present to the Council of Ministers any draft law amending the law on investments in wind power stations? Has the Ministry received any requests since 2016 to amend the provisions of this law? What changes is the Ministry planning to present in the bill announced by Minister Jadwiga Emilewicz? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Has the Ministry conducted any consultations with the local authorities of the municipalities in which wind power plants are created or exist? Last but not least: Why did the Ministry not respond, did not ask the Sejm not to adopt a draft law on investments in wind power plants in 2016, since it was not difficult to predict that the draft law would practically deprive municipalities in which wind power stations, residential areas would be located or will be located? Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u116	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to make a statement by Władysław Theofil Bartoszewski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u117	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today was an important day because we were going to appoint an ombudsman. This is a very important constitutional function, the role of the Ombudsman is mainly to be a lawyer of the sovereign, i.e. the nation, against all possible violations of power and law through the authorities of the municipal, district, voivodship and central administration and all state offices, as well as possible bad actions of politicians. This is an extremely important function. On 9 September, Dr. Bodnar's current Ombudsman passed his term of office, and for some reason Law and Justice were unable to suggest any candidate or candidate at all times. Therefore, social organisations of over 1000 supported the candidacy of Mrs Zuzanna Rudzińska-Iluszcz. Today, by the votes of Law and Justice, the candidate Rudzińska-Iluszcz was rejected. This means that PiS has social organisations and their members for nothing, while not fulfilling its political responsibilities, because no other candidate has suggested. It is the request of the Polish Coalition that the Ombudsman be elected in general elections by the sovereign himself. And that would probably be the best solution. But I would like to appeal to... Oh, I see your senior marshal. Mr. Marshal, I would like to appeal to you as a senior officer, a representative of the power camp, to act to the extent that Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke about yesterday, a certain consensus. As a matter of fact, I knew sleep well. Mr Janusz Kochanowski, former Ombudsman who died tragically, and Mr Janusz Kochanowski was a great lawyer, but he did not bow down to power. Because his function was to control power. For this reason he was awarded not only by the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help so-called. the quality mark of the orchestra, but also got the medal of St. Albert's brother, because he dealt with the disabled, the poor and supported NGOs. I would like to see a spokesman who acted independently of his political views, and Mr Kochanowski had conservative views, but knew that his function was to control power, not to flatter it. I would like to ask you very much, if you'll allow me to ask the senior marshal to appeal to his political camp for us to choose a competent person, [[♪ The bell ♪]] right, moral, right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u118	Thank you very much. I am pleased that Mr. Marshal Sr. took the position of the Polish Coalition with great attention, which says that the Ombudsman should be elected in the general election. May I? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened with great attention to the position presented by Mr Bartoszewski on behalf of PSL, the Polish Coalition, the Kukiz formation and of course I agree with a lot of comments. Especially those that point to the need for consensus on control of power. Because a person was summoned to sleep. Mr Kochanowski, who fell over Smolensk, I appeal to the Polish Coalition, to all Members, to support the work of the Smolensk drama committee and to speak together on the control of the power at the time - Mr Donald Tusk - who put the whole procedure into Russian hands, which causes great difficulties and difficulties in examining this drama, which - there is no doubt - was caused by the explosion which was the result of the bombing. I would like to thank Mr Bartoszewski very much for calling on this House to control the power together as part of the consensus, not to lie and to be together in the most important matters for Poland. I am convinced that this will be the case in all these important matters. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u120	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! In recent days, besides information on the amount of infection at COVID-19, we also receive dramatic letters from citizens in the context of a new draft list of drug refunds, which is due to apply from 1 November 2020. Mrs Lidia writes: 2020 is called the year of lung cancer. I never thought it would be a year of lung cancer for me, the beginning of my life with lung cancer. I'm a young person, I've never smoked a cigarette. The diagnosis I heard from the doctors after the surgery was cruel: you have malignant lung cancer. As a patient with lung cancer, I want to be treated according to treatment standards in other European countries - innovative and effective medicines. The newly announced draft drug refund, which is due to apply from 1 November this year, ignores innovative therapies. Therefore, on behalf of the environment of patients with lung cancer and their families, I would like to express my deep disappointment that this list of reimbursed medicines for innovative therapy for non-small cell lung cancer in people expressing PD-L1 below 50. This means that a significant group of patients will still be deprived of access to a groundbreaking treatment option, recommended and available in 25 European countries, among others. Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro or Romania. In Poland every day because of lung cancer 63 people die - yesterday 63, today 63, tomorrow 63 people die. They don't have time to wait for more refund letters. The extension and improvement of the quality of life of these patients is fully dependent on access to safe medicines with proven efficacy. Unfortunately, the lack of access to this drug on the refunded list continues to deprive them of this opportunity. I therefore again call on the Minister of Health to pay the refund from 1 November. the treatment option for lung cancer patients in subjects with PD-L1 expression below 50. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u122	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement to Mrs Wanda Nowicka. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u123	Today is the day of shame. The Constitutional Tribunal, seized by the Law and Justice by his order, imposed a total ban on abortion, thus enslaved the Polish women and forced them to bear children even when they die, children without faces, children without brains. They will be forced, which is the greatest torture, to observe the suffering of these children. Thus, the Constitutional Tribunal compared Poland to Duda and Kaczyński with totalitarian regimes, where there was also a total ban on abortion, i.e. with the Third Reich of Hitler, with the Soviet Union of Stalin and finally with the Ceaucescu regime in Romania. This is not permitted by the Left, especially since this proposal is the most outrageous, because the Constitutional Tribunal itself, which should uphold the constitutional rights of women, is breaking the constitutional rights of women. So women's right to dignity. For no one will deny that a woman forced to bear a child with flaws is devoid of dignity, her dignity has been broken. Women are deprived of freedom - art. 31. I don't think there's any reason for that. If they can't decide for themselves, their freedom is ruined. Finally, the Constitution guarantees a life free of torture for everyone, including Poles. After all, what they're going to be dealing with now is the greatest torture you can imagine. But the Left never stops fighting for women's rights. We will continue to fight for these rights until the end, and today I announce that we will submit a proposal to the Constitutional Court which will show that the Constitution and constitutional rights of women are violated in Poland and are violated by the Constitutional Tribunal. Sooner or later - I hope, sooner - the Polish people will regain their right to decide, to dignity, to live in a free country, to live in a European country. We cannot be enslaved, deprived of our rights. It's not fair, it has nothing to do with the law, it's just unfair.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u124	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement by Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! One of the most important events in the history of Poland is the capture of the Moscow Kremlin by the Polish army with the captain Stanisław Żółkiewski at the head. Poles were the first Europeans to win the capital of the Grand Duchy of Moscow. It all began with the Polish-Russian war, which broke out in 1609. A year later, Poles defeated many more Swedish-Russian troops in the Battle of Kłuszyn, and on 9 October 1610 our army under the command of the captain Stanisław Żółkiewski occupied the Kremlin. It is worth adding that the ratio of Polish troops in relation to Swedish-Russian troops was 5 thousand, respectively. Husarii, 2,000. Auxiliary soldiers against the 35,000 enemy army. As a result of the defeat, the throne lost the Tsar Wasyl Szujski. Throughout August 1610 the negotiations, which ended with a settlement, whereby the tsar of Russia became the son of Zygmunt III Vasa Władysław, while Vasyl Szujski and his sons were arrested. The Moscow mint knocked out coins with the image of Władysław IV Vasa, while the Poles occupied Moscow for over 2 years, knocking out the most important value - sovereignty - from the hands of the Russians. The Poles did what no other army later succeeded. The Polish-Russian war along with the capture of the Kremlin is referred to in Russia as a great sadness. The result of the events mentioned by me was the Russian tribute paid by the Tsar Wasyl Szujski and his brothers Zygmunt III Vase at the Royal Castle in Warsaw. However, it is an event forgotten about the great historical significance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u126	Thank you very much. I would now like to make a statement to Mrs Monica Falej, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u127	High Izbo! Until a few days ago, there were about 40 patients infected with the coronavirus in the Ostrodek hospital. There's almost 150 of them today, and we're running out of seats. In Olsztyn, a surgical unit was closed down at the city hospital. In the New City of Lubawski, obstetrics and gynecology were closed due to virus infection. Patients' admissions were suspended until further notice. Internal troops were closed in county hospitals in Mrągów and Węgorzewo. A branch of neurology has been shut down in Morąg because of coronavirus in the county hospital. The city hospital in Elbląg is to be completely transformed into an infectious hospital due to the high increase in koravirus infection. This was the decision made by Artur Chojecki - Warmia-Mazury Voivode. Because of such sudden actions, people who were to have surgery, such as oncology, have been deprived of this possibility. I could calculate more hospitals in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship or in Poland as a whole. But what's next? What have you been doing for years? What were you doing? You just figured out there's no epidemic, we know that. What have you done to prepare Poland and Poles, and Warmia-Mazurskie voivodeship, for the second wave of epidemic that everyone knew about? Show me the plan and strategy, the scenarios, what you're gonna do. Just show me the papers. We have a right to know, and you have a legal and moral obligation to explain yourself from what has been done and what has not been done. Why were these months lost to these hospitals and patients? You should prepare Poland for a second wave of epidemics and so that people who have planned operations can have them done, because it is a matter of their life and health. But you're not prepared. And I want to know what medical care is supposed to look like in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship today and tomorrow. How will sick people, not coritos, be medically taken care of? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u128	Thank you very much, Member. Can you ask your programmer to communicate with the viewers a little quietly? One more second, sir, because we should hear you first, not public television. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u129	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In December this year, i.e. in 2 months, it will be a year since the first reading in the High Chamber of Citizens of the bill on the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz. Unfortunately, despite the dramatic lack of doctors and nurses in Poland, this important project still lies in the seym freezer. For many years the Polish healthcare system has been choking from the lack of doctors, nurses and representatives of other medical professions. A year ago, at a time when the government had already known about the epidemic, the General Medical Council warned that there were 70,000 missing in our country. Doctors. There weren't enough pediatricians, child psychiatrists, hematologists, oncologists, even family doctors. Poland took the last place in Europe in terms of the number of doctors per thousand. residents according to European Union statistics. Unfortunately, instead of increasing the number of medical universities in Poland and increasing the level of education, PiS politicians responded to this data by hiding their head in the sand and failing to act. It's a typical hot water policy in the tap. Today, these omissions have a dramatic effect. The main problem of fighting the epidemic, as it turns out, is not money today, it is not masks, it is not even respirators, but it is a human factor, or specialists. Without them, the ventilator will not work, without them it is impossible to treat the patient, and even to take samples for examination or to get him to a hospital safely. Today, instead of using the knowledge and involvement of doctors educated in Poland, the government is looking for them on Ukrainian and Kazakh steppes. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Polish healthcare system must be prepared for peace and crisis. Without an increase in the number of doctors and nurses, all reforms and all makeshifts will have the same effect as the proverbial transfer from empty to vain. The citizens' bill on the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz aims to increase the number of trained doctors and other medical staff. The University of Bydgoszcz will not be created at the expense of other universities. We aim to ensure that in Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship there are two universities that educate medical staff instead of one - one in Toruń based on the UMK and hospitals in Toruń and the other in Bydgoszcz based on the new university and hospitals in Bydgoszcz. The university base can be extended to other voivodship hospitals, e.g. in Grudziądz, Inowroclaw and the Harvest. With this concept, university centres in Bydgoszcz and Toruń will not lose anything, but will gain anything, as will Polish patients and the whole health care system. I would therefore like to ask your marshal, who sets the subject matter and time limits for the work of the Sejm (the bell) to set the date for the committee meeting as soon as possible in order to start work on the bill. The Seym has already wasted almost a year on the establishment of the Medical University in Bydgoszcz. Today is not only the time to think about digging a well when everything is on fire, but also the time to think about the future. The medical and nursing staff trained at Polish universities is precisely a guarantee of the future. I therefore call and ask for urgent implementation of the legislative work on this citizens' bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-22-sejm-19-3.u130	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements. Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 19th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 20th session of the Sejm, convened on 27 and 28 October 2020, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 18 min 29]]
