ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u1	Dear Mr. President, Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In front of our eyes, a new world order is being forged, a world after a coronavirus. We know very well that what is happening today will affect Poland, Europe in 5, 10 years. And under the circumstances... The president didn't come. ... Poland needs an approach that will be most appropriate for the realization of its interests. I would like to start by asking such a simple and most important question - what Poles need today. Honesty, honesty. Because Poles today need first and foremost efficiency, justice, it needs our actions to be influenced, [[Applause]] real impact on health reality and economic reality. And under the circumstances that we are in, Poles don't need your fights, they don't need barren discussions... Your scandals. ...you're raising, and they don't need substitute subjects... You're the ones with the Banana problem. ...which you call to cover your inability. Nor do the Poles need your money, nor do they need a fight. Poles need stability and peace, they need action for the good of the Republic. [[Touchdown, applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, less than eight months ago... Excuse me, Prime Minister. Prime Minister, I am so sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak... What's that even? ...in accordance with the rules of procedure, the Prime Minister of the Polish Government. You will have time to ask questions, to make speeches. You're welcome. Your Marshal, but the Prime Minister is talking to us. And he insults us. Less than eight months ago, the Poles decided. The Poles decided to place Poland's fate for the next four years in the hands of the government of the United Right. [[Applause]] They decided in elections which were unprecedented - turnout 61.7 and the highest number of votes in parliamentary elections, and percentage, and also in absolute terms, over PLN 8 million... But the citizens are smaller. Money, money. ...over 8 million votes for the United Right. 8 million is a plot near Wroclaw. And this is a strong mandate that we want to use today so that Poland is built after the coronavirus so that we can benefit from it, and not that under the difficult circumstances in which we are in Poland, Poland is in the tail of Europe. And in this reality... It's for Minister Szumowski. ...the reality that surrounds us when in the United States the situation is very difficult and in the pandemic area, in the area of health care, and of course also in the economy, and we see political unrest... Szumowski's doing business. ...when Europe slowly emerges from the health crisis and falls very deeply into the economic crisis when there is a shaking order and international order in the Far East - we see what is happening around China - when there are no more millions of people, but billions of people in the world are shaking about their jobs, in this situation we need unity. And honesty. Unity between executives, legislative authorities, between the Sejm, the Senate, the President, the government and the local governments. We really need this. [[Applause]] And that's why I've been talking to the president in the last few days. Mr. President proposed that we cut through this festival that you're trying to organize... Chairman. ...this festivities festival, and just to say, "I'm checking." It's true. If you have enough votes, call us off or stop rubbing it, stop fucking... The nation will call you off. ...stop inventing substitute topics: [[Applause]] once the resignation of Prime Minister Sasin, today Minister Szumowski, you are announcing the dismissal of Minister Ziobra, Minister Kaminski. One at a time. These are all political tricks to cover our reality. Lying. And the reality is that we've been coming out of the deepest crisis in at least 30 years. And let us act. Don't disturb us. [[Applause]] Steal. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I would like to say a few sentences because this is a request for a vote of confidence in my government, about our achievements, about what we have done in the last few years. Well, five years ago, there was a fundamental change. The door to this good change was opened by President Andrzej Duda. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Applause]] And this change was followed by a new social policy, a new economic policy, first by Prime Minister Beata Szydło's office, which I had the honour of being a member and then continued also by me and by the government that is here with us today. This is a whole new policy, a policy that was designed to move this development crossover, a modernization crossover towards a normal human being. Your pockets. And we did. Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] But this policy, this whole new policy for the good of the people, would not have been possible if it had not been for the union of the patriotic forces around this common goal, the common good, which is strong, just, prosperous Republic. Therefore, I thank very much both Mr Jarosław Gowin's Agreement and Mr Zbigniew Ziebra's Solidary Poland, which have joined us and which are with us in this repair work of the Republic of Poland. Minister Zbigniew Ziobro is very strongly trying to fix something that is one of the most powerful heels of the Third Republic's Achilles: the justice system. [[Applause]] And here, ladies and gentlemen, for those of you who, for example, have. I have just one very small suggestion: reach out to yourself once a month, once every 2 months to the last sentences handed down by Polish courts in ordinary cases, criminal cases, civil cases, such as the recent court in Zamość, which sentenced criminals to 4 and 5 years in prison, criminals who murdered a man with premeditated premeditated premeditated and extremely beastly ways in the eyes of her children, or a court in Elbląg who suspended men for rape, and then the higher court imposed a fine for failing to appear before this woman in front of the court because she did not want to see the face of her perpetrators. These are judgments of the courts of the Republic of Poland. Zbigniew Ziobro, Minister Zbigniew Ziobro... Who's in charge? ...and fights more and more effectively. And thank you very much, Minister, for that. [[Applause]] He's fighting convictions? We are also fighting for the best environment for small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are the salt of the earth. Thank you very much to Prime Minister Jarosław Gowin and the Party of the Agreement for reforms, for taking care of small and medium-sized enterprises. This is ridiculous. Ladies and gentlemen! A few basic numbers, a few basic numbers that prove our success... $5 million for masks. ...which you are trying to scream, you are trying to blur through your adventure, but I stress: these are numbers that are very easy to check and which speak for effective rule of law and justice. Millions on masks. Firstly, unemployment fell to the second lowest level in the European Union. Especially now. This nightmare of the Third Republic, the neoliberal model that you have implemented, has gone into oblivion. Today it is again a powerful challenge for us, as a result of the epidemic. Secondly, GDP growth - 4.2 on average in the last few years, twice as fast as in the European Union, three times faster than in the euro area countries. [[Applause]] You can't scream it, you can't cover it. Penalty. Minimum salary - from 1750 PLN to 2600 PLN, increase by almost 50%. Average salary in the national economy - an increase by more than PLN 1000 over 4 years. Never before, in previous four-year-olds, there was such a rapid increase in real wages of Poles as in the times of the rule of the United Right, Law and Justice. [[Applause]] It's still inflation. About inflation... Tax reduction, CIT - from 19 to 9%, PIT - by 6%, by 1 percentage point, or 6% About 18 to 17, and that's for 24 million of our countrymen. Through the VAT matrix also reduce VAT for many goods. Finally, all these great social programs that changed the lives of millions of Poles, tens of millions of Poles: 500+, Inflation. ...they used their talents, their creativity, [[Applause]] Not the offer you had: take credit, change jobs or go abroad. We don't look like that. All Poles must take place here, they must have a home here, and that is why our efforts were going to create as many jobs as possible. And it worked. More than 2 million new workers, people who built Polish prosperity, Polish GDP. That's how we got ahead of the others. We also preceded the economic growth of the Visegrad Group on average. And this is the measure of our success, the real economic measure, which by sealing the tax system, by improving the institutions... Yes, those institutions that have been weak for 300 years, for which some have not existed for 200 years. It's hard to talk in a commune. about tax institutions, and for 30 years, for 25 years, they have been practically treated as a fifth wheel. Without fair taxes, there is no fair state. We have led to the fundamental improvement of these institutions. Yeah, we've got a long way to go, [[Applause]] But we are moving towards more and more efficient institutions and I am convinced that in the following years it will also translate into an increase in the prosperity of the entire Polish country. Ladies and gentlemen! Meanwhile, everyone today, the whole world is talking about the coronavirus, so now I want to move on to the epidemic part about the pandemic. Well, when the whole world started struggling with the coronavirus, there were no manuals to fight such a pandemic, there were no good advisors, there was no one to give the only good advice. Skier was, skier was. And it was at that time that we had to make decisions, sometimes from minute to minute, from hour to hour. On Krupówki. With your decision-making procedure in previous years, I'm convinced... Anyway, I'm going to try this experiment right now, if anyone wants to hear what it would look like, because there was an epidemic in your day, too, much less dangerous. Let me remind you how your health ministers and your prime ministers reacted. You were wrong to advise... Well, in the case of our time, we acted quickly. As soon as possible, we closed the borders to make health checks. We closed mass events 6 days after the first event in Poland. In Germany, France, Italy or Spain, the same principle was implemented after 40 days. And that is the art: the art of making the right decisions at the right time. Masks. And we're not gonna let you tell us that two times two is five or that right is left and left is right. That the skier's bad. The truth is, we've had a huge success in fighting the coronavirus, [[Applause]] success, which is seen by everyone around the world. How much are those masks? There were voices in your benches: the Western model, the Swedish model. Read yesterday's statement by Sweden's chief epidemiologist, confessing to his mistakes, pleading guilty. He says: today I already know that our actions should be faster, they were late. That's why they died in Sweden for a lot of people. That's what the Swedes say about Sweden. Look at the level of deaths per million inhabitants in countries far richer than us. What do you say? Look at Spain and Italy, where people were buried in solitude, without loved ones. Look at the United States, where unfortunately in New York the mass graves had to be prepared. In Brazil, too. Even in Ukraine close to us, such graves were prepared. And there are other countries in the world where people had to hide in boxes for lack of coffins. And the fact that we didn't have any such tragedy, the fact that we didn't run out of ventilators, we didn't run out of beds, we always had an excess of them, it's an effective policy of the United Right government, [[Applause]] this is an effective policy of the Minister of Health of the United Right of Mr Łukasz Szumowski. And for that we should all be grateful to him, too, because these indicators are unambiguous. These bonuses need to be paid... Even in one of the absolutely richest countries in the world as Switzerland is eight times more deaths. In the UK - more than 20 times more deaths, in Belgium - 32 times more deaths than in Poland. Even in the countries of central Europe, such as Hungary or northern Europe, like Finland, there are twice as many deaths as in Poland. This is the measure of our effectiveness. And this also means, dear fellow countrymen, that all these attempts to cover the truth, to cover the truth about the fight against the epidemic, are merely a political preponderance, are merely an attempt to blur the reality as it is. And that's why you're lying. Oh, oh! You lie brazenly, sometimes looking in the eyes or in the screen, in the eye of the camera, just to get people's eyes off, to mess with people's heads. Let's not give it up, fellow countrymen. Let's look at hard data, hard facts. They speak for us. [[Applause]] Five million, five million. And what was the opposition's advice on the fight against the coronavirus? Your Marshal Kidawa-Błońska was talking about us hiding the first case of Coronavirus. Yes. Today, now he's nodding his head. Tests, tests, tests. Mr Budka said that we are not testing to hide real data. And come to Silesia. Ladies and gentlemen! All those things that you can see clearly today... How did we do that? Effectively. And in fact, as I've shown even from this podium, we want to move this peak of coronavirus disease, to flatten the curve. All this was done as planned. [[Applause]] And the best measure is that... Why is he flapping his curve like that? But it's still growing. So that we never run out of beds so that we never have to make a selection, High Izbo, the selection that took place in the richest countries in the world. Not in Germany. This one can still be treated, or maybe this one over the age of 65 can no longer be treated... That's what happened in those rich countries. We have protected Poland from this. [[Applause]] Bravo! Go to Silesia, Prime Minister. The Prime Minister drives. And what advice did the opposition have? Tests, tests. Well, the opposition had the counsel to test everyone. That's not true. That's not true. No country has applied such a strategy, there has been no such strategy anywhere. Our number of tests per thousand. The disease has always been in proportion to what was in the West. Except they've been sick before. It was this kind of advice that was wrong advice, it was the advice that was supposed to disrupt the order of the fight against the coronavirus. First of all, you talked about how envelopes can be deadly, can be deadly, it's about voting envelopes, and then, a moment later, demand the opening of the entire economy, immediately, so that, after we've opened up certain sectors, we can say that it's too soon, but at the beginning, they can again demand that elections be in a traditional way and that the economy is immediately open. What's the consequence here? There are no consequences. There are no consequences in the Civic Platform. There was no consequence in the fight against the crisis 12 years ago - I will talk about it in a moment - and there is no consequence in your approach today. There's just an attempt at confusion, and there's counting on people having short memories. But don't be afraid, don't be afraid, Poles have a good memory. [[Applause]] Poles are able to remember what your advice looked like. And now, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, such an experiment for people with steel nerves. What would be the management of the pandemic at the time of Coronavirus on the example of swine flu in 2009. Today many people have forgotten that there was such an epidemic, a very dangerous epidemic, which was also rampant in Poland. And when there were more than 130 thousand cases in Poland, it was November 2009, the Council of the then Minister Kopacz was: do nothing, enjoy the spring - about this way - and then Prime Minister Tusk said that it was global hysteria. You were the counselor at the time. And then people died. Would Mr Arłukowicz's later Minister of Health be as effective as the campaign of Marshal Kidawa-Błońska? [[Applause]] But you're afraid of me, Prime Minister, really, one woman. It was a real threat to us, my fellow countrymen. Of course, fortunately, this is an alternative story, but it really threatened us. This was the response of the leaders, those responsible for health care. But you're smart. When hundreds of people died of swine flu together, there was no proper reaction on the part of the Civic Platform, on the part of the party of Mr Budka, Mr Schetin and Mr Rafał Trzaskowski. [[Applause]] More Trzaskowski? It hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it hurts, it It hurts. However, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing with a completely different situation, a situation where we are proposing new solutions in the area of health and the economy. And that is why I want to stress, going to this economic area, that there were also no textbooks here, how to act in this case, but there are some differences, very important differences between this and the previous crisis, which was far less than that. Szumowski+. All you have to do is be honest. Exactly, that's what we recommend. Everyone knows that, of course, every economic commentator knows that at that time the crisis seemed to be huge, because in Western European countries the decline in GDP was -2%. , -3%. This year, Western European countries are expected to decline by -10%. GDP, which has always been the highest since the 19th century, aside from the wars in some countries, because in others it was not so costing economically at all. Well, in the event of that crisis, it was a very characteristic thing. One of the main ideologies of the Civic Platform... Moravian. ...Mr Janusz Lewandowski said at the time as follows: fortunately we were immune to the call from the economy to implement stimulus packages, as in other countries. That's more or less a quote from his statement. Pretty much. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Entrepreneurs! Dear Employees! The Civic Platform would certainly be immune to your cry for help, your shield, your stimulation packages. [[Applause]] Fortunately, we were not immune, we listened to your voices. Perhaps you are interested in how this happened, and perhaps not, because you were practically not involved in government then. People help, jobs give. Even now, a few days ago, a few years ago, I think you've got a shadow office in your office. But there's been another embarrassment lately, because they didn't even know who the head of that shadow office was, and that was supposed to be the actual job. You're the Prime Minister of the government, hello. But I'm not surprised, 'cause for practically the last eight years, it's been a shadow office. [[Applause]] You're Kaczynski's shadow. Ladies and gentlemen! It is worth emphasizing very strongly what happened at the time of the 2008 and 2009 financial crisis. You used to make money at the banks back then. It was then established by the Civic Platform and PSL in the budget such a reserve, which was called the Social Solidarity Reserve. There were over PLN 1 billion in this reserve. Bankster. Let's close our eyes now. Let us drop the curtain of mercy on the fact that more than PLN 1 billion is not too much money for rapidly growing unemployment. What did the government of Donald Tusk do then? Any phobias, Prime Minister? After about six months, the government of Prime Minister Tusk eliminated this reserve, reduced it from over 1 billion PLN to about 1 million PLN. You were the one who advised me. For poverty, there was no money for the unemployed at that time. That was the battle between the Platform and that crisis. That's why unemployment, this bane of the Third Republic, back in a few years, has grown from over 8% over a few years. to more than 14%. So again the dramas of hundreds of thousands of people, again the great emigration, another emigration of people, again there was no money for those who needed them most at the time. There was no money for 500+, there was no money for family policy, there was no plan for families. There was no plan for families then, but there is a plan for families now. [[Applause]] For the Szumowski family, for theirs. Now this is the plan for families with the Civic Platform. It's a plan, let's call it a contractual plan, Rabia and Trzaskowski. [[Applause]] This is the Prime Minister. This is a plan to attack the families. This is a plan that threatens Polish families. We speak very clearly, we say very clearly that raising hands on children, on children in Polish families is unacceptable, that the line between family and ideology, your ideology, your ideological experiments, must be firmly set. We guarantee that there will be no interference, that there will be no interference in all of Poland, which is already taking place in some cities ruled by the Civic Platform. Violent convention. And we will lead to children being protected, protected from your various ideological experiments, from various world-view fanaberias, because children are sacred. [[Applause]] Middle Ages. And that's why, High Izbo, the Government of Law and Justice is the government that proudly wants to ask for a vote of confidence today... You don't even want to hear it with understanding. ...because family is just a sanctity to us, family is one of the most important paradigms of the whole politics. That is why we are in politics, so that the Polish family is strong and that there is a strong country. Especially your wives. Mr President, I ask you to remain calm. However, in the case of the Civic Platform there was no action that could help Polish families at that time. Szydło said that, too. They canceled tonight. That's what happened. What about helping Polish entrepreneurs in the times of our financial shield? Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have already committed funds to support Polish workers, we have already saved about 2 million jobs from unemployment, up to 3 million jobs directly. [[Applause]] It is already spent 60 billion PLN, and the entire shield is up to 400 billion PLN. To this we must add, ladies and gentlemen, that we have successfully negotiated... Effectiveness isn't about someone patting you on the back or putting you in a good picture, it's about hard negotiation. We successfully negotiated an additional PLN 300 billion, [[Applause]] except the budget for the next perspective. I stress: apart from the budget for the next perspective. And all this, despite the fact that the pandemic did not touch Poland as much as the south of Europe. Why are we doing this? So that Polish workers can sleep more peacefully. Don't worry, because today the whole world is in a huge jittery, living under a huge risk hierarchy. We have to offer solutions in a climate of enormous uncertainty and we do it, but we do it after hundreds of video conferencing with entrepreneurs, trade unions, employees, because that's real governance. That's why you go to politics to help people to serve people, to serve Poland. [[Applause]] And that's why it's something that's been sticking you in the eye the most recently. Because when the European Commission or the EBRD or other financial institutions around the world say that Poland will also be the least affected in the European Union this year by the economic pandemic, this is the best proof that our courageous actions, our allocation of billions of zlotys to help save jobs, is the right strategy. [[Applause]] And what did you do, for example? in 2010 or 2009? You've been selling national assets. We're recolonization. Yeah, that's... We - transfer funds for Polish entrepreneurs to save jobs. And you in 2010 - sales of Polish companies for PLN 22 billion. State stores... This is the difference between the Civic Platform, the party of sale, and Law and Justice, a party that cares about Polish capital, about Polish entrepreneurs, about Polish property. [[Applause]] You gave your friends at the bank... And you know what? They can testify to that. Ask Black Red White how quickly she got her money into her bank account to save jobs. Ask CCC how long it took to fill out the application. PKO, Alior. Ask Inglot if all these procedures were online. Ask the company Wittchen, Wielton. Ask these companies or ask small and medium-sized companies. How about some bank buddies? But you know what? They asked, only there was such an interesting circumstance. Well, when Mr Budka here or here talked to President Kosiniak, quietly, not knowing that the cameras were listening, recording, it was said that: this shield is good, right? She's good. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Okay. But then - to criticize. How you don't understand. Dear fellow countrymen! That's what they are: quietly admit that it's... [[Applause]] Just like Galileo, right? He said what the nobles of that time wanted to hear, and he whispered the truth. But you know what? For starters, even this. Thank you so much for that. [[Applause]] Bravo! And all those catastrophic visions you've been doing in the economy for a few years. Remember? 1 million electric cars. Do you remember what former president Schetyna said about 500+? Remember what he said about the budget? Remember what Mr Trzaskowski said, then Mr Trzaskowski, resenting that there will be a catastrophe when it is 500+... 100,000. apartments. ...there will be a disaster when the retirement age is reduced. And there it is. He's been saying that to Leszek Balcerowicz, who's been saying this every quarter lately, or maybe even every month, I don't remember. But don't worry about it. There was no disaster then, there will not be now. Just let us rule. Don't disturb me. [[Applause]] God forbid. Then the Polish economy will be in the best condition it can be in. Szumowski. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a few minutes on the economy. Now I want to talk about plans for the future, big investments. Ha, ha, ha! Here I want to talk about the great programme of many investments. And I would like to say that at this point, I would like to thank the President very warmly. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] The water mesh is the best. Because it's from the inspiration of President Andrzej Duda, yes, precisely from his inspiration, but not only. Ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, ooh, It was also from his plans, from his vision of development that a great investment program was born. Jacuzzi. Bajoro+. Maybe you've heard of something like this, ladies and gentlemen. New Deal in the '30s. Roosevelt or Marshall's plan? Did you hear that? How about the New Frontier Kennedy? No? How about Juncker's plan? Have you ever heard of anything like that? We heard Moravian lies. In recent years, similar investment plans, as proposed by President Andrzej Duda, have also started all countries, and in recent weeks all Western Europe. [[Applause]] Bravo! But you can't handle it nervously. Another inconsistency. They criticize, they do not want these investments, and on the other hand, the European Commission, after hard negotiations, where, as we stressed, we wanted an ambitious budget, Marshall's plan for Europe after the coronavirus, proposed a few weeks ago 750 billion euros just for investment. Is she good now, Prime Minister? And from this budget we have an additional PLN 300 billion, also for our investments. This is the measure of effectiveness and negotiating skills of the Government of Law and Justice. [[Applause]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, our investments do not establish a polarisation and diffusion model. Our investments are real investments for micro, small, medium and large companies, for small municipalities, for larger municipalities, for powiats and for large cities. Each of these 2477 municipalities will experience this investment plan. It's a waterbee. Each of the 380 counties will experience an investment plan that prepares the Government of the United Right together with President Andrzej Duda. [[Applause]] You've replaced the President three times. I don't think it's enough. These are investments, yes, very large, which will be noticed by other countries around the world. Some people won't like it, just like the Central Communication Port. It's a weed plus. I know that for some of you it would be better for the airport to be in Berlin, I understand, but we want as a sovereign state, a state with ambitions to have here the Central Communication Port, which will break even the non-election communication system. And yes, we want these big investments also to attract international trade here. It is about Vistula mine, a tunnel in Świnoujście, a new, huge investment in ports in Gdańsk, Gdynia. It's already rusted. You've got the helicopter. This is what the Government of Law and Justice does, recolonizing some of these investments in order to attract trade so that Polish exports can flow from here. It's a repatriation of capital, not a sale of property, just like in your day. [[Applause]] Bravo! High Izbo! These investments are not either-or: either schools or roads. That's what they say. That's another inconsistency. These investments are investments in both schools and daycare, as well as in roads, bridges and railways. It's investments in small municipalities, as well as our help to big cities. Ask your self-governments why they're asking for this help. Because you took their money. Because they know they won't be able to finance it themselves. And we give this help, also to big cities, to small counties, because our model of economic development is a sustainable model, as we have agreed with Poles. And that's what we do. [[Applause]] And that's why this Public Investment Fund, at the beginning of the 30-billion-dollar Public Investment Fund, for each of the municipalities today, for each of the counties, as planned by the President, will be available. This money will be available for a number of projects. You'll see about that in the next few days. It's important for everyone to know that they have a chance to get out of that vicious circle of coronavirus that the whole world has fallen into. This morning I read that in Mexico more people died in one day than in three months in Poland. It's very sad, because every death is a huge tragedy, but at the same time it shows some measurements, some comparisons. You should courageously look in the mirror and admit that our management of this crisis is effective both on the health, health, public health and economic side. [[Applause]] Now a few sentences about international policy, foreign policy. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of Polish interests also started differently than the Civic Platform: by making a complete list of our problems, deficits and with which partner we want to deal. Nepotism. Skier. Skier business. And we've actually managed a lot, and the first government of law and justice, and another one that I've been honored to lead. We managed to do this with one basic reason that we are looking primarily at Polish interests. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I know that some of the complex talk about languages that are important. But you know what? First of all, learn one language, the most important language: language of Polish interests, minding Polish interests. [[Applause]] Bravo! Szumowski. Silver towers. And that is why we, having the strength we have, almost a year ago, led to the fact that the most important function in the European Union was not chosen by the man who harmed Poland. [[Applause]] You gave the Germans back. We have shown what effective negotiations mean. And this man still remembers it very well today. Poland's effectiveness is still widely commented in Brussels today. 27 to 1 - that's your effectiveness. Of course, it hurts you, because it was your huge ally, but unfortunately that is what it is about doing Polish interests, not doing business abroad. If you travel abroad, take care of Polish interests, not fight the Polish government because it is a big mistake. [[Applause]] I, High Izbo, still today, can't believe that prominent civil platform activists didn't want money from the European Union. It's just... They wanted to freeze them, then they could freeze them as the Civic Platform ruled. Or Mrs. Róża Thun, who clearly said, "Don't give them money." Pinocchio! To them, or Poland. Or former President Grzegorz Schetyn, who spoke on these topics in a similar tone. Yeah, 'cause you're gonna steal it. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a shot to your own goal, these are goals that you shoot to the Polish society. Get off this road, take care of Poland's interests wherever you are. You can't even shoot. We can argue with each other, argue with visions, if there is such a vision on your part, if there is such a program, we will gladly support the programs, but do not harm our interests abroad. [[Applause]] We shape international policy in the spirit of some reflection by President Lech Kaczyński, who said that if someone wants to be a great nation, be treated as a great nation, he must want to be one. And if someone wants other countries to have respect for us, they have to have self-respect. And that's our motto. We respect Poland, we respect Poles, we respect Polish interests, even if the fight is uneven. You respect Szumowski's interests. Because the fight in Brussels is in a difficult field, there's a fight in a difficult ring, not quite our field. But we are not afraid, we are fighting effectively for the interests of Poland just to be able to say to Poles: we have won maximum all that we could, or maybe even a little more. Thanks to this policy... Compare what was once seen as a success in the previous perspective: what was there - about PLN 300 billion, with what is now going to be, from this new perspective - over PLN 300 billion and another PLN 300 billion from the European reconstruction fund, and about PLN 400 billion from the Polish state budget. From the Polish state budget thanks to sealing, thanks to tax sealing. [[Applause]] I also have a request for your local government officials who can't handle the distribution of funds. It's pathetic. Dear Members, to all honourable Members, check in your local authorities who has distributed how much money from the state budget. These are funds, dear fellow countrymen, the Treasury, the Polish state budget. We give them to micro-entrepreneurs to save their businesses so they can survive this difficult Schumpeterian hole in supply shock, the demand shock that occurred. But some local governments can't handle it. I wonder how it is that it's not usually handled by local governments from the Civic Platform. Well, very interesting. [[Applause]] Lie! But they often don't deal with many things. Somehow they usually come to the Polish state for help when they are not doing well. Look how the law and justice officials do it... [[Applause]] There aren't any, just one. ...like other self-government officials who are much better at distributing these resources. Do you want a vote of distrust for the Platform or a vote of confidence for yourself? Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the years before 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) Poland had the disease that President Jarosław Kaczyński described as imposibilism. Well, it's a well described disease already in the literature, I think even on your side is understanding: nothing worked out, remember, then, right? Electric cars, millions. There were no major projects, no social policy, no resources. If he's unemployed, that means he's probably lazy, so let him get out of this laziness somewhere. Farmers, as they suffer from poverty, are clearly not able simply to use the right instruments. Implosibilism. And now it's mastermind. Thanks to the steps, thanks to the path that President Andrzej Duda paved 5 years ago, we began to break this imposibility and later thanks to the governments that came, the governments of good change, we showed what the path of Polish work is, the path of Polish hope, broken imposybilism. But today we are in danger of another disease, today we are in danger of a disease that I would call immobilism. Stealing. Nepotism. Stealing plus. Immobilism, that is, the threat of a certain wedge, a certain paralysis, paralysis between the various major authorities in the country. This immobilism at the time of Coronavirus can be extremely dangerous, because it can lead to the paralysis of the state institution. It means they're really scared. In this way, these institutions will not be able to implement the vision of development that President Andrzej Duda proposed and which the United Right Government wants to pursue. [[Applause]] Watermelons. He wants and will implement in the next three and a half years. But not just three and a half years. You know what? Because we're not only going to win this election in 3.5 years, we want to win another election and another one. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. To change Poland to strengthen Poland, because people see that our policy is different, it is a policy for people. So soon Poles will really choose between the policy of such milking, the policy of marazm, the policy of immobilism and the policy of hope for the future, the policy of large and small investments... 1 million apartments. ...the politics of the growth of the Polish state of prosperity again. [[Applause]] Cars. Chasing Western European countries again, just like this yesterday or the day before yesterday, the newspaper from Berlin, Die Welt, also stated: we can catch up with other Western countries faster. There is an example, it seems, of Spain, that we can catch up with her faster than we thought before. So, so that in salaries, in salaries, in the quality of economic growth, in innovation, in modernization of the Polish state we are able to be efficient - for all this we need governments of consent, governments of unity, unity in the Polish country... National Unity Block. ...unity in Polish politics and that is what I will ask the High House for. [[Applause]] PZPR and our coalitioners. Dear Mr. President, Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! From this pulpit evenly 28 years ago, Prime Minister Jan Olszewski asked a significant question: Whose will Poland be? And that question is still valid today. After five years of your reign. No, it's not the only one that's up to date today. Moreover, it is being decided today, and it is being decided at that time. Corite plus. Is this Poland supposed to be a Polish elite... Which you created. ...who want to use themselves abroad in a comprador way, or were all Poles in Poland, even those who were forgotten, at the margins of the transformation process? For us, the answer is clear. They'll dig ditches. Should Poland be the Polish people free, or people who are subjected to various manipulations of powerful media power? On TVPiS. Is Poland supposed to be an ambitious country or a country that drifts somewhere in the ocean? Is Poland supposed to be an actor or a spectator in this European, or maybe even a global game over time? 27 to 1. Yes, we have such ambitions... It's not going well. ...to make Poland an increasingly significant country in the world. And these elections are being decided today. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! In the last three months, we have experienced a crisis that we have not seen in 30 years, at least 30 years. But it is also worth noting that these last 3 months are also a threat to some progress, to the benefits that the Polish society has gained in the last 5 years and in the last 30 years, because Poland has developed, of course. It's a big threat. And in this great threat, we don't need this brawling, pissing, and discord. We need unity, stability, stability... Dismissed! ...we need fair sharing of fruit, goods, especially in a crisis situation, not like at the time, in a crisis, shared the good Civic Platform and PSL. We need unity and we need peace to overcome all the pathologies around us... And who was the bank president then? ...all the evil that is to be eradicated. High Izbo! It's worth noting that we've handled the Coronavirus pandemic pretty well. Franchised loans. We're doing well, and we're getting better at the economic crisis. Frankowicz. Today we have to deal with the pandemic of political irresponsibleness. [[Applause]] Dismissed! It's irresponsible. Dismissed! Mr. President! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you all very much for your cooperation so far in this House. Give yourself up. And I'd like to end by saying a little bit like Stanisław Barańczak said to face the truth because the truth hurts. You told yourself the truth. Let's look Poland in the eye. Let's look into the eyes of Poland and Poles. Poland and Poles want to say... A bowl of rice. ...we want to say very strongly... Goodbye. ...despite the crisis, despite all the lies that fall from that side, we will continue to lead Poland towards ambitious goals... You'll lead to your goal. ...for a better distribution of goods, towards fair Poland. We're gonna do this as long as we're strong enough... Gierek. ...as long as there's enough life. [[Applause]] I ask the High House to give a vote of confidence. Thank you very much. Can you help? [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]] Some Members chant: Dismiss! Dismissed! Dismissed!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u2	Thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now announce a time-out. 13.20. At the same time, I inform you, I spoke about this at the Convention meeting, but I see that this information has not been passed to colleagues: I will only accept formal proposals after this point has been completed. I'm declaring a time-out. 13.20. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 13 mins 06 hours 13 min 24]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 24 of the agenda: Examination of the request of the Prime Minister to express a vote of confidence to the Council of Ministers by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. And the Prime Minister went and didn't come? Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm The debate on the proposal covers only the questioning of the President of the Council of Ministers and his answers to questions. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. I'm closing the list of people who have been asked questions. The first question is asked by Mr Waldemar Andzel, the Law and Justice Club. There isn't. Mr Boris Budka, Club of the Civic Coalition. One minute, sir. I'll follow the timeline.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u3	Thank you very much. There's no Prime Minister. I'm not surprised. We've had enough of these lies, we've had enough of this hypocrisy. What the Prime Minister just said was a farce, an attempt to cover this government's failure. Why didn't the Prime Minister mention the Janów stud? Why didn't the Prime Minister mention 1 million electric cars? Why didn't the Prime Minister mention how his government let his bank buddies make money by buying Pekao Bank from the Italians for PLN 123 and now the stock is worth PLN 54? You destroyed Alior Bank when you went after that bank. You paid 89, and right now it's worth 16 zlotys. What you're not going to do, you're going to ruin it. Once again, Prime Minister, we have enough hypocrisy and lies. Today, if you were a man of honor, for Szumowski, for Banas, you'd resign, not beg for a vote of confidence by insinuating the president, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which, by the way... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Bravo! They're getting on the nerves.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u4	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Let me put it this way, Prime Minister, about what I heard, that I had the impression that you had fallen away from reality, that we are dealing with the whispering of reality. And it's not like if you brag about your accomplishments, people won't see it. The more you talk, the more everyone sees that it's all drunk, false, and cheating. Prime Minister! Let me just give you two examples. The first one from Gliwice. Do you think this is a state repair you're saying in Gliwice students in Katowice are being interrogated by the D.A.'s office and the police with Ordo Iuris? This is the repair of the state that fundamentalists take over the state? The second case is also from Silesia. You're a Silesian Member. Is the fact that miners are in quarantine for 1.5 months and don't get results, that's the state repair? [[♪ The bell ♪]] I mean, really, a little... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u6	Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u7	This was one of the most insolent speeches in the history of this House. [[Applause]] You're a lot of history, as always, but it wasn't a historical performance, it was a hysterical setup for Andrzej Duda. Your PO-PiS wars, the division of Poland. Instead of reading Die Welt, start reading letters from Polish entrepreneurs who had to terminate or suspend their business, from 600 thousand. workers who have lost their jobs since December, [[Applause]] from farmers who did not get dried, from parents of children with rare diseases who cannot ask for state aid. Don't listen to the claps, just hear the parents who want their kids to have implants. You can't hear that, you're deaf to that. What about the disease? About the treatment. You need a doctor. I'll bet. I'm at your disposal. You need to be healed. with a severe disease of hatred. You're a vector for this disease. You spread it all over Poland. You want to divide Poland into the PiS and Platform. You guys feel good about this war. You have one program: kill the PiS, [[Joy in the Chamber]] Kill the Platform. The platform has... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...kill the PiS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u8	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u9	Honourable Mr. Marshal! Dear Prime Minister, Very concrete question: Is it true that in the fight against the pandemic, more newer, even better shredders have been purchased, which during this six-month period, which you are buying today's vote of confidence, will be able to cushion themselves in central offices? That's a specific question. I would also like to know if your government is following statistics, tragic statistics of deaths for reasons other than just right and fashionable this season's koravirus. Do you count all those people who have gone out into the world because you have not allowed beds of the besieged, yes, yes, you have not allowed their loved ones, their loved ones? With the highest surrender of the lower hospital staff. That's what's causing... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u10	Mr Paweł Rychlik, the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Dear Mr Kamish! There were no claps, only Members of the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]] I clapped as the main producer of semi-trailers - Wielton. Thanks to the anti-crisis shield which he invented and which works thanks to the Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, the main employer of the city and the land of Wiełno is functioning. And that's what kept the jobs. Prime Minister! That is why I wanted to ask the question: How many jobs have been saved, secured by the crisis shield and the financial shield? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u12	Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! The attack of panic, hysteria and powerlessness wiped out Prime Minister Morawiecki's statement. What's the purpose of today's hucpa? You feel that thanks to Szumowski the land is burning under your feet, you feel the falling polls of Duda and the growing Rafał Trzaskowski. Yeah, the Poles are outraged about making ice cream for the pandemic. Poles lost their income, and during that time relatives and friends of ministers from PiS obtained orders for overpaid masks, cavities and tests. Plan: the Szumowski family on their own. Giant conflict of interest: minister, his wife and brother, conflict for hundreds of millions. Yeah, you lie to reality, you enjoy statistics, but we're sick of this bullshit. Compare with other countries in our region: Slovakia, even the Ukraine you mentioned, about half the number of deaths per million in relation to Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You didn't do anything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u14	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u15	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! By criticizing your government, almost everyone ignores you, actually attacking Mr. Kaczyński, accusing him of the inability of the PiS government, and it is him they see as the leader of this rescue team, probably rightly. Today, however, you can go to history as a politician who takes responsibility for the government he runs. Let me ask you straight: are you the one making the decisions? Do you feel responsible for the scandals and abuses in almost every ministry, for Mr. Sasin's inability, for his family at Mr. Szumowski's, the chaos in Mr. Ziobra's justice system, which allows the fundamentalists of Ordo Iuris to interrogate students? If you really have any influence on your own government, then you can. That's what I'm going to prove today - by resigning myself. It will be the best celebration of the anniversary of elections, free elections, free Poland, which you are enslaved to. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u16	Member of Czesław Siekierski, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u17	Prime Minister! Why was your speech so confrontational? You started talking about the opposition's piss to call for unity in a moment. How's one to the other? What were you trying to get? Who were you trying to offend? Why? What's that supposed to do? You said we'd rescinded the modernization crossover. Did we take it back so we'd start coming back, going backwards? You're talking about prosperity. What are the indicators for this prosperity? Is it that kids don't have computers so they can learn remotely? You're talking about foreign policy. Poland is lonely in foreign policy, we are lonely. Where do we have a good relationship with who? Is it in the European Union? Have relations with Russia improved? I think... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u18	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Club of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u19	Prime Minister! In your speech, you have repeatedly advocated stimulating the economy with public money. I know I've asked you this before, but I'm gonna ask you and make you realize, do you know where public money comes from? Public money comes from the fact that the government takes it first from the economy, so the idea that you can stimulate the economy with the money taken out of this economy is the same idea as that you can pick up your hair over the ground. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] This is the idea, only more complicated. Because you follow the rule that if something doesn't work, then expand and it'll be harder to notice that it doesn't work. If something doesn't work on a small scale, it won't work on a large scale either. Second question: Why are you talking about the epidemic in the past tense? Because the data doesn't indicate that. You have cited examples of other countries. This is a graph from the Czech Republic, this is a graph from Belgium, this is a graph from Switzerland. We can see it's falling down there. He's always on a high level with us. Why do you say past tense? We just spread this epidemic in time, and we didn't fight it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u20	Mr Jan Mosiński, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u21	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, a few days ago, the candidate of the Civic Platform for President said that it is necessary to suspend, freeze, de facto eliminate significant development investments for Poland. Here I have a specific question about the Central Communication Port, because perhaps Poles think: aha, this is some point on the map where the airport is supposed to be and something else. We know very well that this investment is also so-called. nine spokes for high-speed rail. If Mr Trzaskowski's thinking were to be followed, it would also be the places where the railroad would run, which would lose not only jobs, but also the ability to communicate quickly with many places in Poland. I ask you to answer what will be the losses for the nationwide economy and for local economies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u22	Mr Adam Szłapka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u23	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, why did you invite us here as a matter of urgency? What did you want to tell us in this speech today? It's not like you're talking about entrepreneurs you've treated very brutally recently. Look at the picture. Didn't you say there was a safety net for the tests for the pre-school staff after they started this facility? Nothing like that. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, On the other hand, we have heard several times: the Civic Platform, Boris Budka, Donald Tusk, even heard the name Rabiej, Balcerowicz and several times the name Trzaskowski. And that's what this whole farce is for. Because you're afraid that the first step in June will begin to account for your scandals: the CBA, the Banasia scandal, the Szumowski scandal. That's what you're afraid of. That's why you're making this hucpa right now. There's one more thing I want to say. Times of crisis are always times of trial. On December 13, 1981, your president did not survive the test of time, failed the exam, and you will not survive the test of honesty now, in this crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u24	Member of Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, left-wing club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... Don't lie to me, Mr Snatch. You already have a sentence for a hat. Member, please. I'll wait till you're done fighting, right? But you're running out of time. Prime Minister! You bragged about a lot of things. Fortunately, you did not boast about it, and rightly so, what Minister Ardanowski is doing. And he does all he can so that no one at the hands of the oppressors can save the abused animals, the starving animals whose chains grow into the necks that stand in their own feces for months. But why are you signing up for questions, how do you know what's going on? Ardanowski says it's a scoundrel business. Scoundrel business is a mink farm in our country, Prime Minister. Unfortunately, even your colleague, the most important Member, Kaczyński, failed to stop this scoundrel business. Now we're talking about pandemics, we're talking about different problems, but we're not gonna forget about animals and saving abused animals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u26	Member Jan Rzepa, club PSL-Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u27	Dear Marshal, Prime Minister! High Izbo! A few specific questions. Prime Minister! Which prisons do the convicted people in the VAT mob sit in? Who lives in this $100,000. Apartments plus? Who drives that million electric cars? Who breathes in this clean air and in what places? Or maybe, Prime Minister, you can answer my question: Where do these shuttles from Szczecin go? Maybe I'd like to be a resident. I'm gonna scoop you up sometime. You used to talk, Prime Minister, about those 0.5 billion trees you're planting. Where are they, Prime Minister? Where are the trees? Where's the wreckage? Where is national agreement above all, Prime Minister? That's what we should be talking about. That's what the Prime Minister was talking about. Because if we're talking about a vote of confidence, then we also need to talk about what we failed. Then we're more believable. Prime Minister, I didn't get those words from you. But yesterday, your marshal in his message, because that's how I read it, it hit rock bottom... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u28	Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u29	Prime Minister! I listened attentively to this loud, propaganda speech. You won't scream, you won't scream. It's hard to refer to this whole serenade of manipulation, lies, empty-headedness. You have largely focused on the criticism of the Civic Platform, from the years 2009 and 2010. I understand that the charge is that the Platform, like other countries, did not waste millions of gold on a vaccine that was unnecessary. You would have wasted, just as you wasted 68 million PLN on voting cards. [[Applause]] Bravo! But the funniest part was that the Prime Minister was Donald Tusk's advisor at that time in 2010-2012. And what was even funny was that Mrs Kopcińska was the most applauded member of the Civic Platform, who was the Councillor of the Civic Platform in 2011 and 2013. Yeah, that's right. You are afraid that citizens will notice that you are no different from the Platform. 34 new taxes or raised taxes - that is the clou of the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u30	Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u31	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Prime Minister in response to questions about the extension of information, because he focused on national matters actually, on what is happening with us, but at that time, during the rule of law and justice, we have achieved very much success in international affairs. One can mention, for example, things that are very important when it comes to the eastern border, about protecting our sovereignty, e.g. to achieve energy synchronisation between Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia through the actions of Poles, thanks to the signing of an agreement with these countries in June 2019. But we still have successes within the Visegrad Group and a number of successes that we have achieved in cooperation with the European Commission and more broadly, including the United States. So I would very much ask the Prime Minister to supplement this part on international cooperation, which is [[♪ The bell ♪]] Cannons... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u32	Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u33	High Seym! I am in shape, because yet the aesthetic for our nation is important. Mr. President! Prime Minister! There aren't both gentlemen, but you're both yelling louder and talking faster. The Prime Minister's back. I wanted to appeal with the words of the poet, because it is wrong to shout and speak quickly, as a historian, Prime Minister, you know this: Slowly speak to us, Prime Minister, sweetly speak to us, Prime Minister, do not shout, because you need to know your price, Prime Minister, you need to take a clear life, Prime Minister, you need to sense when in the locker room the penultimate coat remains, you need to know when to get up and leave. In your locker room, your coats are dying. You have a chance. I understand that this is desperation because your days are running out, but it's important for Poles... As Herbert says, our refusal, discord and stubbornness are in the ground... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u34	Member Wiesław Szczepański, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u35	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In July 2017, the Sejm adopted a government project on National Property Resources. One of the flagship projects - Living+. You promised in 2018 first 40,000 and then 100,000. apartments. What's the truth? 867 apartments dedicated, 1900 under construction. So I ask: How many special purpose vehicles did the National Property Resources set up? How much real estate did he buy from the Treasury companies? How many positive decisions did he make in terms of the right to buy? Because today it seems, Prime Minister, that 100,000. it makes decisions and delays the sale of real estate by different entities by one month, and does not buy these properties. How many of the thousands of decisions that he spends 1,000 m on buying a place are positive, so he has exercised the right of first purchase? How many properties does he own in his resources? Because it turns out that out of those 100,000... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u36	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u37	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I was wondering what the point of your speech should be, and you actually answered that. You have to have self-respect. Why am I saying this? Because I don't understand what it was meant to do. I'd expect, for example. such an answer, why in each budget there is a less of 5 and 7 billion expenditures from the Polish agricultural budget? Why didn't the farmer Marian who spoke to me yesterday receive a refund for the seed for 2018/2019? Why does another farmer say: so far I have not received a drought payment? These are the minor problems of people who come to us, ask about it, and in your speech I would also like to hear the answer to that question. Most of the time, I heard the word "liar" that came out here, and that's a little worried about me. I also watched the applause from the gym. I saw those applause, but I didn't... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u38	Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. There's no MP... Remotely, Mr. Marshal. I don't see it. Meanwhile, Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u39	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The last months have been undoubtedly a shock to the Polish society, but also to the European society and the world. The number of diseases, diseases, and deaths that have occurred all over the world is actually frightening and puzzled to this day. The measures taken by the Government of Law and Justice caused the spread of pandemics to be reduced, but also the health system in Poland, the health care system stood at the level of the task. We managed to effectively fight, effectively cure all those who got COVID-19. There are also parliamentarians in this House or members of the government, self-governments who have used health services. And no doubt this aid was appropriate and effective. I have a question about the above. What is the rate of death when it comes to the incidence of COVID-19 in Poland? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u40	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor - remotely. You're welcome. Around the Confederacy. Do we have a link to your envoy? The system's down, the government's down. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u41	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, you said that Poles expect effectiveness. So I'm asking you, what's the effectiveness? The crews of the Wrocław police station, where was Igor Stachowiak's misfortune? Or maybe the authors of the hit list that's just been censored? Or maybe the effectiveness of pulling out the alleged arrears in paying the subscription from that 13th pension you gave them? They've taken all 13 of them, and they've even taken a normal one. But you're lying. So if you're talking about effectiveness, Prime Minister, I suggest you take this directly to yourself. Well, you did. Andrzej Duda's very beautiful polling minivan here, and you know what? Really, if this goes on, you'll lose no matter how much Rafał Trzaskowski wins. Thank you. [[Applause]] They're gonna lose!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u42	Mr Marcin Kulasek, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u43	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The PiS government doesn't like local governments very much. It pisses you off that there's someone in the field you can't control. For years, you've been throwing new jobs at local governments, not giving them money. Self-governments managed because Polish locals ruled by good hosts. Coronavirus epidemic caused the scoop to change. In order to fight the pandemic, local governments gave 2 billion zlotys from their own resources. By the end of the year another PLN 2 billion will be lost by local governments due to smaller revenues to the budget, and this is data only from large cities. This means less spending on schools, kindergartens, public communication. It's gonna cost people, not presidents of cities you can't stand. Hence my question: What is the government going to do to save local governments from the budgetary consequences of the pandemic? Will you support the Left's law on compensation for local governments? Prime Minister, enough stowaways at the expense of local governments and their residents. Self-government workers from all parts of Poland... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u44	Member Dariusz Klimczak, club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u45	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! If the Prime Minister is talking about efficiency, I'm very curious why he didn't mention the national food holding company. You've been building it for two years and it can't be built. I wonder why the Prime Minister didn't mention why there was no aid for agricultural insurance in May. This, too, was not mentioned by the Prime Minister in terms of efficiency. Or maybe the Prime Minister would be proud of why a few dozen billion zlotys each year is in debt to our hospitals? Why didn't you mention that in the last time PiS ruled, dozens of infectious units disappeared from the map of Polish hospitals? Why didn't the Prime Minister mention this effectiveness? Or maybe you can explain to the people of Sulejov and Piotrkov why the construction of the S12 road has been impossible for five years? The measure of your effectiveness is to take a car to the cemetery when it's closed. That's your effectiveness. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u46	Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. Remotely. Remotely. We're connecting remotely. Do we have a link to your envoy? Please, sir, you are on the air. Go ahead. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]] [[Which Member? Hello?]] [[We can hear you, we can see you. Ask me a question.]] [[Oh, good. I'm sorry, I didn't know it was my turn.]] [[In fact, we have a show of strength, an attempt to show that the Government of Law and Justice wants to unite Poles, and in practice this is, please see, just an attempt to polarize the political scene once again. But that's an introduction.]] [[My question is very specific. I mean Orlen. Orlen now owns less than 30% of the State Treasury. The golden action here comes from the statute. As a result, the government, the Polish state, can choose the board at all. Everything that's going on depends only on the statute. How does Prime Minister Morawiecki intend to protect this company from hostile acquisitions because the fact that we have a majority in this company is not based on the ownership structure?]] [[Applause]] Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u47	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The fact that there is chaos in Poland, we know, but now we have a huge panic attack. How else can we explain today's vote of confidence to the Prime Minister? I thought the Prime Minister had something to tell us that he was going to tell us what his plans were, he was going to take credit, and it was an attack on the Platform, on the coalition, on our politicians. That was talking about what we've been doing for eight years. There wasn't a word about what you did. In addition, I know what the 2 billion PLN you gave to public television went to because only your speech was broadcast in public media, and this debate is not. [[Applause]] Disgraceful! Shame! You're afraid of the truth. You even told me I was appealing for tests. Yeah, I called for tests. I think these tests weren't enough, because where they're being tested, we really know how many people are infected and asymptomaticly going through this disease. The tests are important. And please don't put any responsibility on the opposition, because the chaos you've brought... You couldn't even make choices and organize them right. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The opposition will criticize you all the time and tell you what you've done wrong. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u48	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u49	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I have listened to this speech and I wonder who we are giving this vote of confidence to today: the government or Mr Duda. It turns out that thanks to Mr Duda, we have all the great successes that the Prime Minister spoke of. Clearly, this is part of the election campaign. It doesn't make any sense that this is how we do it in this room, but it's your responsibility, probably in the election, to take responsibility. My question, on the other hand, is concrete. The Prime Minister spoke of many successes. I have a question because I'm from Szczecin: What about the fallen ST3 Offshore factory and 300 people who lost their jobs? What about the Polish Maritime Shipping, which records tens of millions of losses in recent years? What about the famous construction of the ferry and Szczecin Shipyard, as well as the keel that rusts in Szczecin? You haven't done anything about it yet. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question is, are you gonna do something about the industry... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u50	Mr Artur Dziambor. Third time's a charm. We'll try to connect. You're welcome, sir. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister Morawiecki gave us a speech here, which unfortunately for moments looked as if the Prime Minister was still living in the previous system. Speaking to the opposition that she should not speak, should not disturb, if it is not possible to influence the result, is a little weak and should be noted by voters, by all Poles. On the other hand, the Prime Minister is very eager to boast of his success, but he does not talk about the consequences. It was about how the wages of Poles increased. Unfortunately, it was said again that Poles are earning more and more, but it should not escape that they pay more. Many times we have read such an example with a casserole, which today costs 15 PLN at the lowest national level of 2600, and at 4 thousand, which was announced by Jarosław Kaczyński, it would cost a little more. And that should be included in such propaganda speeches. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u52	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u53	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! For the area of agriculture and rural areas, Prime Minister, in your government, the constitutional responsibility is borne by Jan Krzysztof Ardanowski, Minister for Agriculture. He insulted teachers in the near future, sending them back to the strawberry collection. And you like to lie. We see how he copes with the supervision of the horse stud in Janów Podlaski, while completely neglects his obligations and obligations, which he has announced, for example as regards farmers in the subject: the payment of drought benefits. He promised that this would happen in December Ub. r., then promised that this would happen in March. We have the beginning of June 2020 and many farmers from Wielkopolska, from which I come, and all over the country have not noticed these drought benefits until today. What's it like, Prime Minister? How does this apply to this beautiful image of Poland, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Which... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. We're connected remotely. Speech Off the Microphone Mr Radosław Fogiel, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u55	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, I wanted to ask a little more about this investment plan at the initiative of President Andrzej Duda, which the Prime Minister mentioned. Mr. Radek's first speech. [[Applause]] Whether in the fight against the effects of the Coronavirus pandemic and the crisis caused by it, but also in the fight against the pandemic of irresponsibleness presented by representatives of the opposition... It's not going well. ...will there still be support for regional and smaller towns to give them development opportunities? An example of this is e.g. investment in Radom at the airport complementary to Okęcie airport. But there are orders. I hope that the government will continue to present this vision: without complexes and such a purely large-town look and giving the opportunity to develop smaller centres. Thank you. That's very kind of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u56	Thank you. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke. We'll try to connect. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u57	I'm connected. Ha, ha, ha! Unplugged. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by asking a rhetorical question: Why does the government see only the leftist opposition and not the rightist one? Because the opposition says the same thing as the government says, it's no different from him. People go from P.O. to P.S., from P.O. to P.O., from P.O. to Left, and so on, they say the same stupid things and they don't know how to attack this government. However, the truth is that there is no outbreak of Coronavirus, none. 90% Not a single person died in the commune. Less people die a month than a year ago, two years ago and three years ago. There's no epidemic, I repeat. The government treats this epidemic as a coat so that various reforms can be made. All over the world, governments do exactly the same thing. And, by the way, I would like to condemn the Prime Minister for attacking Ewa Kopacz, the only person, the only Minister of Health, who hasn't taken a bribe and bought a vaccine for this completely fictional one, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Totally... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u58	Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u59	Prime Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As citizens, we will deal with the outbreak of Coronavirus as citizens and citizens jointly and severally, but with the epidemic, Prime Minister, homophobia and hatred that you, your party and the party media are spreading to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Poland, we will unfortunately fight for a very, very long time. You are the Prime Minister, but you are also a Member elected in Silesia, a Member from Katowice, and Silesia is almost every day pointed out by your fingers when you say the epidemic is over, only this Silesia... It is the Silesians, inhabitants of the voivodship, who refuse to rent accommodation units, they break through tires. Before Silesian children colonies, camps. How will they be treated when Silesia is stigmatized when your PiS messenger puts a mask in front of me, saying, "You're Silesia," am I wearing a mask? Disgraceful! Shame! Like a disgrace? The masks are for protection. It's Silesia that miners are waiting and texting you so you can just help them deal with the chaos of research. Bend over Silesia, please. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u60	Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u61	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! We have here a show of some buffoons performed by the Prime Minister. What you're talking about is lies. You're the Prime Minister on paper, out of reality. You're telling stories. Please step out onto the street and see how Poles and Poles lose their jobs and fall fighting against the company's everyday life. This is life, Prime Minister, this is reality - not as you present it. You're sitting in your comfortable office under the ceiling because there's so much stuff under the rug. So my question is: Who is responsible for the erroneous decisions of the issuance of election cards for PLN 70 million? This is the peak of buffoons and hypocrisy. When will we finally learn the truth about the family of the Szumowskis? What about you and your wife exposing the estate? After all, you promised this to the Poles and Poles. What about [[♪ The bell ♪]] construction... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u62	Mr Marek Sawicki, Kukiz15. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Club of the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u63	Coalition Poland Club. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! I wanted to ask why you and your government are blocking Polish farmers' access to EU money. PLN 60.5 billion were negotiated under the Rural Development Programme and only PLN 27 billion were paid to farmers in the 7th year of implementation of this programme. Over 30 billion are located in banks in Brussels. Do you represent the interests of Polish farmers or bankers in Brussels? Mr President at a meeting with the farmers said that farmers want to modernise, invest, develop their farms. Of €16.5 billion, less than 4 billion was paid to farmers for the modernisation programme. Aren't you ashamed? Minister Gróbaryczyk offered us to expand and deepen the river troughs. And I think that from this expansion and deepening, all that remains is expanding and deepening the troughs for the PiS-politics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The planter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u64	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You are so afraid that we are referring to President Andrzej Duda, but yes, it is from the win of President Andrzej Duda and what he said in his election campaign that a good change began, starting with the restoration of the retirement age that you raised. This is ridiculous. Tragedy. After Andrzej Duda won, there were other programs, among others. The 500+ programme that the president was able to implement. Today I called my daughter, the mother of three children living in a neighborhood, where families like her are many, and I ask: Beatko, what should I ask the Prime Minister because there are questions? Ha, ha, ha! And my daughter says, "Don't ask me anything, say thank you, and ask me to do so." [[Applause]] I also asked for other questions from local government officials. I heard: thank you for the money that goes to road investments. And you're lying and... [[The bell, the Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, the Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Boo-boo, boo-boo! That's what I said, Jabrzebek. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Look, thank you it's twice to ask and the families ask for this money.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u66	Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition Club. Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u67	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, High Izbo! I am very pleased that the government is taking up issues related to, for example, with collective transport, the topic of the Central Communication Port is started, but why is all this created above the heads of the inhabitants of Baranów, Łódź and Warsaw? Why isn't it all consulted? Why is the program "Rail+" just a virtual propaganda project just for campaign purposes? Ladies and gentlemen! How many apartments were created from the apartment+? How many cars out of a million electric cars were built? Why do you fight the harsh shadow of fog instead of ruling? Why are you just doing propaganda on TV instead of just dealing with problems of Poles and Poles that are really important? This is a difficult year, extremely difficult, is pandemic, drought, economic crisis, and you're just playing some kind of war. This is all outrageous. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u68	Mrs Beata Maciejewska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u69	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! It's a good day for Poland, because it's a day when you can see that it's falling down on the PiS, [[Applause]] uth Dude, even though TVP is still campaigning for you guys, you guys are still falling in the polls. What's falling? You guys are falling apart. And you have to come here, to the parliament hall, to make a free electoral convention. What, the poor guy's growing? Congratulations. You're talking about big investments, and you don't know life, Prime Minister, you don't know life. Do you know that 14 million people in Poland do not have access to public transport? And you're lying. Do you know that 45% of people up to 34 live with their parents because they can't afford an apartment? Do you know that 0.5 million people don't have tap water at home? Do you know anything about this? You're going to do anything about it... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u70	Mrs Małgorzata Tracz, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You wanted to convince us today how well your government is dealing with the health and economic crisis. You wanted to convince us that in the middle of the field you would build a new metropolis, and that the Vistula mine would change the region's economy. Prime Minister! It's time to stop soaping your eyes. Your government does not respect Polish and European law, wastes public money in the name of its own political goals or private interests of the hacks. Your anti-crisis shields are jammed like Swiss cheese. You can't handle the drought anymore. Your method of fighting ASF was a total disaster. Your government proudly excluded Poland from the European Green Order, denying us the chance to participate in a real crisis shield - for green jobs. When you get another chance with the votes... [[Ringtone, Vice Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u72	Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Today we are all wondering what is causing this motion for a vote of confidence for the government: whether it is an attempt to cover the Szumowski affair, the Sasin affair. Speaking of election cards, according to the Prime Minister's head of law, the costs of printing these cards are borne by the Ministry of Home Affairs and Administration, and in practice invoices for 68 million, as we learn from media reports, have been issued to the Polish Post Office. Polish Post has already paid 24 million of this amount. My question: What did the government do to secure the Polish Post to secure the funds for these expenses? What did he do with those expenses on May 10 for the elections that did not take place, as well as on June 28 when we had part of the elections in correspondence form? Again: What did the government do, or did anything to secure funds for Polish Post? And isn't that an act of harm... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u74	Mr Marek Suski, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! First of all, I wanted to advise the Prime Minister not to leave his coat in the locker room managed by the Platform, because you would have heard, "We don't have your coat, and what are you going to do to us?" That was your rule. You were talking about the PiS? No, you guys were in charge. Who was on the Economic Council on Donald Tusk? Dear Prime Minister, I wanted to ask if it would be possible to reduce the retirement age raised by the Platform and the PSL, whether it would be possible to find the money that was not available in their time for the 500+ programme, whether it would be possible to put an effective anti-crisis shield in place if it were not for good government cooperation with President Andrzej Duda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What deficit? Caryca+.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u76	Member of Claudia Jachir, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u77	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! If the country needs facials, you know you have to turn to a ski instructor. Texting and creating a banquet of friendly companies. This is how the state mafia works, even during the pandemic: quietly, efficiently and unfortunately very expensive for the taxpayer. It is known that if someone is looking for a job, he is not qualified, but he is a member of the PiS, it is the companies of the Treasury that stand before him as long as he can get away with it. Admit it: you are helpless against the crisis, because this crisis simply does not apply to you. You're rich, and citizens without the help of a wise government are suffering. Prime Minister! You ask for trust, but in a crisis, instead of uniting the nation, you share it. When are you gonna expose your wives' estates? You don't have empathy. Your pain is better than mine. You're destroying the courts because you want to remain unpunished. You're blocking information. You're not acting like a government, you're acting like a invader. After you, even the flood. After a year I ask again: How can I trust you? How do you deserve... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...to trust us? We've had enough! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u78	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u79	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Brazil, Romania, Scotland, Israel, the Netherlands, Ukraine, New Zealand, Ecuador, Rwanda and the Bahamas - in all these countries health ministers were dismissed or honorably resigned, among others. for bringing in masks that didn't comply with the certificates or for breaking the rules of social distance. None of these countries had a government contract for a friendly ski instructor. It is sad that, in a country that is supposedly up from its knees, there are no standards that are known at least in the kingdom of the Bahamas. My question is: When and does the government intend to introduce an honor+ program in its ranks? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u80	Member Maciej Lasek, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u81	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, why are you so incompetent? [[Applause]] Why can't you manage to waste taxpayers' money with the puriazum, which is the subcommittee of Antoni Macierewicz, a group whose only achievement was blowing up a tin garage and spoiling the last efficient tupole? [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Did you write the report? Shame on you! Why do millions of taxes go to this senseless action instead of helping entrepreneurs? Prime Minister! The Minister of National Defense is helpless in laying down his hands. Why? Because you're incompetent. But Poles have had enough and you are rightly afraid of it. The change has already begun, and the election of Rafał Trzaskowski as president will be a symbol of this. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u82	Mr Hanna Gill-Friday, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u83	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Mr. President, I see, he's gone. I wanted to take part in this election rally and commend the government for 4 years of non-activity of the program. I thank you on behalf of half of the young people in Poland who still live with their parents for the 2 million promised and non-existent apartments. On behalf of the second half, I thank you for the credit loop they have around their necks, because the President, who is no longer present, promised to help the French people five years ago, but unfortunately he did not keep his promises. There's a bill. Thank you for taking 100 million from the local government subsidy fund in April, from which 1/3 of the municipal housing will not be built. Thank you, because that shows your priorities. You have people, you have resources, you have good ideas, but unfortunately you prefer to make your own family on your own. Thank you. (Applause)
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u84	Member of Dorota Sunday, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u85	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Or maybe, Mr. President, because maybe you can hear what's going on at the Ministry of Agriculture. Since autumn, problems in the countryside have been increasing. I have six pages of what's broken in agriculture. Let the Prime Minister read it. First of all, promises. 3% GDP on agriculture from the national budget. How much do we have? 1.4, actually 0.4, ladies and gentlemen. It's a basic promise you haven't fulfilled. PiS doesn't use EU money. 20% the use of EU money in agriculture. EU average: 50%. The fall of family farms. You're the ones who care about the family. $100,000 is gone. flocks of pigs, mainly domestic. 40% farmers did not receive compensation for the eradication of pigs. And the Jans, because I don't have time. Prime Minister, were you there? Because I was there. The Minister is lying. I have accurate data, information and documents that Janów is doing badly, and we're not talking about championships... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u86	Member Jan Szopiński, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u87	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, does your government not have its own achievements, that you must 80% To sacrifice your speech to your predecessors? [[Applause]] And you've advised those predecessors. So when were you authentic, then or now? No, it's not him. It's the sharp shadow of the Prime Minister's mist. I would also like to ask you because Poles are tired of your promises: Where are the apartments for Poles? Where are the electric cars? Mr. President was in this room. Too bad he's not here. We welcomed him here with honor. We'd be honored to say goodbye, but we would also ask, Mr President, where are your electoral promises? Mr Suski spoke of them. You may, Prime Minister, develop this thesis and tell Polish farmers where there is a level playing field for Polish farmers. And one last thing. Your two ministers. One says the S10 road will be built, the other says the S10 road will not be built. I'd like to... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Mr Joanna Kluzik-Rostkowska, Club of the Civic Coalition. You're not gonna throw me out of here. The inhabitants of Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship want to know when the S8 road will be built.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u88	Mr President, please leave the speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u89	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Prime Minister, you are demoting the Prime Minister's office with your screams and your jarmar joke. [[Applause]] You will no longer be Prime Minister, and the office will have to be rebuilt. Just like the stud. Please think about it. I was also looking forward to this great success, which is the work of the subcommittee Antoni Macierewicz. On my own, I tried to find out what the outcome of the work was, but the mystery Mrs. Sophia told me that the report wouldn't show me, because it just wasn't there. The Ministry of National Defence asked if you knew what Antoni Macierewicz spent more than 2 million a year on, it was very silent. So I don't think you can even write down what Antoni Macierewicz is spending public money on for your success. Listening to your screams, I remember your predecessor screaming like that in the morning and in the evening. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I'm gonna... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u90	Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u91	Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! You're bragging today about how carefully you put your ear to it and meet social needs. So I have a question about who whispers in your ear, because you certainly do not listen to the voice of Polish citizens, employees and employees, ordinary people and their families. This voice was transmitted by the left in the form of amendments to subsequent discs. How many did you take? During the three months of crisis, you and your office leave ordinary people without means to live, with half the wages cut, on forced leave, without workers' rights. At the same time, you're handing over 70 billion dollars to the financial market. So far, as you can see, the only voices you're listening to are financiers, banks and major corporations. For them and for your fellow bankers, and even your fellow ministers, there is no shortage of money. The Poles miss them for that. The Prime Minister wants us to stop asking uncomfortable questions as an opposition and not interfere with the forging of a new order. However, I will ask: Why do you mention large companies in your speech, and you never once mentioned unemployed people? Why didn't you put in a guaranteed pension bell... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u92	Mr Robert Kropiwnicki, the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u93	High Izbo! We were wondering for a moment today why this is a vote, why this sudden initiative. And now we know, because there's a fire in the bunker. There's a fire in your house. It's all falling apart. People found out what the truth was, and you were scared. It's a mess. People see that the king was naked, that you simply went bankrupt as an environment, that your lies were exposed, because all the scandals: Szumowski, Banasia, Kaczyński, GetBack, SKOKs and many others - all this is unexplained. The D.A. is down. The courts are down. Where are these apartments? You guys really promised dozens of things, and it was all unfinished. Banana... ...because you take care of your family on your own: you arrange your sisters, uncles, aunts, sweats, because that's the most important thing for you because that's how you see it. This is an outrage. You should leave. And the Prime Minister should resign immediately... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u94	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u95	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! My question will address the problem of garbage contracts, which have once been introduced into Polish employment regulations for years, have contributed to the deprivation of millions of people's labour rights, thus systematically weakening the Polish Labour Code, creating further breaches in it. You promised to get rid of the garbage contracts, but I remind you that the order was to remove them, not move on to the agenda. The result of your government's negligence is the dramas of Polish families, Poles and Poles who lost their jobs overnight without notice, without briefings, and often without the possibility of obtaining unemployment benefits or benefits from government anti-crisis aid. On behalf of the work people left behind by you and your government without any help, I ask, why didn't you solve the garbage problem? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u96	Mr Szczerba, Member of the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You can't cover up Szumowski's motion for a vote of confidence. [[Applause]] They say fear has big eyes. Today Poland saw this fear, the fear of losing power. Ladies and gentlemen! When and where did this Satanic plan to treat the pandemic commercially arise? We would buy masks even from the devil," said Minister Szumowski. Yeah, that devil had a helmet and goggles and skis. And oscypki. And he was a friend of Szumowski's. Ladies and gentlemen! A ski-sleeping consortium is established. He's buying for 137 grand. at a warehouse in Rzeszów 7 thousand. Climb, go to the Ministry of Health, sell for 340 grand. How much does he make? 200,000. One day. Turn it in two invoices. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] This is your shield? A shield for your own.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u98	Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, the Left Club. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u99	Dear Marshal, Dear Prime Minister, When will the Law and Justice government finally take serious action to protect their health? But not as far as it's been. The fact that Minister Szumowski claps, and you rap, does not increase the expenditure on health care. You've accepted the bill, 6%. GDP, and you wrote down a false calculation there. You're counting GDP back to two years to fool health workers, but also citizens and citizens. I ask myself: When will you support the Left Act, which raises the cost of health care? But as it should be, as it is counted in all European countries. You are not cheating the opposition, you are cheating citizens and those who need to be thanked today for all the work they have done in the fight against the pandemic, because this is not a great success of Szumowski. It's a huge job of thousands of health care workers, from salons through doctors, through nurses who work for pennies because you can't pay them for this job properly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u100	Member of Maria Margaret Janyska, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The farce you gave in the Sejm today has echoed widely in Poland and Poles ask if you are not ashamed because they are ashamed that they have a premiere of lying and arrogant. To prove it, I quote a few words, of course not all: During Morawiecki's speech I turned off the TV. You couldn't listen to these slanders. I'm listening to this gibberish, and I don't understand. You can see a clear fear because they will be accounted for. Lies and slanders, and he demands cooperation. And now the best, ladies and gentlemen, at the end, and true, because that was the motive of this today's vote: Trzaskowski is unstoppable. They've got fear left. Bravo! And it is. Poles say we've had enough. [[Applause]] By the way, Prime Minister, by bringing you from space orbit to Earth... The Minister of Education should understand a little more. Yes or no? ...I want to ask: Where is the ring road of the Saw, the estuaries, the Obornik, where is the Rail+, where are the bridges+, where are the bus stops and the transports to the village? Answer me. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u102	Member Adrian Zandberg, left-wing club. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u103	Good morning, Prime Minister. For starters, congratulations. Very nice PR setup: you speak for an hour, we speak for a minute, there is no room for serious discussion. You've managed to escape a serious discussion again. Congratulations. But anyway, I'd like to ask you a simple question. Because you were talking about how well you were doing, fighting the crisis, but you didn't mention who at the expense. So I would like you to tell the Poles and Poles how many millions of employees have already been reduced, and how many more workers do you plan to reduce their salaries and how many of them will fall into poverty next year. Because that's what you do. [[Disruption of reception]] ...at the expense of employees, exactly the same as when you were doing It's hand in hand with Donald Tusk as his advisor. I look forward to answering these questions because she was afraid to answer them, Mrs. Maląg was afraid to answer them to Mrs. Emilewicz and me, and to the trade unions, so maybe you could finally get civil courage and answer these questions. How many employees have you cut their salaries? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u104	Mr Krystyna Sibińska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question of the credibility of the President and the Prime Minister. On 30 January 2018, the President is in Kargowa, Lubuskie Voivodeship. There's a heel slamming, there's an honor salvo, but there's a petition for the Kargova ring road. So? Nothing. You haven't found the president in a year, his officials haven't found the time to send this petition to pass on information. It's only after the local government reprimands it goes on. So? Still nothing. Another promise. The minister of the government, Mrs Elżbieta Rafalska and the Dajczak voivode, make a promise to the słubiczians: there will be PLN 1 million for the preparation of preliminary documentation for the Słubice ring road. So? There's nothing. This is all bullshit, and only in an election campaign can you promise. Promises are what you do best. But Poles have had enough, enough promises, empty promises of PiS politicians. Enough. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...and Trzaskowski will win this election. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u106	Mr Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! On June 6, 2018, I told you something that stuck to you, and it suits you just fine. I said then: you are a Pinocchio of Polish politics. After these two years, your nose grows even when you sit there and don't say anything. Because what kind of prosperity are you talking about? About the welfare of their colleagues who receive 50,000 in companies of the State Treasury. For nothing? Mr. Szumowski's welfare? What about Mr. Ziobra's wife's welfare? What about the welfare of bishops and priests? [[Applause]] What respect are you talking about? You're an architect of a government that's throbbing with hatred, and it's drooling with contempt that divides people. You're an architect of the government of intelligent people without a sign. And in the words of Jarosław Kaczyński, stay away from our children. I say it as a Polish woman and as a mother of three children. Stay away from our families and stay away from our children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u108	Mr Bartłomiej Sienkiewicz, coalition club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to thank you very much for your exposé, because the main character of this speech was the great absentee in this room - Rafał Trzaskowski. Not much, it was actually the reason for this exposé, the reason for this point in the Seym and the reason for this set-up with the President. This is the essence of this meeting today. It is rare to have such long - suffering in such an acute political dispute to give such honor and attention to the main rival. [[Applause]] But at the same time, I'd like to say one thing. Today, emotions in this House are meaningless because today real emotions are in Gdansk with Rafał Trzaskowski. [[Applause]] And from all over the country goes whispering: we've had enough. And this whisper will come to this House as well. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u110	Marshal Vladimir Czarzasty, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I'm just wondering why you're messing with us. What's that for? Is it so bad that you have to show your right-wing PiS unity? Is it so bad with Duda that he needs to be supported? Do you want to cover up your ministers? What else are you going to offer us to pay attention to the PiS and Duda? You're gonna arrest bike owners, shut down independent media, bring down food prices by law, or what's most important to you, why don't you start putting together charts? Sir, you're the same cynic. Like me or even bigger. Ha, ha, ha! But I'm not a liar. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u112	Member Urszula Zielińska, Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u113	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister has requested a vote of confidence in his government. Prime Minister, how can you trust a government that is the only one blocking the European Green Deal that risks putting Poles at risk of losing EUR 64 billion from the reconstruction fund? You've dismantled the state of law. How can you trust the Minister of Climate, whose only real decision so far was to allow the opening of new mines in Lublin? It is about the danger of water capture for the whole Lublin region. How can you trust someone who hasn't done anything about drought for five years has allowed for 8.5 billion losses a year in farmers, and now he's announcing a ridiculous plan for a small retention, standing next to a large retention tank. He's been laughing at it for two days, ladies and gentlemen, all of Poland. What about Tchaika? The only plan you've actually been implementing for five years is a plan for an environmental and climate disaster, which is why... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u114	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u115	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The Prime Minister, however, is a clever man. He came to the Sejm, asked us to debate. He made the cheapest electoral convention in the history of the Third Republic. Well done, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] That's not good. She was weak because there was a lot of sadness in this room. I have one important question for you, Prime Minister. Rumors are in the city that the sharp shadow of fog wants to organize the largest central pond at the National Stadium. Ha, ha, ha! I ask this for a reason, Prime Minister, because I hear Kazik started writing a song about it. Therefore, it is better to know so that you do not censor it later. I'm asking you this, Prime Minister, because you want to be serious here, we're serious. Prime Minister Glinski is already taking notes. Is it that you're so afraid that you're just left with the last time you're gonna bring Mr. President to the Sejm? I wish he hadn't gone, 'cause maybe we could do a good job. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] It's goodbye.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u116	Member of Mirosław Nykiel, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! What kind of nerve does it take to promote success at a time when more companies fall and Poles lose their jobs? How should we fear the victory of Rafał Trzaskowski to submit a request for a vote of confidence at the last minute to practice propaganda of success? In your loud and lying speech, you said that five years ago the door opened to a good change. You forgot to add that a good change for your family, for the Szumowski family and a friendly ski instructor, for Jack Kurski, for Father Rydzyk, for members of the PiS and their families pushed to companies of the State Treasury, earning a fortune while losing the value of these companies. What for you and your friends is a good change, for millions of hardworking Poles is a time of humiliation, shame, price increases and taxes. Prime Minister... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u118	Mrs Anita Sowińska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u119	Prime Minister! You're the one who's brazenly lying and soaping people's eyes, but people can see it, and they won't fall for any more of your deceptions. I have a question for you: Why did you exclude Public Procurement Law in the COVID Act? And I'm not just talking about tenders, I'm talking about free-hand orders and price requests. Is it so that Szumowski's taboons can be held accountable for the crisis? Is that what this is about? The impunity of politicians and guys who spend our money and make money on it? You ensure impunity for thieves in broad daylight. Where's that law you have in your name, where's that justice? You're even lying in your name. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u120	Member Jarosław Urbaniak, coalition club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u121	Prime Minister! You have been talking for a very long time, accusing lying to the right and to the left, but you have not answered the relevant questions, those questions which today are asked by Mr.Polish, about the Szumowski scandal, about Kaczyński's affair and his silver towers, about Banas's scandal, about Sasin's affair. You didn't say anything today about the death of Igor Stachowiak, especially since your police brutally pacified entrepreneurs on the streets of Warsaw. Where are the shuttles? Where's a million apartments? Where's a million Polish electric cars? Questions about your wife's estate. Questions about Mr. Szumowski's assets transferred to his wife. How many more of your co-workers have signed their assets over to their wives and husbands? And then there's this question about the famous tweet. Prime Minister Donald Tusk wrote: Matthew does not always miss the truth... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u122	Mr. President, what are you talking about? Member Daria Gosek-Popielek, club of the Left. We connect remotely with the Member. You're welcome, my fellow Member. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u123	Thank you. Prime Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! You are talking to the Prime Minister about the fact that Poles and Poles need peace, balanced and reasonable actions of the Polish government. Meanwhile, your government is closing its eyes on the problem of climate disaster. What are you doing, what are you gonna do with the drought problem? What are you going to do to prevent the catastrophe that will most affect future generations? You're interested in power and this term, not the future. Prime Minister, you don't fight drought, you don't take action on the climate disaster, you don't support farmers. Where's the anti-drying bill? What are you doing? You're negating scientific facts. You're saying some kind of pseudoscienceal, negationist nonsense. You cut out Polish forests, in Bieszczady you cut out the Carpathian Forest. You concrete the rivers and drain Poland, building e.g. Cascade of Lower Vistula, water grades in Sierzewo or Cracow Canal. This is the balance of your governments, the devastation of the environment and the destruction of our children's future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u124	Member Michał Krawczyk, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u125	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! The ground's burning under your feet. Your polls are dropping, the Poles are angry and they say we've had enough. What are you doing? You're desperately trying to save a vote of confidence in the government. You're announcing Duda's plan. The only problem is that one of its main elements is a water mesh for everyone. You praise the Ministry of Health, which orders masks without certificates from a ski instructor, and cavities from an oscypist dealer. You praise the Ministry of State Assets, the same thing that wasted 70 million PLN of our taxes on elections that weren't there. You are wasting almost half a day of Polish parliament on this political spectacle. First act: elections in 2015, second act: elections in 2019, third act: elections in 2020, but the next act will no longer be, because Poles are tired of watching this embarrassing [[♪ The bell ♪]] drama. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u126	Mr Krzysztof Smishek, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You have talked a lot about success in getting money from the European Union. You've been describing alleged success in the financial negotiations. You have not mentioned one minor detail that these are EU proposals for the time being. This effectiveness will only be shown in the negotiations with the Council or the European Parliament. There, in an alliance with a number of European policies such as Beata Kempa, Patrick Jak or Beata Szydło, you will be able to prove how to make this money. So far, it is your policy to deprive Poland of EU funds. For your local alliances with fundamentalists, the European Commission has just announced that there is a threat to financial resources for such voivodships as Małopolskie, Świętokrzyskie or Podkarpackie - you rule there. For racism, for homophobia, for intolerance. Instead of turning it on, you rule it out. Instead of connecting, you share. Instead of just sharing, you're filling your pockets with little pieces. You're dealing with issues. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ideological... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u128	Mr Marta Wcisło, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u129	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister's speech is a propaganda of success. How these successes affect the health and debt situation more than 90% Polish hospitals for 14 300 million? You don't have hospitals, but you give Szumowski. As these successes relate to the promised direct payments to farmers, for 126 thousand. Polish farmers? How do these successes relate to the sustainable development of the country which the Prime Minister promised, and the poorest regions of Lublin region, where you arrive before the elections, promise government orders, combat helicopters that are still missing today? The Prime Minister is a self-loathing man, and the self-loathing man is standing in a corner. And to that angle, you will soon be set up by the citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u130	Member Robert Kwiatkowski, club of the Left. [[Show must go on.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister's speech lacked one, and in my opinion it lacked concrete details. I wanted to help the Prime Minister. In this propaganda of success, as my previous speaker said, there were no comparisons. Let us compare the situation in Poland not with southern Europe, not with France, not with Spain, and compare it with neighbouring Slovakia. Slovakia's growth in 2019 - 5% ,Polish - 4.5%. Disease in Poland - 604 people per 1 million, in Slovakia - 279 per 1 million. Mortality in Poland - 27.5 people per million, Slovakia - 5.2 people per million. Prime Minister! The master of perfection mastered the art of presentation, not only in PowerPoint, as we can see, but the reality of screeching. It's not like we're an oasis of prosperity... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u132	Member Jan Grabiec, Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u133	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! We are all wondering why you came to the Sejm today to ask for a vote of confidence in the government at a time when Poland is fighting the epidemic, when people are wondering if they will have a job, whether the company will survive, how to get out of the economic crisis. You want us all to take care of your government. But when we heard fear in your voice, we understood what was going on here. You're just scared. You're afraid it's gonna turn out to be the most disgusting corruption in human misery. [[Applause]] Scandal! Disgraceful! And it's all going to come out in spite of today's show, because you do a lot of things in the light of day. 2 billion on TVP propaganda when the epidemic starts in Europe - it's your idea, it was the Poles who saw it. They also saw the Lichocke gesture here in this room. Poles see that President Duda is flying a jet to meet with the village housewives. Tell me about Gawlowski. Your arrogance, your abuse. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Power... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u134	Mr Monika Pawłowska, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u135	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! You've melted away the prosperity we have in Poland. Prime Minister, prices in Poland in April this year compared to April Ub. On average, the price of services increased by 4%, by 6.5%. Food - almost 8%, meat - 11%, bread - 9%, fruit - 22%, garbage exports - 54%. Unfortunately, health finance remains at 5%. Your party is now taking out the delivery room in Kraśnik. Your party wants to privatize hospitals. Where is this prosperity, Prime Minister? Where is the honesty towards Poles? Where's Mr. Duda's integrity? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u136	Mr Mariusz Witczak, Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u137	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! The Lord so obsessively says all the time: in your day, in your day. Prime Minister, in our day, you were the one who liked the Civic Platform. You were Donald Tusk's advisor, but you also enjoyed having fun because you had a good time at the Owl and Friends restaurant, which the Poles might have heard about. [[Applause]] Oh, yeah! Just tell us when you were real. When you liked the Civic Platform or today when you liked the PiS? You have to tell the Poles. But I'll tell you one important thing. In our time, when there was a crisis, we increased the resources for public investment in relation to GDP to 5%, which allowed us, among other things. To protect yourself from the recession. And today you're lowering public investment because you're barely spending more than 4% on GDP. But what's GDP? And this is a very bad forecast to fight the crisis and fight the recession. Prime Minister! Don't identify the fight against the Polish family with questions about the strange fortunes of some politicians of the PiS. Please don't do this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u138	Mr Waldemar Sługocki, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u139	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'm gonna ask another question from a series of these about when you're real, Prime Minister. Perhaps you were real when you were an advisor to Prime Minister Donald Tusk, who tweeted: Matthew does not always miss the truth. When he was my advisor... It's already been done. ...he said the president had no idea about the modern world and the economy. [[Applause]] Prime Minister! I have a question as to whether you have any idea of the economy and the modern world, because by listening to your statement, I have serious dilemmas as to whether you have such elementary knowledge. When you are comfortable, you refer to the budget of the European Union and talk about your successes. When the European Community demands the protection of the particular interest of the Polish state, it fights for the Polish government to respect the Polish Constitution, it is to you Not on your arm. Prime Minister... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u140	Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u141	High Izbo! Prime Minister! The Prime Minister already knows it wasn't a good idea to ask for a vote of confidence, [[Applause]] But the author of this idea confessed publicly and has already left the Sejm. You started with the question of what Poles need today. We hear the answer, because when Poles sign letters of support for Rafał Trzaskowski, they say: we want an honest, moral state, and the State of PiS such It's not. Today, the PiS symbolizes the interests of the ski instructor and the Szumowski family. The PiS symbolizes two towers and Kaczyński's envelope. You, too, are a symbol of an immoral state. Do you know what the Poles are saying today? They tell us how the Lord God created the earth on the first day, and on the second day Moravians prescribed it as a wife. [[Applause]] That's good. That's good. Lucky he didn't make the gun. The Poles have had enough and will say it soon enough in the election.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u142	Member of Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u143	Prime Minister! You say you have a policy for people? I think it's for people connected to the PiS. Hundreds of millions of zlotys for companies related to the family of the Minister of Health, millions of zlotys for felertic masks for a ski instructor, hundreds of thousands of zlotys on a pendant from a friend who didn't deal in health care products, but trade in oscypki. Scandal! That's the truth about your politics for the people. [[Applause]] You say you have an investment policy. Where's the $100,000? The apartments for the young people you promised? There isn't. A million. Where are the shuttles? There isn't. Where are the electric cars? There isn't. There isn't. If Pinocchio in this podium had spoken of your promises, he would have smashed a window in the door at the end of this room with his nose. [[Applause]] Your government doesn't deserve to be trusted. Your government deserves to be resigned. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u144	Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u145	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In his populist speech, Prime Minister Morawiecki asked what Poles needed, and then he answered himself that they needed efficiency and justice. Well, a little bit about your effectiveness. Is it a measure of your effectiveness to purchase masks without the approval of a ski buddy of Minister Szumowski, or maybe 70 million thrown into the mud by Mr. Sasin? You guys are effective, you have a category of things that you're very, very efficient in. I'll tell you what it is, Prime Minister. Sweeping under the carpet. Szumowski's scandals, GetBack, Silver, Banasia, hiding your assets. Gawłowski. You're actually the best at this, and you're very good at this. [[Applause]] The whole country you're managing is doing one thing: hiding the PiS scandal. That's your efficiency, and that's what you're talking about. Only this is not the effectiveness that Poles need. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u146	Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u147	Prime Minister! You threatened Poles today with disagreement, but Poles today are most afraid of the dishonesty of your government. Poles are afraid that they will go to the hospital, to which the Ministry of Health sent bad masks bought for 5 million PLN from a ski instructor, a friend of your government minister. Poles are tired of the fact that if no one looks at your government's hands, even more public money will go to your families, to your friends. Poles are fed up with the fact that all the big investments announced mean big money for your friends, for your families. Prime Minister! By making a motion for trust with Andrzej Duda today, you are again dealing with yourself, which is not what the Poles are paying you for. And I have a favor to ask of you. Could you do something good for once and instead of applying for a vote of confidence, just resign? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u148	Member Tomasz Zimoch, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u149	High Seym! Prime Minister! You were in a trance today, but with your favorite ping-pong table, you wouldn't win a set. Because you are in a constant trance of hatred, boots and contempt, a continuous trance of partitioning Poland and Poles. Today you said: us and them, better and worse sort. And the wise prime minister should listen more to not his own captors, but the opposition. Today you confirmed that you are the Prime Minister of the Party, you are not the Prime Minister of Poland. Why? Why today, June 4th, on such an important day for Poland, do you confirm this party? Your speech is Niagara dull propaganda, as in the worst of times. You must be running out of oxygen during the campaign, and seymming isn't a rally. Degrengolads of seismicism today continue. That's why I'll remind you: we've had enough. And if you've had enough, please support the list of candidates for the Civic Coalition Rafał Trzaskowski. You're welcome to join us. [[Applause]] No, no. Not all premiers of the Third Polish Republic were partying.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u150	Mr Michał Grammark, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u151	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! One of your megalomaniac visions concerns my region, my little homeland. It's called a program for Silesia. It was supposed to be an epochal event for the region, yet quietly about it lately. There were supposed to be regular reports that you promised in response to my interpellations, and there were no reports. There were supposed to be billions for investments, and so far it ended on the website for several hundred thousand zlotys. There was supposed to be a test ground for drones, and there was a sexual scandal in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa and related cancellation of the board of one of the daughters' companies. I'm sick of your propaganda. I'm waiting for you to show me what you really did for Silesia. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u152	Mr Czesław Mroczek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u153	High Izbo! Prime Minister! You're already so weak that today you want to show that you have the support of Jarosław Gowin. But this is a good time to start clearing up your governments. The result of your governments is a dramatic reduction in the combat potential of the Armed Forces. We had a black series of aviation, crashes, four combat planes destroyed, and more helicopters. Instead of helicopters, you bought them. five planes to carry power, two more leases, and Prime Minister Szydło and Marshal Kuchciński flew military planes in addition. You, as Minister, did not enter into an agreement to purchase helicopters, claiming that offset was insufficient, but your government has now concluded an agreement to purchase F-35 planes at all without offsets. And one more big investment issue. You always start them in the election campaign. In 2015, you promised to build a carbon block in Ostrołęka. Now she's... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Shame!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u154	Mr Barbara Nowacka, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u155	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Fear, huh? You must have come here. To scream, to ask if your colleagues support you. Why don't you go to the P.I.S. TV and they'll pet you. Because people, these people met on the streets, they just don't want you because they see this scale of hypocrisy and hypocrisy. You have become an elite, an elite of power and arrogance, an elite of pride, and you forget those who were only needed for election. You want to build a community, you divide and exclude. This is not patriotism, Prime Minister - screaming. Patriotism is taking care of the poor. You were supposed to be building apartments. Today, you're offering water holes in a richer garden. You say the wages have increased. Look at them galloping prices. You're shutting down county hospitals. And it's the poorest people in your reign that are wrong. And that's why these people are telling you enough. Enough hypocrisy and hypocrisy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u156	Mr Dariusz Joński, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u157	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Today's show was supposed to cover up Minister Szumowski's scandal, but it wouldn't cover it up. Well, there was a lot about the pandemic, you were talking about it, but somehow you didn't mention anything about the supplier of left masks, trimmings, tests, you didn't mention the biggest conflict in the history of the minister's interests in the government when you handed over almost PLN 200 million to companies associated with it. And these last months and last days have shown that another agency - the Agency for Medical Research, which you allowed to establish, has allowed a good case to be chosen by the company which is connected with the Szumowskis, and to finance almost PLN 1 million. Prime Minister, I want to tell you yes. Well, there is a country - Bosnia and Herzegovina, where the prime minister was arrested for such things. We in Poland still have to wait for this time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u158	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u159	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You're talking about honesty. So just stand there and tell all the Poles what your fortune is. The simple question is, why are you hiding your own fortune? Because everyone would like to know that answer. Just a few months ago, with your assistant Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, what did you tell all the Poles? The electricity prices aren't going to go up. How much did they go up? A dozen percent. Another lie. You said that we would use only Polish coal. What's the truth? The Russian coal is flooding us, Prime Minister, and you're not doing anything about it. [[Applause]] You spoke about the issue of young people, how important this is - the perspective. How many apartments did you build? $1,000. You said 100,000. And the truth is clear. Because you only told the truth once in Owl and Friends. What did you say about the young people? What did you say about the young people? Their expectations must be lowered, and they will be... for a bowl of rice. And that's the truth about you. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u160	Mr Małgorzata Niemczyk, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u161	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today is the 31st anniversary of regaining independence, regaining freedom. On this very important day for Poles, on June 4th, I ask you, Prime Minister, if it would be worth it to finally stop lying and telling stories, because it is about time. As far as your vote is concerned, it can only be compared to a drowning man who grabs razors. Clearly you have a problem with the candidacy of such a strong personality as is Rafał Trzaskowski. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You are terrified of mobilizing Poles and growing support posts. Don't feel any consolation. I suggest that instead of telling the cocopoles and turning the Vistula bat around, trust the Poles. Maybe we shouldn't turn back the Vistulas. Perhaps it is worth believing Poles who know who to choose, because Poles are wise and reasonable people. That's what we think. And you focus on clearing up your subordinates for unfulfilled promises, for how money is spent from public money to the right and to the left, or rather to the right, for not being able to investigate, for not respecting the law, for the constitution, for ordering, for strange... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u162	Mr Agnieszka Hanajczyk, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u163	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! After your speech, I read on social media an entry like that that you were completely out of control. Maybe I wouldn't be so hard on judgment. I think you're watching Avengers movies all the time. More than that, you think you're a superhero, [[Joy in the Chamber]] That you're such a man. Captain America. That horrible opposition. You will protect Poles and Poland from this total opposition. I don't even want to know who the captain is, Iron Man. I don't like Captain Marvel so much that I don't want to think about it. But I must disappoint you, Prime Minister. You're talking about impossibility, and I'm saying there was a lot of infantilism in your speech today. [[Applause]] I have to tell you, the Poles really don't live in this movie. Not much, they don't live like a movie at all. I don't know if you know what poverty is, what entrepreneurs think today, [[♪ The bell ♪]] What the workers are thinking today, what health care looks like. I feel like you're coming home and you're gonna watch this movie again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u164	Mr Krzysztof Piątkowski, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u165	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! You didn't make it tonight. It's a bad show, and we all know his finale. We know the outcome of this vote. Your colleagues will not disappoint you, they will vote as the president has decided. You're gonna keep your jobs for a while, 'cause you can take care of yourselves first and foremost. And those who criticize you, who do not appreciate you, who have the courage to tell the truth, you ridicule them, mock them, humiliate them for 2 billion zlotys of public television. You did this to Polish teachers, doctors, judges, and recently you called the defense attorneys dwarfs. I'll tell you what you're getting a vote of confidence for today. For shame, for hypocrisy, for lying, for hypocrisy, for caring for private interests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u166	Mr Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! I really want to ask you quite seriously on behalf of people who are independent and disabled when you implement, Prime Minister, the 2014 Constitutional Court judgment you requested. It's been almost five years, and you can't execute that sentence. We have managed to increase the care provision, so that the parents of disabled children today have over 1800 PLN, but the carers of adults with disabilities have less than 600 PLN. And you two can't do that second step. That is not enough, a special case law system was to be established, and you have signed the order that it will be until the end of June 2018. He's gone, and the Solidarity Fund, which you've created to support people with disabilities, you've actually taken away from them. He hasn't even been able to function for a year and the disabled can't see him anymore, and this year, as if it weren't enough, you took... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u168	Mr Monika Wielichowska, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u169	Prime Minister! I don't think you're getting along with this campaign, and they're freaking out the polls because today, Mr. Prime Minister told us stories again. However, he did not notice that it did not work anymore, that Poles and Poles had had enough. You're just talking about one thing. Prime Minister! Instead of saying bad things, it's better to show the promises that have been made, so I'm asking, when are you going to show President Duda a tour of 100,000? built apartments for young people? When are you gonna take the president for a ride in one of the million electric cars? [[Applause]] I know it's cruel. Well, maybe a prototype. You would then go after these 100 built bridges, through these 100 new bypasses, and during the ride the president would tell you what he wanted, but he wouldn't raise the tax-free amount as he wanted, but he didn't close the garbage deal as he wanted, but he didn't lower the VAT, as he wanted to help the franchise, but he failed them, as he wanted to pay the farmers, but he couldn't. That's what people are asking today, Prime Minister, because they've had enough... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u170	Mr Waldemar Andzel, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u171	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking the Government of Law and Justice [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's government for effectively solving the problems of the pandemic of Coronavirus. Szumowski! Oh, my gosh! Oh, my gosh! How quickly did the Polish government act by introducing restrictions related to the epidemic of Coronavirus? What does it look like with other Western European countries, Prime Minister? Total opposition only disturbs and harms Poland. I also have a question for the Prime Minister: How much is the value of aid packages prepared for Polish entrepreneurs and employees? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Property.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u172	Thank you. Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u173	Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today, today, we judge the government in one context. This is the context of dealing with both the disease and the economics in times of pandemic. But we also evaluate the achievements of recent years, when it was this government that managed to transfer funds to the Polish family. And it's extremely valuable. As for the pandemic, we have a situation where we have actually the best indicators in Europe. If that were true, we'd be happy. I know that the opposition probably bites its teeth out of rage that there aren't thousands of infected, [[Joy in the Chamber]] There aren't thousands of dead. Yeah, you were hoping there might be misfortune. There is no misfortune, but it is all thanks to the very prudent decisions of Minister Szumowski and Prime Minister Morawiecki. Yes, these prudent decisions Poles appreciate [[♪ The bell ♪]] And they're grateful for those decisions. [[Applause]] It's a tragedy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u174	Thank you very much. The list of Members enrolled in the task of questions has been exhausted. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 10 hours 15 min 15]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 24 of the agenda. Please take the floor of the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u175	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I've written down most of the questions here. The ones I've written down and the ones I thought were relevant, I'll try to answer. They were all material. To the others, of course, as usual, we will reply in writing. Some of them I tried to group together and some of them are more general, so I will also allow myself some more general comments. Some of the questions were about military matters, but there was even more attack on military purchases, there were voices that the F-35s weren't needed, it's about helicopter purchases. Well, ladies and gentlemen, first of all when it comes to the purchase of helicopters, what we had in mind with the Minister of National Defence, with Minister Błaszczak and earlier with Minister Macierewicz, is the question of building the potential of Poland where possible. Unfortunately, we do not yet have the capacity, competence and technology to co-construct F-35s, F-16s in any way, and therefore indeed the purchase in the case of F-35 took place without offset. We talked about it loudly so that we could make this purchase as soon as possible. By the way, I'm also gonna talk about the votes on the Territorial Defense Army, because critical voices are coming up, too. A year or two ago, Mr Semoniak, Member of the Civic Platform, talked about the fact that the Territorial Defence Army were weekenders in uniform, and Mr Kosiniak-Kamish spoke about the need to eliminate the Territorial Defence Army because they did not serve anyone. He never said. I would like to stress that, on the occasion of this pandemic, this is the most recent time that we are seeing today, the Territorial Defence Army, but also the soldiers of other formations have taken care of a lot of areas where we had to help, for example. In the 530 DPS of 824 the Territorial Defence Army helped disinfect rooms, deliver food, isolate, and thus played a very positive role in this difficult period of the first few months, the first 2 months of the pandemic. So I want to thank all the soldiers, as well as the health services, but I want to thank the soldiers and also the soldiers of the Territorial Defence Army very warmly for your support. [[Applause]] There were some questions about agriculture. I want to answer them very specifically. It was about seed subsidies. I would like to stress - perhaps the Member did not have complete information - that there was a full payment of all, in full, of all seed subsidies. There was also a question about insurance. And the drought? Agricultural insurance. There's no backlog here either. Check it out in the budget. We spend significantly more money than the country on agricultural insurance. There was also a question in the area of agriculture about drought. I'll answer that. As far as drought is concerned, payments were made for 92% of all farmers. In addition, I would like to stress this difference, because really Members of the opposition who are talking about drought, let pro domo sua in this case, hit their own chest and see how much you paid in a similar drought in 2015. But we are talking about what is now, Prime Minister. The payments in the case of the Civic Platform and PSL amounted to approx. 400 to 500 million PLN. You're obsessed. The comparable magnitude of drought losses is 2200 million, 2400 million from our government. [[Applause]] Five times more. Now you have spoken in a few voices about social matters, the issues of the unemployed. This is the topic that the government of the United Right rests on, and I will stress it most at heart. [[Applause]] I mean, we're spending most of our financial shield, our crisis shield, just saving jobs. There were questions about the unemployed. Well, I would like to stress that unemployment growth is always a tragedy for us, it is always a human drama, but it is also necessary to show these increases in comparison with Western European countries and Eastern European countries. In this case, you can see that the anti-crisis shield, the financial shield, works, that we are trying to protect jobs. Look at the statistics of the family ministry, look at Eurostat statistics, unemployment growth in Central European countries, for example in Bulgaria, Romania recently. But you are the Prime Minister of Poland, not Bulgaria. But also in Western Europe. You asked me, you asked me about examples from Eastern Europe, so I'm giving them. In Western Europe, the rise in unemployment in Spain, Italy or France in these areas... You're not the Prime Minister of Spain. ...in these countries he has actually done very well. I am pleased that our programmes are primarily focused on defending jobs, and this is actually working for the time being. We're gonna do everything we can to make it even better in the next few months. In this context, I would also like to thank the President very much for the idea and for the legislative proposal on the solidarity allowance. [[Applause]] It's election bullshit. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! For some of you, it's a lie, and I'll say it's a rescue for a lot of people. Thank you, Mr President, for additionally proposing and, I hope, the High House will pass this vote, a solidarity supplement of PLN 1400 net, because it will provide some support for those who will be affected by the tragedy of unemployment. I hope it's temporary. We will seek to create new jobs as soon as possible. There were questions about health care, about spending on health care. Well, dear fellow countrymen, High Izbo, let it sound here: between 2008 and 2014 for health protection, the Platform and PSL coalition spent less in proportion to GDP. She's obsessed. In 2008 it was 4.72% , 2014 - 4,41%. And this, honourable Member, is the same measure that is today. We didn't change that measure for the right statistical view. After all, if we were doing this in proportion to GDP for this year, assuming last September, we would be very wrong because there was a planned increase of 3.8%. , and there will probably be a decline in GDP, a decline in the smallest among all the countries of the European Union, it is worth emphasising. Well, we'll see about that. Therefore, in view of this, today it is important to stress that the expenditure on health care will exceed 5% this year. Thus, after receiving a mandate from the previous rule of law and justice, the Civic Platform inherited 4.72% And there was a drop in spending to 4,42%. He's obsessed with the Platform. In our case - more than 5% This year. These numbers don't lie. [[Applause]] It was supposed to be 6%. There was a question about the RDP, about the Rural Development Programme. Well, it's already 70% here. the funds have been contracted and the Rural Development Programme has benefited more and more from more and more beneficiaries. I'm sure we'll fit in on time, fit in the budget. Remember that the n+2 rule applies, and for some expenditure, even n+3, so there is no concern about the use of these funds. Manipulation. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a question about agricultural subsidies. This is our very important promise. High Izbo, and especially the honourable Members of the Law and Justice, who voted very strongly for this, you have applied for these additional subsidies, we have, already today I can say, a great success, also thanks to our Commissioner Janusz Wojciechowski. [[Joy in the Chamber]] We have proposed more expenditure for the European Union on the common agricultural policy and these more expenditures, by €24 billion, are included in the future. [[Applause]] This already means that these subsidies, speeding up growth to average subsidies will certainly be much faster than in the case of the governments of the Civic Platform PSL. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a question about people with disabilities. Here it is worth highlighting this additional financial supplement that we have proposed and implemented. This is a real addition. This is the supplement of 500 PLN, which is appreciated by these environments. I had a meeting with these communities, foundations, associations. He's appreciated. This help is always too small, and I agree. We will always strive to ensure that the weakest members of our community, our national community, receive more support from the state. But compare this: in the times of the governments of the POs and PSLs, which today raise this point, [[Joy in the Chamber]] They have the nerve to lift it up... Five years. ...was expenditure of PLN 15 billion. Today it is 27,5 billion PLN. [[Applause]] That's a big difference. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski - I am sorry, one thing I must say - as he said about the propaganda of success, I only smiled at myself very deeply in my soul. That's the way I'm gonna put it. [[Applause]] Go fix yourself. Kurski's better. Ladies and gentlemen! However, because here you talked about various matters related to sharing and Mr.Trzaskowski, Mr.Rafal Trzaskowski also raised something like this... But he didn't ask a question. ...then I want to ask you this question: Who shares more? Are those who use the tactics of total opposition, the tactics of opposing everything that is good, and then, after years, agree that something was really good, and in panic they change their mind, as compared to 500+ or our economic policy... But you're cheating now, Prime Minister. ...or those, like us, who base information on facts? I gave a lot of facts today, lots of numbers. You didn't say anything about it. [[Applause]] TVP, yeah. That's not sharing. This is a call to talk about facts, to talk about what could be a good starting point for a common denominator on different issues. One minute per person. We are open to cooperation, also with the opposition, for the next 3.5 years. We saw a minute per person. We do not want just one thing: we do not want total opposition, the opposition, which in this way really makes the deepest division in society. You don't want to. It's by completely denying everything good, by manipulating, by using your propaganda, because yes, you are primarily using the propaganda of your media... But yours is better than ours. ...media unfortunately mostly on your side, because that's what the Third Republic looked like. We don't have any media. You have the media, and you know it. So it is worth noting, of course, that we have huge successes here, some of which I have shown, and you have not been able to relate to these facts. In a minute, Prime Minister? Ladies and gentlemen! Now, one question. Since there were also questions about salaries in the administration and elsewhere, I would like to ask about the remuneration of the directors of the Warsaw City Hall. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Can you answer me when it comes to this salary because it was... There was no question about that. Answers. You're answering now. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I see you're trying to panic them now, but they're important. Dear fellow countrymen, look how much money they make... Answer me. ... each other's sons by giving each other, the directors of the Warsaw City Hall. Let's point that out, 'cause then maybe we'll find out... CPK. ...that the ministers of the government of the Brightest Republic of Poland earn much less than the directors of the Warsaw City Hall. [[Applause]] Rewards! On one point, I would like to agree with Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus, if I remember correctly, who said: stay away from our children. Yes, Member, stay away from our children. [[Applause]] Bravo! There were attacks on the police, verbal attacks on the police, her role. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the policemen, Minister Mariusz Kaminski, for his excellent supervision of police work, for, if I recall correctly, 7 million... Fucking people. ...visiting homes where people were in quarantine. This is also part of the success of the fight against the coronavirus. [[Applause]] This is part of what I was talking about earlier. Squealing entrepreneurs, too? You asked about entrepreneurs, you asked how many people they were receiving support. Today it is 0.5 million entrepreneurs who have received support in various ways, but above all a direct payment. Because yes, this crisis is absolutely unique. It's a liquidity shock. Everyone's income suddenly dropped. The economists have never faced such a crisis in theory before, and no one has ever anticipated such opportunities. At the same time it is also a demand shock, and at the same time also hijacked supply lines, production lines, and thus also a supply shock. So we proposed a financial shield, a shield that works instantly. Ask entrepreneurs about this, because it seems that on the radio, your fellow Member Krzysztof Truskołaski praised this shield, as well as Mr Budka. Thank you very much, Mr President, for such praise. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I think it's the most honest thing you thought it was said outside of the cameras. But the most important thing for me is that these shields, through entrepreneurs, save jobs. They're appreciated. And yes, we're going to try to expand the operation of these shields. Every other shield... You could have done it, there were corrections. For these positive elements, records of other shields, which part of the opposition - unfortunately it was not usually the Civic Platform - also with us... How many times? You're obsessed. ...positively evaluated and voted, thank you, thank you for your cooperation. I'd like her to be as common as possible. There were also questions about the European reconstruction fund. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the European reconstruction fund is another success that pricks you in the eye. [[Applause]] It's a huge success because you tried to talk about European money when they weren't there. There really were no new measures, just a shift from a previous perspective to health care. And we did it, we did what we convinced the European Commission to do at the numerous European Council meetings that took place. Since April I have spoken out loud about an ambitious plan for Europe, a Marshall plan for Europe. Read in a few Western newspapers. Western? And at the end of May, it really materialized. A strong and very strong Visegrad Group, which is the basis of our strength in the European Union, because you can't often be surprised at where our effectiveness comes from... [[Touchdown, applause]] Yes, with very good cooperation with the Visegrad Group within the Tri-marriage, including Romania, including Bulgaria, with other countries of Central Europe, and not just with the mighty of this world. This isn't the policy we're running. So the European reconstruction fund, yes, will be an excellent, great addition by the big D to the multiannual financial framework, to the budget that we will negotiate for the next few months. Just the rule of law and that's it. And you know what, High Izbo, ladies and gentlemen? It will also be a very good budget for Poland, but the most important thing is that... There's still free courts. ...today Poland is already standing, beyond those shields... Because when will the European shield come into force? Do you have any idea? About the fall, maybe even early next year. That's what they say today. What would Polish entrepreneurs, Polish employees look like until the winter of this year, until December, if there were no aid from the Polish state, direct aid from the financial and anti-crisis shields? What would they look like? [[Applause]] Ask yourselves this question and answer it honestly. There was a debt question. Let me put it this way: in the times of the Civic Platform and PSL you inherited a debt of about PLN 515 billion... That's what you advised me to do? ...as well as I remember. When we took over the government, it was 888 billion, but we have to add that to compare apples with apples, 160 billion from OFE, which you promised you wouldn't take away people, and you took away, the Civic Platform took funds from OFE to people. [[Applause]] She didn't. This is by comparing the same amounts, the same comparable values, 515 billion to 1040 billion, i.e. by more than 100%. In eight years, he's grown in debt. In the case of the rule of law and justice, the United Rights debt vis-à-vis GDP decreased from approx. 540000-55 per cent to 46.2% He was in debt. But GDP has increased. Apples have gone out. Polish apples. But I have two more good news. I don't know if you're still interested in them today, but I'm going to say, because I think every patriot will be happy, and that's what I'm counting on when I say that sharing total opposition or dividing Poles into better and worse ones that unfortunately trumps... Better sort of stuff. ...from your many statements, is something that we absolutely reject. Because a huge threat to the long-term economic development of the Republic of Poland was dependence on debt in currencies and foreign debt. Debt vis-à-vis foreign countries decreased during these 4 and 5 years out of 60% total, total public debt up to 39%, [[Applause]] so addiction is significantly less, and debt in currencies has decreased from approximately 35.5%... A debt is a debt, you have to pay. ...to 27% with a small hook, [[Applause]] so our dependence on currency fluctuations has also decreased significantly. It's called a smart economic policy, it's a buffer that protects us from different currency fluctuations. So here we have some good news too. There was a question about animal abuse, records. Ladies and gentlemen, we reject any record. If there are gates, any record of such behaviour, such mistreatment of animals, is absolutely rejected by us, this is unacceptable. You can't act like this. And the horses in Janów? Except there's no money. There was also a question about the programme for Silesia, about the involvement of funds in the programme for Silesia. The programme for Silesia, which was originally planned for PLN 42 billion, has now been developed to PLN 55 billion. Of these, PLN 44.5 billion have been involved in total projects, which is the vast majority, and the already committed budget resources are PLN 24 billion. [[Applause]] So, ladies and gentlemen, there are concrete actions. It is also about such projects - the inhabitants of Podbeskidzia know perfectly well how long they waited in the times of the Civic Platform - such as the tour of Hungary's Górka. This is a project that we have approved and we are implementing, as are many other infrastructure projects. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these substantive questions. I ask you not to create such a space, such a barrier in terms of real cooperation. We want to work with you, with the opposition, on good projects for the next 3.5 years, along with very good President Andrzej Duda. [[Applause]] And such cooperation from this place in this very important day for Polish history, on this very interesting day, very important for our history for two reasons... This is, first of all, the date I was talking about 28 years ago, but also the date of the first partially free elections to the Sejm and the completely free elections to the Senate. These are events 31 years ago. I was boycotting these elections at the time, but after years I can and I want to admit that we had to enter this area of building democracy. Then this space had to be expanded within the Third Republic. And I would like to thank all those who, over the years of the Third Republic, have extended the area of democracy, freedom, solidarity and justice, [[Applause]] above all, to the Law and Justice, but also to all other people of good faith, [[Joy in the Chamber]] all people from all sides of the political scene who have come to such a heritage, heritage of the Solidarity and free Poland will admit. Thank you very much. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] What about the miners in Silesia who are in quarantine? Shame! [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u176	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. We will be voting on this in a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, we will proceed with the quorum. I therefore ask all Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. Marshal, I'd like to correct. I was mentioned by name. Member, all of you... But I was the only one. No, not only that, my fellow Member. You're welcome, okay? It's not just that. Trzaskowski didn't make it. Gdansk can connect remotely. Please press any button. Let me remind you that we are checking the quorum, Mr President. 449 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I therefore find a quorum. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask Members who have made formal submissions as to whether they are up to date. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk - formal proposal out of date. Thank you. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left? Yes. Here's a formal proposal, sir. One minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u177	Yes, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make a formal request on behalf of the Left Club to interrupt the Sejm meeting, to announce a break and to convene the Convention in order to amend the agenda. Today we are before the vote on the vote of confidence and there have been many voices here about the fact that this is part of the electoral campaign, and before us a presidential bill on the solidarity allowance. In our view, it's a continuation of what we're doing today at hours. 12.10 has started, and so the election campaign and the presidential project is being presented. In the meantime, the Left printed 379 with a draft Crisis Witness Act, which we submitted on 23 April. Therefore, we would like to include this draft on the agenda... Of course. ...to discuss, if ever, two of these projects, because I do not see any reason why the President's proposal should be better than the Left project, all the more so because the President submitted this project yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] My project is better than yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u178	Thank you, sir. A request for interruption has been made and I will put this request to the vote. You're welcome. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of announcing a break, please press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 219 - for, 232 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. Is Mr Bogusław Sonik's proposal up to date? Yes. You're welcome, sir. It could be a little longer because it's an anniversary. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u179	Today is the next anniversary of free elections, partly free elections. It's been 31 years. I would like to draw attention to the facts that we often forget. Both the elections themselves and their preparation, as well as the outcome, have resulted in incredible enthusiasm. Not only did the martial law itself, but also the terrible years that followed it plunged society into depression. The sense of hopelessness dominated. The election of June 4 radically changed that. Poles again felt that something depended on them. Today we have forgotten, and it is hard for younger people to imagine how enormous social energy has triggered these elections. It turned out that people were ready to make tremendous efforts to believe in a better future, that new hope and new enthusiasm had awakened. The events that took place some time later, the fall of the Berlin Wall, kept this energy going. And it's hard to overestimate the strength and importance of this impulse, which was June 4th. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, no mistakes were made... Mr President, I am sorry, but these are not statements. Excuse me, sir, it was a formal conclusion. How can you interrupt? This was not a formal conclusion, Mr. President. I'm sorry. Thank you. Is the conclusion... There are no statements... [[Applause]] I'm sorry, sir, but really, sir, not here. But there are no statements. Hands out of your pockets!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u180	But they're gonna... There you go, is Mr Grzegorz Braun continuing his formal application? There you go. I'm sorry, sir, but it really wasn't a formal proposal. We're at that point.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u181	God bless you! In a few hours it will be 100 years since the signing of the separate land of the Holy Crown of Stefan, in the afternoon, at the palace of Trianon in Versailles on 4 June 1920. I've submitted a draft resolution on this matter earlier, Your Marshal. I'm making sure he's here. Mr President, I apologise, 15 signatures are required for the resolution. You signed off on your own. [[Joy in the Chamber]] The wheel didn't even sign. Mrs. Marshal! Since I will not read this draft resolution to you, and I will not justify it more widely, so let us keep quiet for a moment about the fact that 100 years ago there was a partition of the state (the bell) which had common monarchs with us... Thank you very much, sir. ...and to whom we owe much, especially in the hot days of August 1920. A moment of silence.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u182	Thank you, sir. The committee responsible has delivered an opinion on the motion for a vote... Excuse me. No, it's a votive! The committee responsible presented its opinion on the request to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister for Health, Łukasz Szumowski. The opinion is in print no 403. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of the matter. The President of the Republic of Poland submitted a draft act on the solidarity allowance granted to counteract the negative effects of COVID-19, print No 406. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I propose that the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in discussions on the added agenda items. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! Objection. Okay, then we'll vote against it. Your marshal, there should be a longer speech at the vote. I'm offering you 10 minutes. This is your proposal, sir. We proceed with the vote of objection. Listen carefully to what I'm saying, so that there's no later that I've read something else and that you've voted on something else. The Sejm has proposed five-minute statements, and we are voting accordingly. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 237 - for, 219 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We return to the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Examination of the request of the Prime Minister to express the vote of confidence of the Council of Ministers by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Let's move on to the vote. Let me remind you that according to the article. 160 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland gives a vote of confidence to the Council of Ministers by a majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request of the Prime Minister of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to express a vote of confidence to the Council of Ministers will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 235 - for, 219 - against, 2 stopped. [[Long-term applause]] Bravo! I state that the Sejm has expressed a vote of confidence to the Council of Ministers. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Some Members chant: Matthew! Matthew! Matthew! Members of Barbara Bartus and Anna April present flowers to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Thank you very much. I say again that the Sejm has expressed a vote of confidence to the Council of Ministers. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u183	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Committee on Infrastructure will meet today at 3 p.m. 4:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u184	Thank you very much. We proceed to the examination of item 23. of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the solidarity allowance granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19 (print No 406). I would like to ask the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland of Mr.Paweł Mucha. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u185	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House, presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, a draft act on the solidarity allowance granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. Since the start of the pandemic, the President has been actively involved in the fight against it, in particular with the economic, economic and social disadvantages. This initiative complements the solutions adopted under the so-called initiative. An anti-crisis shield. The project was announced by the President at the beginning of May. It is also part of the programme agreement concluded on 5 May 2020 by the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda with the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity). The project has two main objectives. Firstly, the project provides support for people who have lost their jobs due to the economic situation caused by the crisis caused by the COVID-19 epidemic. Secondly, the draft law permanently raises unemployment benefits. High Izbo! The proposed regulation sets out the conditions for the acquisition, the amount, the method of granting and the rules for the payment and financing of the solidarity allowance. The solidarity allowance will be granted for a maximum of 3 months between 1 June and 31 August 2020 and will amount to PLN 1400 per month. The allowance will be granted to persons who were employed under an employment contract and with whom the employment contract was either terminated after 31 March 2020 or terminated within the period for which it was concluded. A condition for obtaining the right to a solidarity allowance is to have a period of social security coverage for at least 90 days in 2020. The allowance will be granted to persons residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland if they are Polish nationals, nationals of the Member States of the European Union and Member States of the European Free Trade Agreement - parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area or the Swiss Confederation having the right of residence or the right of permanent residence or foreigners legally residing in the territory of Poland. The allowance shall not be granted to persons covered by social insurance or health insurance obligations, including those entitled to a pension for farmers. The draft shall determine the situation where the person is simultaneously entitled to the solidarity allowance and unemployment benefit. During the period of collection of the solidarity allowance, unemployment benefits and scholarships will not be paid to eligible persons, but if unemployment benefits or grants referred to in the above mentioned subparagraph are paid to the unemployed person. the act, then the solidarity allowance will be paid in the amount of the difference between the solidarity allowance paid and the allowance or scholarship paid by the labour office. The period of collection of the solidarity allowance will not shorten the period of the allowance or scholarship. The period of collection of the solidarity allowance will, however, be included in the period of work required to acquire or retain the rights of workers, with the exception of the period of employment on which the right to leave depends, and the traineeship laid down in the separate provisions required for the exercise of certain professions. The project, just as the laws of the so-called. The anti-crisis shield also lays down the basis for the Council of Ministers to define by regulation a longer period than three months of solidarity provision, taking into account the situation on the labour market and the possibility of finding new employment by people who have lost their jobs due to the spread of COVID-19. It is proposed, in particular, for the speed of proceedings, that applications for the solidarity allowance be submitted in the form of an electronic document through a profile established in the Social Insurance Institution. Information on the award of the solidarity allowance will be made available on the information profile of the person authorised to be established in the IT system of the ZUS. The grant of the solidarity allowance shall be refused by means of a decision from which the right to appeal to the competent court shall be granted within the time limit and under the rules laid down in the Code of Civil Procedure. For the purpose of collecting the solidarity allowance, the entitled person will be subject to pension and health insurance and the amount of the solidarity allowance will be paid on the basis of the contribution. The contributions to pension, pension and health insurance will be financed entirely by the State budget through the Social Insurance Institution. The solidarity allowance will not be subject to personal income tax and to deductions and enforcement. This means that the entitled person will receive the total amount of PLN 1400. [[♪ The bell ♪]] High Seym! As I pointed out at the beginning, the project also envisages an increase in unemployment benefit from 1 September 2020. The President proposes that during the first 90 days the allowance should be PLN 1200 and then PLN 942,30. In addition, the project assumes that up to 365 working days are eligible for unemployment benefit for a reduced period of employment and with a reduced salary below the minimum wage for work for those persons to whom under Article is applicable. 15g of the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them reduced working time resulting in a reduction in wages below the minimum wage for work. It is proposed that the Act will enter into force on the day following the date of its publication, with the exception of the provisions concerning the increase in unemployment benefit which will enter into force from 1 September 2020. The envisaged date of entry into force of the Act is without prejudice to the principles of a democratic rule of law and is justified by a particularly important social interest. High Izbo! The estimated number of persons entitled to unemployment benefit who fulfil the eligibility criteria for the solidarity allowance is around 300,000. persons. The total estimated number of people who acquire the right to the solidarity allowance amounts to about 0.5 million people, of which less than 200,000. they are persons without the right to unemployment benefits. You could say 200,000. persons who today are deprived of any benefits, under this law will receive a solidarity allowance of PLN 1400. On the other hand, over 300,000. persons with a fixed right to unemployment benefit will receive almost 200% of the benefits the previous benefit, because it is 1400 PLN compared to the current amount of the benefit. Besides, we have, as I said, an increase in the benefit for everyone expected from September 1st. I would like to thank the social side very much - NSZZ - Solidarity for the work on this law, I would like to thank you very much for your cooperation with the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, for the work on this law by Minister Marlenie Maląg, the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, as well as experts from the ZUS who supported us in this work. I am convinced that this is a very important law, a very important law, which improves the situation of all those who today, as a result of COVID-19, have an absolute feeling of uncertainty whether they do not have the opportunity to satisfy their basic life needs, because they have been deprived of any income. It is clear to me that the solutions proposed by your President are necessary and socially expected. Therefore, I kindly ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda and to process it as soon as possible so that the solidarity allowance can be paid immediately to people who have lost their jobs due to the COVID-19 pandemic and are certainly looking forward to this assistance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u186	Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear five minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. We will first hear the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. Mr Sylvester Tulaev.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u187	Thank you very much. 4 June 1989 Poles voted jointly and severally for free Poland. Solidarity is always a valid value. I've filed a bill on the solidarity allowance to counteract the negative effects of COVID-19. He will serve those who need help now. Actions, not words. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! These are the words of the President who tweeted the right tweet this morning, just showing his entire presidency. This is the president of President Andrzej Duda - the credible president, the president who keeps his promises... Frankowicz, franchise. ...the president who effectively fulfilled all his promises that were made in 2015, even before he took over the presidency... Frankowicz. ...but in the last five years in a special way. I would like to stress that on 1 May President Andrzej Duda announced, he proposed an additional formula of support for anyone who lost their jobs as a result of the crisis caused by the COVID-19 virus. Actions, not words. Another thing that the president proves to be the president who believes he's the president who keeps his word. Also on 5 May, an appropriate declaration was signed together with the trade union.Solidarity. The programme agreement also states that an additional formula for support that the solidarity allowance will be introduced. Actions, not words. President Duda proves he's a credible president. Also on 1 May, President Andrzej Duda proposed and stressed the need to increase the amount of unemployment benefit, justifying this need for changes in this area, because he knew precisely that there would be an increase in the number of people losing their jobs as a result of COVID-19. Actions, not words. Once again, the president has shown that he is effectively fulfilling his electoral promises. Yes. I would like to point out that this project, very carefully presented by the Minister, also includes a number of such very important issues. E.g. Article 2 6, where it is said that the payment of the supplement will take place within the deadline not longer than 7 days. This shows that we want to act quickly, that we want to help quickly, that we want to support people who need help quickly. Importantly, the solidarity allowance will not be subject to personal income tax, deduction and enforcement. It's very important. It's a very important project. Today, I call on the entire High House to support the President's proposal so that in this spirit of solidarity we can support the solutions that you are proposing to the President. The estimated number of people who will acquire the right to the solidarity allowance is almost 0.5 million people, 0.5 million people who need our support as a result of what has happened in the context of the COVID-19 epidemic. Today, too, there is a question on this particular day about solidarity, about solidarity 2020 how we can understand it. This is undoubtedly support for those in need of help and social empathy. These are investments that will ensure the future for the next generation. These are roads that will make it easier to move. This is the mission that President Andrzej Duda is carrying out. Actions, not words. I appeal for this and make a request on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to enter the second reading without delay without referring the presidential bill on the solidarity allowance granted in order to counter the negative effects of the COVID-19 to the committee. Once again, I would like to express a very positive opinion on this project. We fully support this bill and request that this proposal be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u188	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition will address Mr Boris Budek. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u189	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! I am pleased that President Andrzej Duda has once again reached out to the good solutions that the Civic Coalition proposed several weeks ago. [[Applause]] I am glad that President Andrzej Duda is finally trying to understand what true solidarity is, because over the last five years, Andrzej Duda's word for solidarity has been distorted. President Andrzej Duda introduced himself as a man who comes to listen to the voice of the sovereign, and the only voice he listened to was the voice of the President of Nowogrodzka. How about a draft bill? Today, when he panics in the face of polls, in the face of Poles saying clearly: we are sick of it, he presents a bill which, as in the lens, shows the great failure of Prime Minister Morawiecki's government. I don't think you've read this project. It was Prime Minister Morawiecki who promised from this speaker that no workplace would be lost. Well, Prime Minister? President Andrzej Duda must save what you've ruined. Yes, solidarity is needed, but new solidarity is needed in new challenges. It's not supposed to be just something for the election campaign. You took the President and the Government of Law and Justice to the idea of the Civic Coalition: 500+ for every child. You took advantage before the European elections of the thirteenth pension, of course by doing it your way and perverting the idea. There's no money, and there won't be. Now you're using the good idea of the Civic Coalition, but you're doing it too late again, and unfortunately you're doing it the wrong way. The sole purpose of this law is the election objective. When we talk about solidarity, we should ask the President: Are you in solidarity with Mr Szumowski and his family? Where was your voice when the media informed about how the Szumowski family was getting rich on the estate of the State Treasury? [[Applause]] Where were you, Mr. President, in solidarity with Mr. Banas, when the charges, serious charges, didn't cause the Prime Minister to introduce plan B? Mr. Banas is still in his position. Where have you been, Mr. President, where was this solidarity when this government was destroying further elements of public life? Where were you, Mr. President, when there was a need for solidarity with the guardians of the disabled? Where were you, Mr. President, when solidarity was needed with teachers, with teachers, with doctors, with all those who were insulted and destroyed by this government? And finally where were you, Mr President, when solidarity with Polish patients was needed? Mr. President! You're unbelievable. You promised that Jacek Kurski would disappear from Polish television. You promised PLN 2 billion for Polish patients. And what did it turn out to be? That's where you broke your word. Kurski has returned to TVP because you know perfectly well that without Kurski you have no chance in this election campaign. But I'm telling you from this place that you've already lost this election with Kurski or without Kurski. [[Applause]] And it's a shame, Mr. President, you're not with us today. It is a pity, Mr President, that after these five years of independence presidency, you did not come to the High House to look us in the eye and say, "I'm sorry." You should apologize for your party colleagues who made Byzantium from the Polish state, who in a disgraceful way are earning off the harm of others who, even in times of pandemics, were able to get rich at the expense of Polish taxpayers. You, Mr. President, are the face of this bad change. You, Mr. President, are the company of the worst in this government. Today this government, with the hands of Prime Minister Moravian, is desperately trying to save your campaign, but it is impossible to save. For the last time today, you are taking advantage of the legislative initiative to try to catch additional votes, but Poles will not fall for it. We've had enough. We've had enough of a weak presidency. We want a strong president for a common Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And that is why, Mr President, it would be worth coming to this House again and apologizing for your five years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u190	Thank you very much. On behalf of the parliamentary club, Mr Adrian Zandberg will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u191	High Izbo! We've been listening to the Prime Minister here, who's just putting off his cell phone, who's been talking about not going back to the Civic Platform government, to a time when no one cared about people who lost their jobs when no one cared about those who were pushed into trash so they wouldn't go back to the time when they paid 3.50 an hour. And, Prime Minister, I agree with you, it's not the right thing to go back to. These are mistakes that must not be repeated. As I understand it, this bill was supposed to prove that you were different. And there's nothing to hide, you've aroused a lot of expectations. I spoke here some time ago in the hallway with one of the members of the PiS who threatened to show me that you would show us a pro-social bill that we would fall in our slippers together, as he said. It was supposed to be some kind of bomb. It was supposed to be a big game changer. Well? And the bill is on the table. Let's take a look at the numbers. What's the unemployment benefit, the basic one, the one who gets the unemployed after three months? Because you'll agree that this benefit was scandalously low for Platforms, because it was barely 36% of the minimum wage, and that money was impossible to live for, right? So how much now, Prime Minister, will he get unemployed from this supposedly pro-social government? Well, I've done the math. After these 3 months he gets no less, no more than 36% minimum wage. Exactly the same as under liberal rule. So it was supposed to be a bomb, and it came out a bit of a capisco, and it just came out of it a little bit, a little behind on the benefit. And as I look at that empty chair up there that the president left, I think maybe he didn't leave it by accident. That money wasn't enough for Tusk, your boss back then, and that money is not enough right now. That's pushing people into poverty. Too little benefit for people who lose their jobs, that's to convict people that they won't have to pay the rent for, that they won't have anything to buy. And someone who's lost his job needs real help getting back on their feet, not sticking him in debt with a loan shark. This will end with setting the level of unemployment benefit at too low levels. This could have been done and had to be done differently. And we showed you how to do it. A few weeks ago, we submitted a draft crisis witnessing bill to your marshal. There you have it very simply and clearly prepared - a normal European aid scheme for the unemployed, with a simple principle that it is half the last salary, as it is. works in many Western European countries. Honestly, I thought you were holding something really big, some kind of hit, that's why you're keeping our bill in the freezer because you're gonna bring us something really better here. And now we know what it's like, and we have to say It's an opening: there's no madness. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm looking at this bill and I can only repeat that if you can't write your own bill, then take our project and rewrite it. And when you rewrite it, don't rewrite it in pieces, just take it in full, because when you rewrite it in pieces, you rewrite it with holes, because in this solidarity clause of yours, there's a whole group of people who don't get anything. Who doesn't get that solidarity supplement of yours? People who worked trash cans, because of course they don't have a job relationship. People who were looking for a new job just after the outbreak. I think that very many inhabitants of Szydłowiec, very many inhabitants of Braniewo, those places where there is still a high level of structural unemployment, will warmly thank you when they realize that this support is, yes, but not for them. Finally, they will not get money from people who are on forced contracts for so-called. the agreement of the parties that now, in the reality of the crisis, look like the employer says: either the agreement, or you get a disciplinary. So these people won't get it, because the Prime Minister and the President decided to play cents, although it's really no time to say that this unemployed man deserves help, he doesn't deserve it, and it's not right for people to treat him like that right now. There's a striking contrast, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at expenses. This is a very interesting part of the justification of this law, because as you have repeatedly praised, Prime Minister, you have very quickly allocated tens of billions of zlotys to help your friends in the financial sector and for the big business, and here unemployment benefits - after 3 months, urged by the Left, with the hanging draft of the law, eventually scraped for this purpose, as you write, 490 million zlotys. It's not even 1%. The shield you were talking about. That's 490 million. The Minister is surprised to see the justification that came out, I understand, from her ministry, before you signed it. That's what you spend on benefits. Well, that's really incomparable money with the money you've invested in helping business. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Coalition Left Club will, of course, support any increase in benefits for people who are losing their jobs today, but I want to be clear: this law does not solve these problems. If unemployment continues to grow as the forecasts say, then in the autumn, Minister Kowalczyk, you will see for yourself. Thank you, sir. This prosthesis is simply not enough, and however difficult it would be for your sense of dignity... Mr President, time is up. ...you will have to return to the bill presented by the Left in the autumn. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u192	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will be heard by Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u193	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! Minister! Presenting on behalf of the President a draft law on the so-called "law'. The solidarity allowance, you said, would benefit those who have lost their jobs as a result of the outbreak of Coronavirus, COVID-19. Minister! Prime Minister! Membership! To put it precisely, more precisely, they lost their jobs as a result of a decision taken by the government in two or even three, because there was still an amendment, orders issued by the Minister of Health, with the approval of the entire government, announced together with the Prime Minister, on 13 and 20 March, about limiting or even prohibiting the conduct of specific economic activities. I am not saying from this point on that these decisions were unfounded, but this was a direct reason why these people lost their jobs, their jobs, their jobs so far, because their employers, their companies had no operational capacity or were limited to the minimum by the government's decision. Why do I invoke this circumstance? Because the supplement you're announcing here with this kind of pay is 2/3 of the minimum wage. Do you really treat Poles so low that you think that when they lost their jobs, they didn't even earn minimum wages? It means that great mistrust and great disrespect for employers and employees trumps your speeches, your politics and your projects. These people were making money, I guarantee you, at least minimum wage, and probably more. So the offer of solidarity added with such a hump is nothing more than charity and charity, which is also outrageous because of this, how long it took to prepare quite a simple bill for Mr President, I understand, in cooperation with the government. During this time, four versions of the anti-crisis shield were prepared. The government in these shields took care of the release of the criminal liability of government officials buying masks or padlocks from friends, possibly cock companies, but always at a higher price. The government has been able to ensure or restrict the powers of the State Election Commission in the organisation of fair, transparent presidential elections, but for almost three months the unemployed, the new unemployed, who lost their jobs as a result of government decisions, somehow did not remember. And yet, on May 1, 5 weeks ago, President Duda also announced this supplement on his so-called. the programming convention. So? He didn't have a project, promising this solution five weeks ago? What happened to this project only now, at the beginning of June, even though it was announced with such a bang on May 1st? We know what happened. The Presidential elections have been postponed. So from this point on, I also accuse President Andrzej Duda of playing with fear, stress and anxiety of people who lost their jobs in mid-March or at the latest on 1 April and who faced the risk of not being able to pay their loans or even paying rent, simply because it was more useful for him to announce this project not when these people needed it, when everyone was aware, also President Andrzej Duda, that they needed it. Only because today we have the last day before the elections of the Sejm and today it will be Andrzej Duda's most profitable, or at least that's how Andrzej Duda believes. But our club, despite all its reservations, will be in favour of further work on this project, because there are several reasonable solutions, including a solution that says that the solidarity allowance will be paid without tax deduction. This is the way we have been proposing for a long time. Tax-free pension, Prime Minister, tax-free pension, Minister of the President's Office. Go ahead, since you are already taking the first step in order to really release the citizens in need, Polish citizens in need, including pensioners, then go on, take our project (The Bell), which again during this term was submitted to the Marshal's staff and waits for your positive decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u194	Thank you very much. Mr Jakub Kulesz will speak on behalf of the Confederacy Circle. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u195	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Sir... There isn't? It's a pity, because I have a quote for the president: American democracy will survive until Congress discovers that it is possible to bribe society for public money. That quote from Alexis de Tocqueville you treated, Mr. President, along with the party backroom, as an instruction. A few days before the 2018 local elections, the expedition+ was paid, a few days before the European Parliamentary elections in 2019 a 13th pension was paid, a few days before the parliamentary elections - masterpieces, accumulation, 1500 PLN overdue for 3 months 500+ for the first child. And now by April 30th, 10 days before the planned presidential election, another 13th pension was due, but there are new elections, something needs to be figured out. I've been wondering what's gonna happen next. You, Mr President, know very well that the government has no money of its own, only money looted with other taxes, but you invented a solidarity supplement just so that, just as at the Garwolin market a few days ago, you could lie that you are the one who gives the thirteenth pension, 500+, expedition, supplement, and these laws on garbage charges, these 34 tax increases are not you - of course you have signed these laws - only this opposition. Solidarity allowance. Well, what's the bonus for? This is an addition to the further liquidation of the jobs that your ski buddy - Minister Szumowski gave us - did not wear masks. This supplement will actually only deepen the unemployment problem. Mr President, this proposal is, in my opinion, economic dylancies. You don't understand how the labour market works. You don't understand how the economy works and where public money comes from. If you want to make it worthwhile for employers to work and work in a weakened economy of yours, then you must fulfill your promise from five years ago and raise the tax-free amount, for example. As the Confederation proposes, up to 30,000. PLN per year or preferably up to 12 times the minimum salary. This solidarity supplement, on the other hand, encourages further redundancies and the transition to black work. For example, many entities in the market operate in capital-related groups and personal groups, and in such a group there is no problem of firing an employee in one company and employing the employee in the other and vice versa. Moreover, it is the benefit of 1400 PLN for 3 months. It concerns not only those made redundant, but those who simply expired after 31 March. Many people have seasonal work independent of COVID-19 and such holidays, for example. At college, they're fine. If in some family business the employer was wondering, he didn't want to fire the employee, this supplement would encourage him to do so. I would like you to give yourself another quote, this time Milton Friedman: If you pay people for not working, and you make them pay their taxes while they work, don't be surprised that you have unemployment. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u196	Thank you very much. And Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u197	If we pay for photovoltaics or windmills, why are we doing it? Take this example. I'm guessing we're doing this to make sure we expect more windmills and more solar panels. Whether or not it's the right decision or not, but that is probably the intention of such actions. So why are we adding unemployment now? I take it we want more unemployment, right? In a situation where we have fewer workers and more unemployed people, we are increasing unemployment benefits, which is an increasingly shrinking working group - and what is more, we expect that it will shrink even further - we are asking that we maintain an increasing number of non-workers. In addition, we raise these benefits in a situation where we can especially afford them, when many people have been reduced their salary, etc. In this situation, it will be all the more difficult to find a job, because whoever finds a job will jump one of those who will have to pay for the others. So you spend billions of dollars under various employment aid schemes, and now you're doing exactly the opposite. The effects of these actions will bear each other. In addition, there is no mechanism here, contrary to these announcements, that this is to help victims, indirect victims of the epidemic crisis. On the contrary, it is clearly written that those who end the contract will also be entitled to these benefits. And most of all, for God's sake, stop spreading the word "solidarity." Solidarity is when someone voluntarily solidaritys, and when we put a gun to someone's head and say, now you, bourgeois, [[♪ The bell ♪]] Solidarize me immediately with the other one, the poor one - this is not solidarity, this is robbery and assault. In addition, we also take on the costs of reducing employment, unemployment abroad... Thank you very much, sir. ...because we're gonna keep aliens here. The Confederation will therefore table an amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u198	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. 23 parliamentarians signed up for the questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time - one minute. Mr Michał Krawczyk, the Civic Coalition, will ask the first question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u199	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! Five years, Mr. President, you had five years to fulfill your election promises. Did you do it? No. Where's the help for the franchise? There isn't. There isn't. Where's the $100,000? Low-cost apartments? There isn't. There isn't. Where's the tax-free pension? There isn't. Where are the orders for PZL Świdnik, which you promised when you were in Lublin? There isn't. And now, three weeks before the election, you're making a bill that we're currently working on. You submit it the day the Marshal of the Sejm announces and manages the presidential election. You're hoping to save your presidency at the last minute. Instead of proposing a bill that would solve the problems of people being fired in the long term, you propose 1400 PLN, but only until your term of office is completed. What about those who lose their jobs on September 1st, September 15th (The Bell), October or November? Thank you very much. You're not offering them anything. Don't count on you to bribe... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u200	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition, will ask another question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u201	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us consider whether the 1400 zlotys that get fired will not turn against them because employers may no longer have the motivation to fight for job preservation. Let's see if such high benefits paradoxically do not perpetuate unemployment. On the other hand, this 1400 PLN is only for three months, oddly enough until the end of the current President's term of office. And then what happens? Maybe the state should create new jobs in addition to benefits? Because after the coronavirus nothing will be the same and you will have to find yourself in this new world somehow. Let's think about it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u202	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Marshal! It's not an allowance, it's not solidarity. This is not an allowance because it is instead of unemployment benefits. Of course, we also advocated that, in the face of the pandemic, some unemployment benefits should be increased, because it is dramatically low. But let's notice one thing. The person who gets that benefit you call an allowance won't get a basic allowance. Therefore, the name "appendice' is merely a fraud. Second, solidarity. The only solidarity I see here is solidarity with President Andrzej Duda, in the sense that I understand that the government said this: I cannot increase the amount of free money you promised - it is difficult. We can't trade loans for the franchise - we can't. Most of your promises cannot be fulfilled. You know what? So we're gonna make a solidarity allowance for three months, we're gonna call unemployment benefit a solidarity allowance, and we're gonna say it's your initiative. And that's exactly what election fraud is. Yeah, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have to help the unemployed... Thank you very much. ...but it's a fraud. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u204	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Gabriel Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u205	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that such the greatest hypocrisy and deception of this law is to call replacing an allowance or unemployment benefit some kind of solidarity with those who have difficulties. Mr. President, would you consider solidarity with the citizens in any other way? Since the beginning of your presidency, there has been an enormous increase in spending on your firm. At the moment, the height of your service and your court is equal to that of the British court. Only that, as the media compares it, a statistical British man spends twice as much on his court as a Pole. Not to mention the Spanish court costs five times less than your court. Maybe to show solidarity (the bell) in such a way as to give up the golden feathers... Thank you very much, Member. ...for 158,000. And $180,000. - with scarves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u206	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u207	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Your bill shouldn't be called the Solidarity Act, it should be called the Election Act. Where have you been for the last five years? Where are the results of your promises? Where is the tax-free amount of 8,000. Evil? There isn't. Where's the help for the franchise? There isn't. There it is. Where are the apartments, the 100,000? the apartments for the young Poles you promised? There isn't. There isn't. I remember in Szczecin, next to the shipyard you said that ships would be built and Poland would be a world power. Go to the yard and see how the keel rusts. There are no results of your actions. What's the matter? The proposal of the watermelon+ programme. Mr. President! Young Poles today have different expectations and other problems. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You may think the eye is the most important thing, but it's more important to live and support young people in lending them. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u208	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u209	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mr. President isn't here, but you can hand it over. The word "solidarity," changed by many cases today, is needed by the President, I understand, for the purpose of the election campaign. I want to ask you one thing. In 2018, Mr President signed a bill that called for a solidarity fund to support people with disabilities, but already in 2019 his hand did not shake when he signed the new law, the Solidarity Fund law, where you threw people with disabilities even under this law, as Law and Justice threw away, as your Marshal of the Sejm threw people with disabilities out of the Sejm. Why is the Member lying? I ask: When will the word "solidarity" be used this way? When's the election campaign? No, you really need to help the weakest, and the weakest are a lot more than this group, [[♪ The bell ♪]] The money you're aiming for. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u210	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Monika Wielichowska, the Civic Coalition. There isn't. There isn't. So, Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u211	High Izbo! It takes a lot of luck to qualify for unemployment benefits today. He's downloading less than 20% at the moment. people who are unemployed. But these ridiculous criteria that need to be met in order to get this benefit, that's nothing. compared to the criteria to be met in order to obtain the solidarity allowance. This allowance will only be granted to persons employed for the employment contract, only to persons employed for the employment contract for a minimum of 90 days in 2020 and only to persons who lost their job after 31 March 2020. This is not a solidarity supplement, it is a mechanism of segregation of workers in the middle of the worst crisis for years. If this is the card of Andrzej Duda's presidency, that's not a good sign of this president. That is why I have a question for Minister Fly because there is no President: Why do you divide employees into better and worse? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u212	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Until now, although thousands of people have already lost their jobs as a result of the epidemic, the authorities have consistently rejected the proposal to help the unemployed. Even the word "unemployed" did not appear in subsequent anti-crisis shields. Is everything just so that President Andrzej Duda can present his proposal during the presidential campaign? First of all, it's done with a huge delay. Secondly, from the great promises of the president we have been able to increase the basic allowance by PLN 200. Of course, it's better than nothing, but it's still not enough unless we're waiting for the campaign to develop and for more presidential additions. If so, the Sejm has long been waiting for a ready-made project of the Left, which assumes what the President is saying: a real increase in the permanent allowance and a special benefit for those who today, through the epidemic, do not even have a chance to look for a job. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u214	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It was only the Prime Minister who spoke about how well the government dealt with the epidemic, and here such a surprise, the President is submitting a bill on the solidarity allowance granted to counter the negative effects of the COVID-19, which is being prosecuted from day to day. The Left project has been in place for a few weeks, and unfortunately there is no possibility or such happiness. I understand, then, that the government did not manage and hence such an outcast. Just a question: A helping hand for the citizens, for the government or for Duda's candidate? Because the allowance itself is to be granted for a maximum of 3 months and only for the period from 1 June to the end of August. Would you mind explaining why these restrictions? Many Poles and many Poles have already lost their jobs, have just lost their jobs or have been given notice or are about to receive them. Limiting June-August will result in a large number of unemployed people not benefiting from this supplement, while you will benefit from the President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u216	Thank you, Member. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u217	Dear Marshal! Mr. President! High Izbo! This bill is an inept attempt to imitate the Left's proposal. Mr. President, you're ridiculing yourself with this bill again. It's like instead of the apple that the Left offered you, you give people an oatmeal. I regret that you are not here with us because I wanted to tell you to your face that you have been the worst president in the last 30 years. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Woman, what are you saying? This is the word that best describes five years of your presidency. Words have to be dealt with a little bit. Mrs... For the last five years, you have given no added value to the Poles and Poles. You signed everything they gave you. You couldn't make your own decisions. You couldn't even afford your own opinion, and you were just repeating the PiS messages of the day. It's a waste of our time. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, sir. (Applause) Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u218	Thank you very much, Madam President. Another question, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The president bought himself an election campaign in the Sejm today at the taxpayers' expense. But, as I understand it, the president has that right, and he can always, even just before the election, exercise that right. However, I am a little surprised that, as stated in the explanatory memorandum, the solidarity allowance will be due for a period no longer than 1 June to 31 August of this year. I'll admit, ironically, Mr. President is going to buy himself votes on the eve of the election at a very cheap cost. After all, it is known that the coronavirus will not disappear with the magic wand on August 31st, and the workplaces will not rise until then. In my opinion, and I think that in the opinion of many Poles, this is very populist, electoral manipulation of Poles. Mr. President! I have a question: Is this the end of your assistance to the victims of COVID-19 and have you forgotten that another wave of disease is expected in the fall? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u221	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister asked today the question of whose Poland will be Poland. And I would like to ask the question of how Poland will be and with whom she will be solidarity. Will she be in solidarity with the weakest, with those who need a helping hand, or will she be in solidarity with the Szumowski family, as has been the case for 4 years? Since 16 December 2015, companies associated with the Szumowski family have received funding for a total amount of over PLN 200 million. Only on 5 March 2020, this year, another contract was signed at PLN 22 280 056. Ladies and gentlemen! The next thing you know, it's a matter of purchasing the Ministry of Health. Millions were spent on the purchase of masks (the bell) and plucks, which were at your fingertips, also at the medical warehouse in Rzeszów. Thank you very much, sir. This option was not used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u222	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u223	Miss Marshal Honourable! High Law of Izbo! Controversy has taken place in our circle in connection with this project, because on the one hand, if something has solidarity in the title, then someone who would, for example. Asked for this project to be thrown into the basket at first reading, he would be accused of being insensitive to poverty and human harm. On the other hand, it is such a clearly corrupt project, it is such a clear rattlesnake, very well scored by my esteemed colleagues, my previous speakers. And torn between these two wings, we decided that we would not ask for this project to be rejected so that we might continue to bully it in the next readings. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Chambling, chambling, ladies and gentlemen... Thank you very much, sir. ...gathering visitors.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, the Confederation, is connected remotely. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u225	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Mr. President! This is another project of good change that you want to have Poles. There is no doubt that President Duda will promise, he will sack and claim that he gave the Poles money, which, as we know, is not true. I would even be able to agree with the very validity of this project, because it is aimed at people who have often been wronged regardless of their guilt... [[Disruption of reception]] I understand that perfectly. Clearly, there's a rumble here. Mr. Duda is using the state budget for his election campaign, and that's the problem. On the other hand, I would also like to refer more specifically to one thing. Minister, in your submitted presidential proposal, you are presenting optimistic assumptions about the number of unemployed, about how many of them will be. But why do you include in this project (the bell) the possibility of giving... [[Disruption of reception]] This grant to foreigners? Do we want many unemployed foreigners in Poland after the lockdown? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u227	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! At the beginning of May, during the electoral convention, President Andrzej Duda announced help for those losing their jobs through the pandemic. He's been working on this bill for over a month. But then he said, I quote: unemployment benefit must be raised to 1,300 PLN and be intended for all those who have lost their job because of the coritotus. But there must be an additional formula of support, something I call a solidarity supplement. This supplement is PLN 1200 for every unemployed person who lost his job as a result of a crisis caused by the coronavirus. Minister! So what do you say? So where's... 1300 zł and 1200 zł is 2500 zł for 3 months. Now I understand why you, Minister, and the Member who referred to it, said: not words, but deeds. The words (the bell) spoke of 2500 PLN... Thank you very much. ...and everyone in Poland got used to the amount of 2500 PLN. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. There isn't? Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition. You're welcome. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u229	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue is of great social importance, because we are talking about the effects of the epidemic on the labour market, but these effects will actually occur in the coming months, because if for example. someone is employed for a contract of employment, it has a period of three months notice, so those people on the labour market will only begin to appear at the end of June or at the beginning of July. Therefore, we will only be able to assess, within these three months, what the real consequences of unemployment are, and this fund, which is called solidarity, however important, is only planned for three months. I wanted to ask the Minister if there is a possibility of extending the payment from this fund beyond this three-month period, because then there is an announcement. increase in the amount of the benefit. And of course, just as many others (the bell) have read it in such a way that it will be a parallel benefit: on the one hand unemployment benefits and on the other hand the announcement of an additional benefit for COVID-19 made redundant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u230	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, PSL - Kukiz15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u231	Dear Marshal! Minister! I wish we had the president with us today. He was. If he's reporting a project, I think he should defend it, and he can defend it like a tiger, but somehow, I don't think Mr. President's courage is enough. Ladies and gentlemen! But now that I'm serious. Minister, better late than never, only where you were, Mr. President, when... I'm sure you knew these layoffs were gonna start. I think this is primarily a late initiative. Here again, as my clubmate, I will appeal, because three months is probably too short, and I think only the president knows that the crisis in Poland will end... And I wish it was, but I don't know if it is. Prime Minister, I'm afraid you'll expose the holes in your shield. I hope that's not the case. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much, sir. As far as the financial implications for the budget are concerned, Minister, I think I'd like to say... Okay, well, I'm not gonna be in the end...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u232	Thank you. Mr Marek Rutka, Lewis Club. You're welcome. I can't see. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u233	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to start with an appeal, because we know that there is an election campaign going on and everyone here, in this room, and on the right, and on the left, we have the conviction that this bill is part of this campaign. I have an appeal to the Minister, whom I have known for so many years, to seriously discuss this project and to really lean on the Left project, that is, on this document, the draft act on crisis witnessing, because there may be room to discuss a group of people to whom this witness is to be concerned, to discuss the date of payment of this benefit, to discuss the things and problems that are here, because in addition to the campaign, the key is to help people. And I have one specific question, because in art. 11 of this project, which the President is presenting, is the cost issue: Do you have these costs calculated? The ZUS there receives the right to a non-transferable (Bingle), in short, to buy services, so I would like to know what the amounts will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u234	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u235	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that not everyone has read this law, because the second part of this law is really raising unemployment benefits to 1,200 PLN - and this is permanent, you could say, solidarity supplement, a little less, about 200 PLN. This record is, so don't worry about what's gonna happen in four or five or six months. Really, it's written in this bill, please read it. That's one thing. The second point is that indeed unemployment in Poland is growing very slowly. It is the huge credit of a very effective financial shield, various types of actions: ZUS, loans from the Labour Fund - 5 thousand, the shield implemented by PFR. But there are cases of layoffs, and it is these cases of layoffs, of losing your job that you notice the president - and great glory, and great thanks for that. However, I have such a question for the Minister of Maląg and the applicants, Minister of Fly. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this act, the time-cezure is the release after 31 March, but because the first signs of dismissal appeared after 15 March, because it was then the first restrictions, would it not be possible to shift this time not after 31 March, but after 15 March? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u236	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, Ms Marlena Maląg, will answer the questions raised first. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u237	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The last 5 years have been a good time for Poland and this good time for Poland and for Polish families started not anyone else, only Mr Andrzej Duda. [[Applause]] Oh! The actions introduced by the President, the start of Poland+, the benefit of the family of 500+, the good start, the 13th pension, the reduction of the retirement age, the valorization of pension benefits at a fair level is just concern for Polish families. But the minister, you answer, no one asked. And at this point, when we are in a difficult situation, also the President, in cooperation with the government, announces and introduces concrete solutions, what the President has just shown in his five-year term. I will remind you, because the state here repeatedly repeats words about job protection, about how workers are not protected. From 1 April, now it is 2 months - we are summing up the operation of the shields that have been implemented - the real money that has been transferred to employers and employees to protect their jobs, i.e. to pay salaries, because employers and employees are one whole, that is the vessel connected, is over PLN 73.5 billion. These are real funds that have been transferred to us today. Referring to the bill that you proposed today, and announced it on May 1, this year: all the mechanisms, all the instruments that have been put in place by the government, primarily serve and serve the protection of jobs. We have always announced that we are analyzing the situation on the labour market, we are showing what this situation is like, and the President has proposed a good bill. On the other hand, it would be good for you to read this law well. PLN 1400 solidarity allowance, which includes persons who were employed under an employment contract. Ladies and gentlemen, the first instrument that was proposed by the government, which came into force on 1 April this year, was a parking benefit. The relevant group of people was supported, among others. They were on the contract. So no one was forgotten, each group was secured. Questions that arise also relate to the minimum wage. Ladies and gentlemen, the solidarity allowance of 1,400 PLN is probably more than half the minimum wage. But the President also remembers that since September, unemployment benefits have been offered in the amount of PLN 1200. So this is not 1/3 of the minimum wage, as has been said. First of all, those who will be entitled to this solidarity allowance will be paid for 3 months. But as proposed in the Act: March 31... The amendment that was announced on 15 March is realistic and will include an additional group. And that's what we're able to accomplish, efficiently realize. I'm going to refer to the bill that was presented by the Left Club. Ladies and gentlemen, you are proposing that the county labour offices carry this out. The mechanism is so complicated that when the benefit was actually paid, it is difficult to say. The bill prepared by the President contains an efficient mechanism whereby, if the Senate does not slow down its work in June, people covered by the solidarity allowance will be small this benefit paid. Applications will be submitted electronically, the service will be handled by the ZUS. It is worth repeating, showing how the ZUS works. Today, parking benefits as well as suspension of the ZUS contribution are implemented at 98%. Whereas some county labour offices... I think it is worth mentioning that also the county labour office supervised by President Rafał Trzaskowski on yesterday had the execution of 32%. The average of all the mechanisms from which support (the Bell) is transferred primarily to job protection is about 80%. The Social Security Office also guarantees that those who need this benefit will have the benefit paid as soon as possible. That's what we care about, too. Therefore, the bill proposed by your President is well thought out, is an easy instrument to implement and just show that within a few days of the entry into force of the law, the persons covered by this support will have the benefit paid. There was also a question repeatedly asked from this speaker whether it was appropriate to propose that this benefit should be extended after 3 months. We always say we're analyzing the situation. This law allows - I think it is worth reading it - and gives this delegation to the Council of Ministers, that if the situation on the labour market would be difficult, the Council of Ministers may take such a decision. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely good government cooperation with President Andrzej Duda, that shows the effectiveness of the action, shows the support which is a broad stream of... We are in a difficult situation in which we try first and foremost to mitigate the effects that families... Thank you. Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Magdalena Maląg: ...Polish families were the least affected by this difficult situation. This law also protects Polish families. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u238	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Adrian Zandberg, as corrected. Half a minute, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u239	The Minister said that people in the trash cans were parked. Mr Schwed, who at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finances confirmed that what the Left and the trade unions say about people who theoretically have this right, but do not get it, because you prevented them from making direct proposals themselves, is a real problem. So don't tell me people have access to the parking lot. Listen to the trade unions at the Social Dialogue Council. We have tabled an amendment on this. As I understand it, there will be a vote on her in the voting block in a moment. Minister [[♪ The bell ♪]] confirms that this problem exists. I understand that the Minister will encourage the Law and Justice Club to vote in favour of this amendment of the Left. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u240	Thank you, sir. Mr Paweł Mucha will also answer the questions on behalf of the applicants, the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. You're welcome. I had a formal motion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I thank you very much for both the statements made by your Members in the statements made on behalf of the clubs and the Members' Circle and for the questions you have put forward for this discussion. For me, there is no doubt about what was the foundation of this law - this is real support for 0.5 million people. First of all, it is worth talking about the fact that this law today improves the legal situation of all those who do not have a benefit and receive 1400 PLN net. Contrary to what happened here in the statements, this 1400 PLN net is also addressed to those who are now entitled to receive unemployment benefits. So we have help, which amounts to 1,400 PLN, for 0.5 million people. As I said, in the vast majority they are also those who today expect this support from the High House, and this money comes due to the fact that the President of the Republic of Poland is submitting such a project, and I hope that you will be able to process it efficiently. And in the perspective, there is an increase in unemployment benefit to the amount of PLN 1200, so we cannot talk about the fact that this aid is not adequate aid, it is not aid at the time, it is very necessary today and it is such a help which results from an in-depth analysis. You're also asking about working time on this bill. This is a good bill, this is a law on which experts have worked, this is a law which has been consulted with the social community. There were many voices, references to the concept of solidarity. The best conclusion is that the Independent Self-Governmental Trade Union (Solidarity) participated in this work, supported this law. He prepared this law, supported this law, and it is part of the programme agreement with the Solidarity Agreement, so to those of you who refer to social sensitivity, I say, let the social side speak for itself. Here the social side has spoken for itself and it is clear to me that these solutions are appropriate. Solidarity is not the whole social side. Thank you very much for saying: "Do not say a word." President Andrzej Duda is in office. President Andrzej Duda is the President-in-Office who is taking up public health issues, working with the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, working with the Ministry of Health, with the Chief Health Inspector. President Andrzej Duda focuses on the social, economic and economic consequences of the fight against the coronavirus. These are, for example, solutions such as those developed together with the government, the exemption from the Social Security Office for entrepreneurs. These are situations related to credit holidays, these are solutions for helping farmers who are in the KRUS system. And you really need a lot of bad will to say that this project is a campaign project. He's not campaigning. Today, the task of the President of the Republic of Poland is to carry out his duties under the conditions of a world pandemic, in conditions like this, when we fight COVID-19. The president takes up these challenges and thus presents legal solutions of this kind, which are intended to help 0.5 million Poles. Thank you for the statement and for the voice of Minister Tulayev, because these are actions, not words, that is in practice the implementation of the Andrzej Duda programme, which had this particular social sensitivity and so millions of Poles trusted him in 2015. Today millions of Poles support his program, because it is the authentic proximity of people, that is the sensitivity that makes the president able to talk to people, and this conversation with people is also born with such projects as this particular solution. I feel like I'm not satisfied with Mr Budka's speech, who screamed as if he were a single-member sovereign, that the President had lost or won the election... I would like to say very clearly to Mr Budka: it is the people who decide, the voters decide in the general election, and you will decide this, and not Mr Budka, who is not interested, as I see, in the discussion on this matter. I very much regret that one of the Members of the opposition leader does not want to talk substantively, but has given a very political position on this matter. As regards issues related to the detailed solutions and the Left project, Minister Marlena Maląg referred to them. I will point out that the parking benefit is the legal solution that has been notified here. You are also aware of your project, the critical opinion of the Polish Districts Association, very clearly expressed, and you are also aware that a number of legal solutions that were adopted in the course of the crisis shield have consummated some of these proposals. And I thank you for your declaration of support for this project, because I understand that this sensitivity in the voice of the Left it has also appeared, although I regret very much (the bell) - and this is my answer to Mr Zandberg's question, that you are asking for a substantive debate - that one of the statements of the messengers of the Left was absolutely scandalous, embarrassing. Unfortunately, when you present yourself from the stand, you do not declare what you expected, namely dialogue, culture and respect. I also have an appeal to you that if we want to talk substantively, let us talk substantively. Such statements should not take place - and I say this in the eyes of President Zandberg. Let us speak with each other in substance, and statements of this kind, like one of those that took place here, are insulting to all standards. As far as tax exemption issues are concerned, I was talking about this when I presented the project. I absolutely do not agree with those voices that have been voiced by the members of the Confederation who are talking about the negative effects of this law. We're just different in that assessment. I am convinced that 0.5 million Poles who are waiting for these solutions, not only 0.5 million Poles, but also their families, do not share your very critical view of providing support. It's not a matter of opinion, it's a matter of facts. As for the specific questions, in this case there was not much substance, there was a completely false thesis that the government was responsible for COVID-19 or that the President was responsible for COVID-19. It's an absurd statement, it's not true. Ladies and gentlemen, COVID-19 is an objective phenomenon, it is a pandemic of the world and with these consequences of COVID, we are fighting, minimising the negative effects of COVID, and we know that this challenge outside public health is also economic consequences. So jobs in Poland, which have been lost, are lost today by COVID, not by government actions. On the other hand, the government's actions make this job loss not as big as it could be expected when the pandemic was developing and when we were all worried. The Minister also spoke very clearly about this, that the main task which the President of the Republic of Poland and the Polish government are to set up is to protect jobs, there is support for Polish entrepreneurs, there are resources for Polish entrepreneurs. And it's not in any way an antagonistic law against the government. This is an observation of an objective need. On the one hand, we do everything we can to defend jobs to support Polish entrepreneurs, but we are also aware of the objective situation, those jobs that have been eliminated, those people who are without the right to benefits, and those who are unemployed. Hence the filing of this law, on which the work lasted about a month and it was substantive work. There were appeals to the President's promises. Well, ladies and gentlemen, for a very long time I could talk about how much good has been done in the last five years by Andrzej Duda, thanks to the good cooperation of the parliamentary majority, by Prime Minister Beata Szydło and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, who today gained a vote of confidence from the High House, precisely because there is this particular social sensitivity. Social programs, disposable income of Polish families, the lowest unemployment before COVID in Poland's history, expenditure on the family in excess of 4%, restored as a result of the President's initiative retirement age, credibility, which is crucial in politics, is that the retirement age has returned, which has been increased in previous terms. These political assessments, which you have been taking, are very unfair. On the other hand, I will refer to two specific points. Of course we have backup for borrowers. We have support for all borrowers who have gold loans as well as those who have indexed and denominated loans to foreign currencies. This is non-difficulty support, we support all those who have a mortgage and have found themselves in a difficult situation with regard to the repayment of this loan: whether there is unemployment or other conditions set out in the Act. Amount free for the least earners in the amount of 8 thousand. zł was also introduced. Many changes in taxes have been made in general, and government representatives have repeatedly said so. We know that the tax rate is reduced to 17%, tax exemption for people under the age of 26, etc. To Mr Carrot, who is also not interested, I see, in answering the question he has asked. There was talk of the Western Pomerania. The President of the Republic of Poland supported investments such as the expansion of the gasport in Świnoujście, such as the construction of the tunnel under Świną, such investments as gas blocks, the largest such investment in Europe today, in the Lower Odra Power Plant. Now it was also on the construction of the Polymery Police investment - we have advanced construction and provided funding at the level of over PLN 7 billion. This is the President who keeps his word, who takes care of the sustainable development of the whole of Poland, and this is the President who also sees the Western Pomerania, engages in investment processes, supports these processes on an ongoing basis. So there are so many answers to that question. It has been mentioned, and the Minister has already mentioned it, whether, in view of the situation on the labour market, it is possible to extend the payment of the solidarity allowance. Yeah, that's exactly what the article says. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 5 the Act that the Council of Ministers may, in order to counter the COVID, by means of a regulation, determine a longer period of entitlement to the solidarity allowance. I hope that's not necessary. I am convinced that these actions, which are being taken by President Andrzej Duda and the Government of Law and Justice, serve to ensure that we get out of the crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic as soon as possible. But if there is such a special need, it will be possible to pay a solidarity allowance for more than 3 months. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have this conviction - I do not want to judge statements which were purely political polemics - that we should focus on substantive proposals. I am very pleased that this was the voice of the President's Chancellery, and we discussed it with President Henryk Kowalczyk and with the Minister, of course, that we would like the benefit to be made to the widest possible audience. In the course of the discussion, a substantive proposal was made that the time-cezure should be on 15 March. Of course the position of the President's Office in this area is positive. We are aware that, after disclosure of the first case of COVID at the beginning of March, these effects have already occurred in some workplaces since mid-March, in particular I am thinking about the tourism industry, as well as other areas where there may have been such a situation that the termination of the employment contract took place from day to day. We also know, and the Member State from the parliamentary intervention, and the President from correspondence, who is guided by a request for support, for assistance, such tragic situations when the entrepreneur acted as soon as possible, when legal solutions that today serve Polish entrepreneurs were being processed. I am absolutely in favour of this direction and we are in favour of ensuring that the scope of these provisions is as broad as possible. The solidarity allowance is an appropriate name for the benefit we are discussing. This is also an addition, and solidarity, in both these dimensions this name is adequate. Solidarity, because it is a question of an element of such understanding of the Republic of Poland, as defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, a country which cares for the weaker, such a country which operates within the principle of social justice. We want to help those who are in the most difficult situation. June, July, August. I would like the beneficiaries of these benefits to be as low as possible, and this is aid today, which also depends on how you are going to proceed on this. This could still happen this month to the beneficiaries of the aid. It's up to the High House to do that. The Social Insurance Institution, we know that, together with Minister Maląg, is prepared. There was also a question about the electronic formula. This is a formula that ensures that these applications are handled correctly. It is also such that the Social Security Office, we point out this in the explanatory memorandum, is prepared that by additional employees and detailed advice to launch such an opportunity, that, if a person who can benefit from the legal solutions contained in this law is help in establishing this profile, there is an indication that this application is correct. These funds would be mobilised even within a four-day period. So I am convinced that this will be in June, July, August, and from September - what was proposed and what was mentioned, also an increase in unemployment benefit. High Izbo! I would, of course, like to ask you to support this presidential project with regard to the amendment that has already been announced, because that is what citizens expect today, who are in the most difficult situation for reasons they have not done, for reasons caused by the loss of their jobs due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u242	Thank you very much, Minister. With a formal proposal from Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u243	Mrs. Marshal! I ask you to do so, if you need a break for that, Marshal, it will be a request for a break. My point is to treat everyone who is present equally when it comes to the time limit. On the one hand, we are talking about turning off the microphone - it is not for your marshal directly - even in the middle of a sentence, and on the other hand, for the 15-minute speaking limit of the Minister... Five minutes. You had a 15-minute limit, Minister Fly, and you exceeded it by another 10 minutes. So the proportions are probably not like that. He had five minutes, Member. The second point, however, is to instruct them to stick to their role. First of all, if it's an applicant, it's an applicant. The Minister does not answer the question and is in fact an applicant. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we're talking about such historical issues here. At your discretion, the marshal or your marshal will instruct you in this way whether he will apply this equal limit to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u244	Thank you, Member. It wasn't a formal conclusion, let's make a deal. And in answer to your doubts: I follow the time and, regardless of club membership, I shorten or guard the time of the question. This time is 1 minute and that is what you must accept. But we're talking about answers. The Minister, on the other hand, has remained strict in answering the questions raised in the High House and it has been difficult to limit the Minister's speech, especially since he simply represented the applicants. So much for that. The government has the right to really refer to every bill draft and representative... But it's a time limit. ...the government was the Minister of Family, Marlena Maląg's work. That's it. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a request was made to join the second reading of the law without delay. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. If we have an objection, we will settle this objection in the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 17 mins 32 hrs. 17 min 39]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a motion that we will have to vote on, and therefore the first vote is confirmation of the quorum. I therefore ask Members to press any button to establish a quorum. Formal proposal, Mr, once a quorum has been established. Thank you very much. Please, you are reliable in filing formal applications. I ask Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. The session shall be attended by 425 Members. I'm declaring a quorum. Formal proposal, Mr Grzegorz Braun. One minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u245	Request for a change in the way the discussion and vote are conducted. Let's get back to the subject. My draft resolution to the Hungarian brothers was delivered in advance to the Marshal's office - I have here a present - with a guide letter in which I stated that I was hoping that your Marshal himself, appreciating the importance of this fact, this matter, will... Aside from the rules? ...because he has such statutory powers, to present this text to the High House, to which I do not claim copyright. But since the case has failed, and the herd's laughter on your part... And where did you see that chuckle? ...he testified that you had no idea what was going on at all. So once again, let's keep it quiet. A hundred years ago, the kingdom of Hungary was demolished. A moment of silence in the kingdom of Hungary. [[A moment of silence]] St. Jadwigo, King of Poland! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Pray for mercy on the High House. Jesus Christ.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u246	Thank you very much, sir. Of course, it's not a formal conclusion. I remind you once again: this is not my authority. 15 Members must sign the draft resolution. The Bureau of the Sejm may present a resolution. Mr President, you have written this on a case-by-case basis. Please collect 15 signatures. Please read the handwriting I wrote. I read it thoroughly. I'd rather you read the rules on that. Ladies and gentlemen... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm used to it. It's okay. Don't help me, I'll be fine. Well, I guess... We continue to consider item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the solidarity allowance granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. In view of the proposal to move to a second reading of the draft law, objections were raised. I will put to the vote the proposal to proceed to the second reading of this bill. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of proposing to join the second reading of the draft law in print 406 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 229 - for, 208 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm accepted the proposal and thus agreed to join the second reading of the bill. We proceed to the second reading of the bill. I'm opening a discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the second reading of the bill. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! I'd be surprised if he wasn't there. Because there is opposition, we will vote on this opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, against objection... I'm pulling out. Okay, you're pulling back. Five minutes. You're pulling out? No, we're not. And I'll hold on. Five minutes, for decency. What if I give you four? Okay, four minutes, then. Then we'll open the discussion... Objection, Marshal. Then we'll be back to three minutes, sir. We will vote on this objection and return to three minutes. To be justified. No need, sir. As an objection has been raised against the three-minute speeches on behalf of the clubs, I will put this to the vote. Which of the ladies and gentlemen is... [[Game in the O.R.]] Four minutes. Four minutes. I understand there's no such conclusion. Okay, I understand that the proposal is wrong, because you can't do that without a second reading. You can't? Unbelievable. After all, anything is possible in this House, Marshal. We therefore proceed with the second reading. I'm opening a discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to four minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the second reading of the bill. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Mr Law and Justice, has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u247	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the great honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in the second reading of the bill on the solidarity allowance granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. Once again, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice, I would like to thank the President for his activity, for being so actively implementing his presidency, for being once again present to the High House with his presidential bill. It is very important that today we are discussing this, that we are leaning on those who today need our help, who today need our support, who today need our solidarity. And that's why there's this bill. Once again, I call on the High House to accept these solutions at today's session of the Sejm. Once again, I would also like to stress that President Andrzej Duda's presidency is a very active presidency. The President has repeatedly shown that he is a credible politician when it comes to what he promises during the election campaign, which he promises in the course of his mission. He keeps his word and is very active in carrying out his presidency. During the crisis, the President does not run for medical leave, he does not flee to L4, but indeed in a very mature way, in a very good, effective way to agree, to respond to specific problems, to discuss with the Prime Minister, to meet several times with the Minister of Health. He is a president who works very actively for the people, for his citizens. It must be made clear that once again citizens, Poles have not been disappointed in their President. And today it is also worth to say that there are politicians in Poland who make fun of social programs, who recognize e.g. 500+ program for distribution. On the other hand, fortunately, we have President Andrzej Duda, fortunately we have the Government of Law and Justice, who disagrees with such an approach which shows that we can effectively deliver on our promises, those that have been made. And he looks effectively at those who need our help, who need our support. There are politicians who don't keep their word, who don't keep their promises, who say what they said during the campaign, then let go, and we have those who do, they do well to fulfill their promises. Once again, there are politicians who propose drastic increases in fees for perpetual use, who propose incomprehensible increases in charges for refuse disposal, and on the other hand we have the attitude of President Andrzej Duda, we have the attitude of the Government of Law and Justice, this very good cooperation between the President and the Prime Minister. We have programs that support families, including the 300+ program. There are politicians again who understand helping seniors in such a way that they support them with 20 gr. Fortunately, you are President Andrzej Duda, fortunately there is a parliamentary majority of Law and Justice, which effectively cooperates with President Andrzej Duda, with the significant participation of President Duda, supporting seniors, even through the "Emerity+" programme. Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that today we can make it clear that five years of Andrzej Duda's presidency was a very good time that it was a very active time. And today we have another confirmation, another presidential project. Please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice (the bell) so that we can adopt it quickly. I request that you proceed to the third reading without delay without referring the draft to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u248	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u249	Thank you very much, Marshal. I think that after the speech of my previous speaker, there is no doubt that this project was introduced at this point, with that date, to praise the President-in-Office. You're using the weakest and the most in need. How much hypocrisy and hypocrisy does it take to do that? After all, if you really want to help those in need, when we started dealing with a pandemic, you should propose a comprehensive, universal support system for those in need, and you give us a little bit of individual shields and individual solutions. But one of the solutions you reserved for President Duda so that during the election campaign he could boast about it. Meanwhile, this solution, yes, helps a group of people, but it only helps the group that is in minority. Why didn't you think of giving higher benefits to unemployed people, as we suggested? We made such an amendment to the 3.0 shield so that this allowance would amount to 1800 PLN gross, but you rejected this amendment. On May 13, the Senate made such an offer. On May 14th, you rejected this proposal. In the meantime, the President is now proposing to increase unemployment benefits from September to 1,200 PLN. And we will also hear that abroad they praise us, that we have such wonderful, great help for those who are unemployed. Ladies and gentlemen, let's look at our foreign neighbours. Only in the Czech Republic, if someone loses their job, then the benefit to him is 65% his last salary. In Germany, this allowance amounts to 60% The last salary. And in Poland, what is it? From 25 to 36% of the lowest wage. That's what it looks like. You're saying solidarity. For how many, really? For 0.5 million people. You don't want a higher benefit. Why? Because it would concern, as your department, the Ministry of Development predicts, about 1.5 million people, so many will be unemployed. So the number of unemployed people who would need to be given higher unemployment benefits will be much higher than that solidarity allowance. Not much, this solidarity allowance will also apply to people who are entitled to the benefit, and there will be over 300 thousand of them. So you don't really spend much money on those people who lose their jobs. And that's very sad. On the other hand, as I hear the Minister that the ZUS is doing well, because this solidarity allowance will be paid by the ZUS... Minister, really, get down on the ground and don't tell me any of this nonsense. After all, the Social Security Office even the families who applied for the care allowance for March and April did not pay them in May. And don't tell me there are no such cases, because I'm going to write to you personally about these families because they write to me because I know them, and I'm going to prove to you that the Social Security Office can't afford to pay the welfare benefits, and yet you're giving them the solidarity allowance. You have created such a hybrid in the entire aid system, and you have no idea at all that this system is universal, that these solutions are really systemic, only everything is so up-to-date, single, for the purpose of an election campaign, without looking at those who really need this help. Of course, if you were unable to support a good solution, we will, of course, support it, but it is not an ideal solution, it is neither a common solution nor a system solution. It will only help a certain group of people, but above all, as the previous speaker said, it is intended to serve President Andrzej Duda as part of an ongoing election campaign. It's sad, but unfortunately, that's what it looks like. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u250	Thank you, Member. There you go, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Parliamentary Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u251	High Izbo! At a dynamic rate, we poach through further readings. I would like to start by referring to the Minister's words. I didn't do it before. You said it wasn't true when I said it was 36%. minimum wage. Minister, in order to be clear: in 2016, the last one in which the minimum wage was fixed by the Platform, was PLN 1850, the amount of the benefit after 90 days - PLN 665, or 36%. And now in 2020, Minister, you probably know, the minimum wage - PLN 2,600 and after the adoption of this law after 90 days of allowance is PLN 942,30, or 36%. So much for the presidential version, unless you're referring to the way you raised your allowance last time. At that time, you increased to 26%, which was one of the lowest amounts in the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, at this second reading, we will make amendments to this bill, amendments that repair these holes that I mentioned in the previous speech. First of all, we want some of the garbage workers to benefit from this benefit. Secondly, the question of height. There is something strange about the fact that the benefit to employees is lower than the benefit to entrepreneurs, so we make an amendment so that this amount of solidarity allowance is PLN 2080 per hand, because employees are not worse than self-employed people and must be able to live out of it. The third issue is the unemployment benefit scheme. We want a very modest solution. We offer a modest solution: 50% the last salary. It is much, much less than in Denmark or in other Scandinavian countries, but it will protect people however. What you are proposing at this point is the amount of the benefit that still does not meet the standards recommended by the International Labour Organisation. This is still for many families below the limit of survival. And finally, it's only a matter of time. May this benefit, like in any normal European country, be granted for 720 days, the more that we all know how we are sitting here in this Chamber, that the problem with the economic crisis will not end tomorrow, it will not end the day after tomorrow, it will last for a long time. A large proportion of those who lose their jobs will be long dependent on state support, so let us extend this to a normal framework, to European standards. In a word, ladies and gentlemen, we are making these amendments despite this very surprising pace of work, because let's say here openly: this project came in yesterday at hours. 23, there is not yet - let me check - hour. 18, and we're at the end of the second reading. We're making these amendments so that we can fix this bill so that we can secure the people who are going to lose their jobs. And we ask you to seriously consider these amendments, including the smaller ones, including the technical ones, such as this one, to allow people to benefit from this benefit if they have 30 paid premium days. The point is not to make another benefit out of it, which will not go to a large number of people who really need it, especially those who need it most, because they live in areas where structural unemployment is greater. I encourage you to accept these amendments, and I encourage you to finally break through and put to the vote the bill prepared by the Coalition Left Club. I understand you don't want to put her to the vote right now before the election. You will probably have to put it to the vote in the autumn when unemployment (the bell) will rise and it will be really, really, really needed, but the sooner the better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u252	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Mr Braun is not here. Mr Jakub Kulesza, Confederation. I'm returning the glass. I took it wrongly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u253	Oh, it's a special situation. No, it's usually like the Left keeps liberals. But no more masks, that's why you're returning them. It's like it's in a mask... Mr President, you are running out of time. Of course. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We have heard here from the Member's mouth how generously the President is fulfilling all his promises. If that were the case, it would not be necessary to introduce this harmful project. If the President were to file effectively, as it has now been effectively submitted, that - attention - without committee second reading, there will be a third and myth to sign, a law to raise the tax-free amount to 8,000. PLN for everyone, as he promised, would then be less taxation of work and employers would be more profitable to hire and workers would be more profitable to work. This solution that President Andrzej Duda presented today is double harmful. Not only will it cost us, all citizens, we will pay it in taxes, which in a moment, after the election the President will sign massly, because from somewhere this money has to be taken, but also - and secondly - this solution will have a negative impact on the labour market, because it will encourage redundancies. I've already gotten calls from friends who asked me if they had a deal with their employer to pay them under the table, so they're gonna get this supplement. Yeah, they're gonna get that bonus. So? Will you send thousands of officials to control it? Now that everyone's gone to remote work, how are you gonna check it out? The result will be that unemployment will rise and the state will pay for it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u254	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun concludes. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u255	That is, more and more often it resembles this joke from the time of my Polish-Polish youth: Is it true that in the Red Square they give out powieda? I remind the Members of the younger generation that it was a car or a Soviet car construction. So is it true that the Red Square is being distributed? Radio Erevań answers: yes, actually true, only that it is not in the Red Square, but in the Manege Square, not the pudding, but the bikes, and not the bikes, but they steal. That's the antivirus legislation, that's what those shields look like. Many noisy, unfortunately rash promises, many announcements, for which, of course, will come to pay the countrymen, Poles, of course, not those who will handle these transfers of money cars, because they are the wagons here passing through, right, through this High House. You take this money to the airport, from which Prime Minister Emilewicz takes off with his big helicopter, and scatters it around Poland. But just a number of times from this tribune, my dear colleagues, also from other clubs, you have given this sad statistics about just the first quarter, if only the first half of the year. It's just that the money's getting less and less worth it. What Mr Jakub Kulesza, President of our circle, draws attention to near the Confederation: if we create demand, it will be supply if we encourage employers to have less remorse, slowing down whether or not, if we encourage the workers not to be afraid of changing their employment status, because it will somehow be amortized by power, under the pretense of great benefits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're running a lot of traffic in the gray area. Thank you, sir. And thank you, Marshal, and thank you, I'm grateful... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, we begin to ask questions. I am closing the list of Members who have been enrolled in the question. As the first Mr Michael Szczerba. You're welcome. One minute, I'd just like you to... Are you Michael Szczerba? There isn't. In that case, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz. No? Good. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u257	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I'm just wondering how it happened and for what reason. On the 1st of May, the president was affected by clarity, as described in the explanatory statement, by the applicant that, however, the pandemic could cause workers to suffer... And how did it happen that he did not wait for Our Lady the Queen of Poland, whose feast this year is the next day? Then this clarity would tell him that, however, he can reach out to the proposals made by the Civic Coalition, by the senators, and adopt wise and effective solutions that are indeed solidarity solutions rather than pre-election solutions. What a question. [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u258	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u259	Dear Marshal, Minister! This bill is plagiarism, plagiarism, but failed, plagiarism, which is a copy of the Left Act on Crisis Witnessing. Like a copy, it's... First of all, late, second of all, bad. Fag, sit down - you should say from this podium. But we want to work because we want a good law. Minister, Minister, Mr President, because it is up to you, on 1 May the Left has filed a staff package, a series of laws that are supposed to give more money to unemployed people, who are supposed to give more rights to people on garbage contracts, who are supposed to guarantee rights to those whom you want to release by e-mail. Today we are clear: we want to work on this, we want to adopt this law, but for God's sake, let's not be ridiculous, let's not be 1400, but 2,000. zł. With this proposal, this is what the Left is proposing today to the Minister, to the Minister and, above all, to the President. Copy wisely and well, not in vain. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u260	Mr Dariusz Rosati, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u261	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! It is very good that the President took care of the unemployed, but you should be ashamed that he cares about them when the elections are coming, and that he is simply proposing a sausage instead of a systemic solution... What are you saying? ...for all those who lose their jobs not because of their own fault: either as a result of recession, either as a result of restructuring or as a result of an epidemic. It is worth leaning over these people and really to propose sensible systemic solutions, while what you are proposing in this bill is not only, as I said, an ad hoc electoral sausage written on your knees only to throw a couple of golden voters before the election, but this is also a way, in my opinion very humiliating, of the addiction of voters and Poles in general, because more and more people will come to the conclusion that elections should take place not every 4 years, but every year, to get some more gifts from your government. [[The bell, the applause.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u262	Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u263	Mr. Marshal! The loudly announced presidential solidarity supplement is not him. Well, it's not an unemployment benefit. If you get unemployment benefits, the allowance is to be reduced by the amount of the benefit. The allowance will apply to persons who were terminated after 31 March with termination or whose contract expired after 31 March. And an additional condition, i.e. in 2020 had to be worked out at least 90 days, have a job relationship. For example, if I was in the trash, what then? If e.g. in the village in Warmia-Mazurskie voivodship with great determination someone was looking for a job, but could not find it because there was no offer, it certainly did not find it after the outbreak. So at this point, what does it look like in reality? And another thing: the total cost that has been presented is PLN 1.5 billion. In the event of a crisis benefit, the left founded PLN 3.6 billion (The Bell) but for a month. So this is really a misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u264	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u265	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Immediately after my studies in the late '90s, I was unemployed myself and stood in line for registration at the employment office. True, I never received the benefit, but I learned the bitterness of the fact that you have no job, and you are eager to work. Over 55,000 have arrived in the last month. unemployed, but all those unemployed need state aid in creating jobs, exemption from taxes for entrepreneurs who create such places, and not a campaign grip sponsored not from the pocket of the PiS fund, but from taxes of all Poles and Poles. Why didn't the president agree to the appeal of nurses and paramedics who are on the front line against the coronavirus? Medics called for a thousand zlotys. Mr. President is deaf to these voices. At the same time, I would like to call for caution in using the title of great leader used by Prime Minister Morawiecki in relation to President Duda. In history, the title of the great leader is clearly associated with the founder of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea - Marshal Kim Ir Senem. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u266	Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u267	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've been fighting the Coronavirus pandemic for a few months now, thousands of people have lost their jobs. I don't know what the Ministry of Labour was doing, because it didn't occur to anyone at all to improve the lives of the unemployed. And all of a sudden, Mr. President figured out that right now, before the election, you have to give the benefit. What is your idea? Good. The left has just submitted a project that you are not considering. We want to work, and the Left says, "I'm checking." We have tabled amendments to this project and we will see if you really mean the unemployed, whether you really want to improve their situation in a systematic way and raise the amount of the benefit to a level that will give you a chance to survive, whether it's fiction, bullshit and action during the presidential campaign. I hope people are aware that all this is really a presidential election campaign, and they won't fall for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u268	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u269	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! There are 1300 thousand people working on garbage contracts in Poland. And that number keeps increasing. That's what the CUS data says. Dealing with rubbish forms of employment is one of the unfulfilled promises of President Andrzej Duda in 2015. Most of the victims of this bill are people who work on garbage contracts. And most of them are artists, cultural people and cultural workers. And I wanted to ask: How does the shield for culture, which system is not working at the moment - and it is reported to us from all sides, people of culture write to us... From Warsaw... let the labour offices work. ...is supposed to protect these workers because they're employees who are employed on garbage contracts, too? Why do you keep forgetting about them? Why is there a group of privileged workers here?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u270	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Unfortunately - or stetha - it is not as you say it is about the election campaign because President-in-Office Andrzej Duda takes care of Poles. I have already mentioned here that it was on request that, on the basis of the President's project, the lower retirement age was restored, and the PO-PSL increased this age. The state, when you go out on the stand, you still scare Poles, but if only you were scaring - you were lying. A moment ago, in another debate, you said that some amounts were deducted from the 13th pension, which is not true. And here I have a question to the Minister: Are there any enforcement deductions from the 13th pension? I also have a question about the supplement that we are now introducing: Will any arrears be deducted from this supplement, whether it will be the money that (the bell) people will receive regardless of whether they are in debt or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u272	Mr Henryk Kowalczyk, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank Minister Marlena Maląg and Minister Paul for accepting the proposal to extend the range of beneficiaries of this aid by changing the date - the date on which people received exemptions or automatically expired contracts - from 31 March to 15 March, because there were indeed cases of redundancies and no extension of contracts in connection with the coronavirus in the second half of March. Thank you very much. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice makes an amendment in this regard. Of course, the result of this amendment will also be a reduction in the number of social security days from 90 to 60... Maybe 30 and it'll be just like everybody else... The point is not to enter the accounts in 2019 either, because from March 15th (the bell), if it counts 90 days back... Thank you, sir. ...we'd go in 2019. And that's 60 days. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u274	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u275	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, This bill perfectly confirms what I was talking about today. Once again, in the President's person, they don't pay attention to people employed on civil law contracts, which let's not be afraid to call them trash. What about those employed in this form? If you are no longer able to clean up such contracts, so that employees have all the safeguards, according to the Labour Code, then perhaps it is worth helping those working in trash now, during the crisis. The adjective of solidarity obliges.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u276	Mr Jakub Kulesza, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I got a call from a friend who works at the translation office asking for tax advice. He's hired for an employment contract. The total cost of the employer is 5 000. zł, 40% taxation, so it has 3,000. On your arm. And he figured if he quits now and gets a job for a work contract, and he can do that, he's not just gonna pay $1.5,000. PLN less taxes and he will have $4.5,000 on his hand. zł, but he'll get 1.4 thousand more. PLN of this allowance and salary will almost double: from 3,000. to 5,9,000. zł. They're so smart. Cool. Really, it's a cool tax system you're making. Thanks to this, Poles will not pay so much taxes. Unfortunately, the Left Messengers call such trash deals. Garbage is a Left that punishes the hard work of 40% tax. These civil law agreements only allow for 90% taxation, and that is the reason and dignity of man. Thank you so much for this optimization. It is a pity that not all citizens will be able to use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u278	Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like - I would like to ask Minister Marlena Maląg - if you know the problem with the payment of sickness benefits for micro-enterprises by the Social Security Office, because, as you know, since March the problem has been very big, there are horrendous congestions. Micro-entrepreneurs up to 25 people submit applications for the payment of sickness benefits to the Social Security Office. Unfortunately, the ZUS isn't doing well because 15 grand. applications have been affected and are prepared for 1 000. I've heard you praised the president of the Social Security Office very much, and I don't mind if there was something to be praised for, but you have to understand those workers who haven't received benefits since March and have resentment for entrepreneurs, that perhaps they don't pay contributions, there are conflicts. Look at those little entrepreneurs who are sitting in this house during the epidemic and don't even get that benefit. Answer me (the bell) to that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u280	Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One would like to say: it is better late than never that the President is taking certain actions, but it is clear that these actions are being taken, because you can see fear in the President's Office, you can see how people have come to know you, that unfortunately you are not keeping your word. But I also wanted to ask, because the President often talks about keeping his word, the French are asking about it, when will finally come this bill, which you spoke of the President even five years ago, that, however, he will help the franchise and will currency a franc loan at the price of his withdrawal. Unfortunately, you didn't do anything about it. I wanted to ask Minister Mucha if you are not ashamed, or maybe to the President, for the words he said at the President's Palace: The Homeland will come back to us, Lord. And then Mrs Sadurska, Vice-President of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, moved to PZU and earned over PLN 3 million for 2.5 years. Is that what this country was all about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u282	Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask why the ruling party did not take advantage of the already completed project of the Left, which has been lying for a long time and has not even received the printing number - only now do we have a printed number - even though you have the project ready. The Left's proposal has not been completed, accepted on the agenda and we cannot work on it at the moment. I ask: Why does this solidarity supplement project appear so late when you have a draft supplement, a crisis benefit? My next question. I also wanted to ask why he wasn't on the committee. Is it because he's so good and you don't want to work on him? Luckily, we have some corrections. I hope they're included. I wanted to ask you another question. Why is there such a short period of payment of this benefit, from June to August of this year? Or because it'll be after the second round of the election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u284	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In his May speech, the President also promised an unemployment allowance and unemployment benefits, but according to this bill we have either a benefit or an allowance. In view of the fact that the Member said that the President kept his promises, I am counting on the PiS Club on the one hand, and on the other hand, the President will change the provisions of this law in such a way that it is possible to collect allowances and benefits at the same time... Which is, I understand, more than anyone makes. ...or in the explanatory memorandum we read: If an unemployed person is paid unemployment benefit or a scholarship referred to in the Act, the solidarity allowance will be paid in the amount of the difference between the solidarity allowance paid and the benefit or scholarship paid by the employment office. So if you keep your word, keep what you said to the president. Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The president keeps his word.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u286	Mr Michał Szczerba, Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u287	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's not every day we have a minister from the President's Office, Minister Mucha, so I'm going to take this opportunity to ask about the medical fund. With a big pump on 8 March, Mr President and Minister Szumowski announced the creation of a medical fund. Last year, you announced a medical investment fund. It didn't work out, the medical fund wasn't there, it wasn't there. The key question is: Will this project in the Seym appear before 28 June, or will it not appear? We would like to know the answer to that question. Finally, does the President feel that the conflict of interest situation of Minister Szumowski is appropriate? But shouldn't the President speak on this matter? The Minister, the Prime Minister, the families of politicians should be beyond suspicion. I have the impression that you are overlooking this situation, which is (the bell) a negative situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u288	Mr Piotr Gliński, Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Culture and National Heritage, has now asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u289	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I, as Minister of Culture, Member of the Commission, am here to see you. Madame, I did not see this coming from you. There are about 30 different forms of support for artists during the epidemic. As regards persons employed for civil law contracts, not only artists, but also any other person can receive parking of PLN 2080 per month, times three is 6240 - everyone can get. Regardless of this, there is a system of patronage in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, which we have expanded many times, even yesterday I made some financial decisions within our budget, 4,000. people have already received the aid of 1800 PLN. In addition, we have increased our Minister's programmes by 35 million this year, which are being implemented every year, precisely because of the difficult situation of people of culture. We have also increased the Minister's scholarship pool to 6.5 million to support cultural people who are in a bad situation. As I said, there are about 30 different forms of action being launched, as well as a new programme created specifically within the budget of the Ministry of Culture, which has already been distributed, because we have prepared it so quickly. This money - 80 million PLN was transferred to culture online. So going out here and telling public lies that people of culture have been left to themselves that there are no forms of support... It's just missing the truth. Let's just say it. [[Applause]] But it is worth noting that in fact people of culture were deprived of support, e.g. in the case of the Warsaw government. Warsaw has prepared two programmes as part of support for culture, one of them for 1 million PLN, the other I do not know, but I think it is about the same plus flexibility of solutions, which is normal, because we all changed the rules to just help people in this difficult time. So that's the proportion or the difference. The 20-billion-dollar budget of the city, of which 1 million goes to the aid scheme for people of culture, and over a 5-billion-dollar budget of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage actually increased by 50% over 4 years, that is, an event worth talking about when we talk about the culture from which it goes to help people of culture - it is about this budget of my department - about PLN 100 million right now. And from the anti-crisis shields, from what we've presented, and what's being supplemented all the time, because there are special solutions for the monuments of support history, filmmakers, etc... Kazik Staszewski. ...I'm not going to talk about it, there are millions and billions coming, because people working for the so-called. garbage cans, as you say, receive primarily parking on civil and legal contracts, but there are also many other support options for them at the moment. On the other hand, with regard to the proposals for the disposal of garbage cans, we have, of course, implemented them in many areas. Me, for example. I had 20% in my resort. people working in trash cans. At the moment, these are incidental random cases resulting from the fact that someone just for a while serves as a department worker. And it's natural. I can't imagine that we could decree in Poland preventing people from entering into civil and legal contracts concerning works or commissioned works. But in general, the situation is quite incomparable with what we found from our colleagues turboliberals, who gave little importance to it. So that change is big. Would you do me a favor... And that's a positive change. Yes, sir, there is a big change in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u290	Thank you very much. Thank you, Prime Minister. The Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy Marlena Maląg will now speak. Mr Marshal, the Minister spoke to me: yes, sir, he said a sentence I must correct. No, no, now is not the time for discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u291	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! I will refer once again to the fact that this is a good cooperation between the government and President Andrzej Duda, and from the beginning, the winning of President Andrzej Duda in 2015, caused a good time for Poland, the construction of Poland+, support for Polish families and all programs: 500+, good start, 13th pension, reduction of the retirement age you took. [[Applause]] We found ourselves in a difficult situation caused by the pandemic and clear, legible, simple instruments prepared by the government for the protection of jobs, for the liquidity of our entrepreneurs and for the employees to get paid, is the operation of our shields, which we sum up. Today, we can safely say that more than 73 billion zlotys have been found to protect jobs first and foremost, so that the funds will be paid for the salaries of workers. We keep saying that we are analyzing the instruments presented, and it is precisely this good cooperation with the President, for which we thank you, for the bill submitted yesterday... It's your project, isn't it? Come on. ...which is directed primarily to those who need support... So the solidarity supplement, which is provided for in the Act, is above all broad support. Note that this is 1,400 zł net, so multiple reference countries are not real. And since September unemployment benefits raised to PLN 1200. Ladies and gentlemen! I'm gonna go back to the questions that came out here. The Member asked whether the solidarity allowance was subject to some kind of execution. No, Madam President, this is how the President predicted that no enforcement action would be included in this absolutely. That's great. That's great. That's great. You're a gracious man. She referred to the failure of the Social Security Office. ZUS, when it comes to instruments... Here I will remind you that ZUS performs payment of parking benefit, suspension of the ZUS contribution. The performance of this task at yesterday's level is 98%. There was a question about sick benefits. Only today's sickness benefits from e-ZLA have been registered 50,000. The ZUS introduced new instruments, introduced an electronic robot that will support the payout, and these improvements are being implemented on an ongoing basis. [[Applause]] But they don't give money from March. That is why today I would like to thank both the professor who runs the Social Insurance Institution and all its employees, because the employees of the Social Insurance Institution are today carrying out their tasks not 100%. , only at 500%. Ladies and gentlemen! The bill prepared by your President is, above all, another instrument to support Poles and Poles. We are working all the time to protect jobs above all, because this is a priority. And that's why at this point, at the right moment, this law is introduced. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You didn't answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u292	Thank you. Mr Paweł Mucha, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for these voices in the discussion, because they reflect the fact that this law is the answer to real social needs. This is a law that is a real support tool today, as we said, for 0.5 million Poles. This is a law that only in 2020 directs 2150 million PLN to this support. And either someone has sensitivity and sees the need for these measures to be directed there, or he lacks that sensitivity, which is something. not to be removed. Those voices that deny the need for this help are really inconsiderate. About the quota issues. This is so that if we have a minimum remuneration for the amount of the solidarity allowance, we have more than 50%, because we have, looking at even gross, net, 1400 PLN of the solidarity allowance and a minimum salary of 2600 gross less. That's the first thing. Second thing. The President's statement is still lacking in information that unemployment benefits during the first 3 months amount to PLN 1200. And the President gives the amount after the end of these 3 months, and we are talking about the fact that the unemployment benefit will be raised from 1 September. This is a change that has been expected for a long time, this is a change that has also been proposed by the Left, but implemented by the President's initiative. The bill is not a plagiarist, the law is in no way a plagiarist. It was right here that Prime Minister Piotr Gliński spoke about the provision of parking services, about the elements that were put in place as part of the government's work. For a long time, the beneficiaries of these benefits have been in operation and have received these benefits. On the other hand, the law, which was reported by the state, was negative, I spoke about this, among others. By the old men. So you wanted to impose a legal obligation on the county council. The district government in a very harsh, critical opinion pointed to numerous shortcomings of this law, errors in this law, and the law, as I said, was not modified in any way. It is impossible to agree with the statement that we are talking about any plagiarism. It's from the heart. We are so convinced that you had intentions, or do you have those intentions that should reflect the fact that you will support this law of the President. A very disturbing voice pointed out that these are legal solutions that addict voters. I cannot accept such a statement from one of your Members, because this is a voice that has been repeated since the introduction of the 500+ programme, such a kind of pride, arrogance towards Poles who have lower incomes, or therefore 0.5 million people who are now entitled to this benefit. It's not like it's anybody's addiction to voters. This is State aid to those who have been in a difficult situation for reasons, as I said, not to be blamed for themselves, for objective reasons, for reasons related to the outbreak of COVID-19. Today, state aid goes on multi-track, because this aid, as Minister Marlena Maląg has said here, is the liquidity of entrepreneurs, it is a financial shield, it is the actions of the Polish Development Fund, it is the means connected with the liquidity of Polish entrepreneurs, that is above all the protection of jobs. Stop bragging now, because it's disgusting. But at this point, when it did not work and the employer made difficult decisions, probably difficult for him to terminate his employment contracts, when the fixed-term contracts expired and there was no possibility of finding employment, we realized, as the President said on 1 May, this obligation to help both those who lost this job as a result of the termination of their employment contract and those whose temporary contracts expired because it could not be extended because it could not be extended, for example. the provision of services, production, because the goods could not be exported abroad etc., because there were objective circumstances which resulted in the termination of this employment relationship. In this respect, this law fulfils this real need in terms of supporting those who are in such a difficult situation in life. There is a law, about the difficult situation of life, which is part of the legal system in force in Poland. It's been in force since January 1st of this year. To answer your question, I would like to say that this is a law on the support of borrowers in financial difficulties. I already told you that. It includes both those who have gold loans and those who have indexed loans, denominated. It does not differentiate those who have loans to francs and those who have gold credits. These are the solutions that are in the Creditor Support Fund. It is about more than 600 million PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This law is also applicable this year, it is very much needed. Thank you very much, Minister. The Medical Fund. The Medical Fund project will be submitted and work on this law is ongoing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u294	Thank you very much. The Member shall be corrected. Half a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u295	Minister! In corrigendum mode. I was comparing 36%. Platforms after 3 months with your 36% also after 3 months. If you don't twist it, if you don't turn it around, the truth is brutal: it's 36% all the time. And that's not enough. All experts say that this level of unemployment benefit is too low. All you have to do is compare with our neighbors. It is also enough to read the work of the International Labour Organisation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This really isn't the time to be cheap. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u296	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, a proposal was made to join the third reading of the draft law after the statement of amendments had been sent to the ladies and gentlemen. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 18 min. 45 hrs. 19 min 01]] I'm reopening the session. We'll start with a quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. Thank you. 427 Members are taking part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. We would like to return to the review of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law on bank loan interest payments to ensure liquidity for COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 390-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u297	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Public Finance, I present to the committee an additional report on the Government's draft law on bank loan interest subsidies granted to ensure liquidity to operators affected by the effects of COVID-19 and on the amendment of certain other laws. The report is contained in print No 390-A. 144 amendments were tabled at the second reading in the plenary room on 28 May. 18 amendments were withdrawn during the work of the committees on 2 and 3 June. Of the other amendments, 28 the committee recommends that we accept, the rest of the committee recommends that we reject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u298	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 390. The Commission also presents minority proposals and - in an additional report - amendments on which we will vote first. On amendments 1, 3, 5, 8, 11, 22, 23, 30, 33, 37, 39, 42, 48, 49, 51, 52, 53, 90, 94, 98, 116, 117, 118, 120, 121, 123, 124 and 125, as the applicants wish, we will vote together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of these amendments will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 346 - for, 47 - against, 40 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the second amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 25 draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 215-- for, 232-- against, one abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose to add to the draft law art. 25b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 170 - for, 232 - against, 49 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 27 draft law applicants propose to add point 1. Amendment 10 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 6 and 10 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 7th amendment, applicants propose amendments to Article. 27 point 2 of the draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 170 for, 281 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the article. The 27th draft law of the applicant proposes to add point 3. Amendment 12 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 9 and 12 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 45 - for, 283 - against, 123 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 13th amendment to the article. 30 of the draft law of the applicant propose to delete point 1. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 13th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 57 - for, 262 - against, 132 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 14th amendment to the article. 31 of the draft law, the applicants propose to add point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 14th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 166 for, 281 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the first minority application, the applicant shall propose to delete Article. 33 draft law. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 88 for, 232 against, 132 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 15th amendment to the article. 34 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I have a request to vote quickly, maybe there will be questions. You confabulate, of course. A storywriter... Your marshal doesn't put the motion to the vote? Because the proposal is not a proposal to vote because the Member has requested a change in the way the discussion is conducted. We're not having a discussion, and I'm using the art. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial 452 Members voted. 210 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 34 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 4. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 209 - for, 241 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. 34 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 5. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 2nd minority proposal irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 141 - for, 258 - against, 49 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second minority proposal to Article. 34 the draft law of the applicant proposes an amendment to point 5. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 211 - for, 235 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 18th amendment to the article. 34 of the draft law, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 8. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 213 - for, 233 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 34 of the draft law propose to add point 12. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 168 - for, 282 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 35a to the bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 168 - for, 233 - against, 48 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 37a for the bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 47 for, 236 against, 169 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Mr President, I will not put this to the vote because you are asking me to allow questions to be asked, so I repeat once again - Article. Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Two-- that I wouldn't change my mind. But that's not what the proposal is about. That's exactly what you said. But absolutely, I can read it. In the 24th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 41b to bill draft. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Maybe I can justify it. The Commission is the place for discussion, and you didn't come to committee meetings. 452 Members voted. 13 - for, 311 - against, 128 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 43 draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 212 - for, 234 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 26th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 44a for the bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 218 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 44b to bill draft. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 84 for, 361 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. 45 point 2 of the draft law propose that the applicant delete point (a). a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 166 for, 282 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 47a to the bill. In accordance with the wishes of the applicants, we will consider this amendment together with Amendment 81. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 29 and 81 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 158 - for, 291 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 31st amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 48. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 31st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 208 - for, 240 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 32nd amendment, applicants propose a new wording of Article. 49. Amendment 122 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 32nd and 122nd, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 13 - for, 431 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 34th amendment, applicants propose an amendment to Article. 52 point 1 of the draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 34th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 208 - for, 235 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 35th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 56a to the bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 35th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 208 - for, 230 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 36th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 59 draft law. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 36th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 10 for, 307 against, 128 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 38th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 60b to bill draft. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 38th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 214 - for, 231 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 40th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 60d to bill draft. Amendment 68 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 41 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 40 and 68 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 217-- for, 231-- against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 41st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 60d to bill draft. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 41st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 170 - for, 281 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 43rd amendment to the article. 61 draft law applicants propose to add point 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 43rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 217-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 44th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 61a for the bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 44th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 39 - for, 282 - against, 129 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 45th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 61b to bill draft. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 45th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 40 for, 233 against, 175 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 46th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 63a to the bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 47th amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 46th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 215-- for, 233-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 47th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 63a to the bill. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 47th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 87 for, 236 against, 127 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 50th amendment, the applicant proposes to add an article. 64c to bill draft. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 50th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 38 - for, 281 - against, 129 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 51 to 116 and 3 of the minority proposal were tabled in Article. 65 draft law. In the 54th amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 4b. In accordance with the wishes of the applicants, we will consider this amendment together with Amendment 55. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 54th and 55th, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 157 for, 288 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 56th amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 4d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 56th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 15 - for, 303 - against, 126 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 57th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 4e. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 57th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 168 - for, 282 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 58th amendment, the applicant proposes to add points 4f and 4g. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 58th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? I am a lobbyist of the free market, of every free, free enterprise, especially the smallest, germinating one. If you want to have a discussion, please step out into the cockroaches. Please, sir. That's what this room is for. No, she's not for that. We're at the vote right now. That's why I've been making two formal applications to speak out of this podium. 450 Members voted. 214 - for, 235 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 59th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 5c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 59th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 220 for, 234 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 60th amendment, applicants propose to add lit. d in paragraph 6. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 60th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 38 - for, 281 - against, 128 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 61st amendment, the applicants propose an amendment to point 9 (a). a. Amendment 92 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 61 and 92 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 62 for, 264 against, 125 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 62nd amendment, the applicants propose in point 9 to add point. Uh-huh. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 62nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 214 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third minority application, the applicant proposes to delete points 11, 22, 39 and 40. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 63, 64 and 65 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 79 - for, 241 - against, 130 stopped. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 63rd amendment, the applicants propose an amendment to point 11. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 64 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 63rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 91 for, 229 against, 129 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 64th amendment, the applicants propose an amendment to point 11. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 64th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 212 - for, 233 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 65th amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 11. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 65th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 162 - for, 278 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 66th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 11a. In line with the wishes of the applicants, we will consider this amendment together with Amendment 83. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 66th and 83rd, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 160 for, 284 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 67th amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 11b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 67th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 217-- for, 231-- against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. 69. the applicant's amendment proposes to add point 13a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of 69. fixes, he'll want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 132 for, 307 against, 10 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 70th amendment, applicants propose to add point 13b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 70th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 167 for, 232 against, 48 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 71st amendment, the applicants propose to add point 13c. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 71st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 165 - for, 233 - against, 49 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 72nd amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 13d. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 72nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 169 - for, 278 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 73rd amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 13f. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 73rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 161 - for, 289 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 74th amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 14. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 74th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's in front of... Who's holding back? Your marshal something... It's time for a break, isn't it? I'll see you tomorrow, for example. Not until tomorrow, but at least five minutes. The vote was 448. 167 for, 280 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 75th amendment, applicants propose among others. add lithium. c in point 15. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 75th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 158 - for, 282 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 76th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 20a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 76th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 208 - for, 235 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 77th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete point 21. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 77th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 47 for, 233 against, 168 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 78th amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 21b. Amendment 126 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 78th and 126th, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 217 - for, 231 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 79th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 24a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 79th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 211 - for, 232 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 80th amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 25. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 80th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 170 - for, 230 - against, 49 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 82nd amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 25. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 82nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] 450 Members voted. Za-210, against- 232, holding off on eight. The Sejm's amendment accepted... [[Joy in the Chamber]] Rejected? He turned it down. Resume! Resume! In the 84th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 26a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 84th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] You haven't driven a marshal in a long time. The first one he made a mistake, he flew. 451 Members voted. 220 for, 231 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 85th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete point 27. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendment 86 irrelevant. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 85th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 42 - for, 279 - against, 127 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 86th amendment, the applicants propose to add lit. a-e in point 27. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 86th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 81 - for, 236 - against, 131 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 87th amendment, applicants propose to add lit. aa in point 28. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 87th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 91 for, 231 against, 129 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 88th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 29a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 88th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 218 - for, 230 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 89th amendment, applicants propose to add, among others, point (a) is replaced by the following: aa in point 30. Amendment 119 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 89th and 119th, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 143 - for, 256 - against, 49 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 91st amendment, applicants propose to add lit. aa in point 31. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 91st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 95 - for, 232 - against, 124 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 93rd amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 32a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 93rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 39 - for, 230 - against, 177 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 95th amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 33a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 95th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 41 - for, 284 - against, 126 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 96th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 33c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 96th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 213 - for, 232 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 97th amendment of the draft law, applicants propose a new wording of point. and in point 34. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 97th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 42 - for, 279 - against, 130 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 99th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 42a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 99th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 39 - for, 231 - against, 177 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 100th amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 42b. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 100th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 41 - for, 233 - against, 174 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 101st amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 43. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 101st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 216 - for, 234 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 102nd amendment, the applicant proposes an amendment to point 43. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 102nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 160 - for, 286 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 103rd amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 43a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 103rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 39 - for, 232 - against, 177 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 104th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 43b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 104th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 94 for, 234 against, 121 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 105th amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 44a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 105th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 84 for, 232 against, 130 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 106th amendment, the applicants propose a new wording of point 45. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 106th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 39 - for, 278 - against, 133 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 107th amendment, the applicants propose to add point 47a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 107th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 39 - for, 233 - against, 179 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 108th amendment, the applicants propose a new wording of point 49. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 108th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 42 for, 276 against, 131 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 109th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete point 50. Amendment 114 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendment 110 irrelevant. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 109th and 114th, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 166 for, 231 against, 52 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 110th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of point 50. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 110th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 14 - for, 311 - against, 127 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 111st amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 50a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 111th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 12 - for, 309 - against, 127 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 112th amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 51a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 112th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 11 - for, 308 - against, withered 131. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 113rd amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 52a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 113th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 85 - for, 235 - against, 130 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 115th amendment, the applicant proposes to add point 55a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 115th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 12 - for, 311 - against, 130 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 390, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Shame - what you're doing. Shame! It's a ruining act. 455 Members voted. 228 - for, 189 - against, 38 stopped. The Sejm has passed a law on the interest rate subsidies for bank loans granted to ensure liquidity for operators affected by the effects of COVID-19. You haven't accepted any of our amendments. Because they were stupid. We return to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: First reading of the bill presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the solidarity allowance granted in order to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. The Sejm carried out the first reading and decided to immediately join the second reading of the bill. A summary of the amendments tabled during the second reading was delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We proceed to the third reading. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to add a new wording to the Article. 2. The adoption of this amendment will render the 2nd amendment futile. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 16 - for, against - 421, 8 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the second amendment to the article. 2 (2) applicants shall propose an editorial amendment. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 431 - for, 10 - against, abstained 5. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the third amendment to the article. The applicants shall propose a different wording of paragraph 3. 1. The adoption of this amendment will result in the futility of the 4th and 5th amendments. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 200 for, 240 against, 13 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) Points 1 and 2 of the applicant shall propose the date 31 March to replace the date 15 March. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 430 for, 9 against, 8 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 3 (1) (a) 1 applicants propose a 90-day replacement period of 60 days. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 437 - for, against - 7, 6 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 4 applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 196 - for, 251 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose an editorial amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 446 - for, 4 - against, stopped 4. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 8th amendment, the applicant proposes an editorial amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 445 for, 1 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendments 9 and 10 were tabled in Article. 15 draft amending act containing amendments to the Employment Promotion Act and the institutions of the labour market. In the 9th amendment to the article. 72 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1.3. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 197 - for, 252 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 10th amendment to the article. 73 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1 and the addition of paragraph 1. 1a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 198 - for, 255 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 406, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 430 for, 15 against, 9 abstentions. The Sejm passed a law on the solidarity allowance granted to counter the negative effects of COVID-19. [[Applause]] I'm declaring a three-minute technical recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 36 hours 22 min 41]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Health Łukasz Szumowski (prints No. 398 and 403). I ask the representative of the applicants, Mrs Barbara Nowacka, to provide a justification for the proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I ask for a vote of distrust towards Minister Łukasz Szumowski - perhaps the biggest profession of recent months, the man who pretended to be hopeful, and when the masks fell, we saw the face, the real face of the PiS government. The face of conflict of interest, corruption and failure. You couldn't make it. [[Applause]] Bravo! The county hospitals under your rule have been raining for a long time. Doctors queues - still long. No nurses, no halls, no midwives. The drug crisis - another failure. And the Polish Internet is roaring from collections to children, to sick people, to medical equipment. It's your fault, too. You haven't prepared the country for a pandemic. There are no protection measures for both medical personnel and hospital patients. No thoughtful freezing process and no defrosting strategy. But you supported the election - a political decision, and unfortunately, Minister, far from health care. In silence, you watched billions of people go to public television, and you didn't mind that the money might have gone to cancer, and they wouldn't. Did you vote against increasing the testing of doctors and health professionals as one of them or as a traitor to this professional group? But you clapped, gagging on doctors' mouths, gagging on epidemiologists, firing people for telling the truth, including. The nurses who told us what the hospital situation was like. The fact that there is such a low disease curve in Poland that it flattens, is not because of you or your government. Don't give yourself the credit of the citizens. What happened was thanks to Poles and Poles. They're the ones who helped people. These are doctors and nurses, DPS employees, health professionals, health care professionals... Mr. Marshal, I have a favor to ask. This is a vote for the Minister and behave accordingly. Sit down and sit down. I'm sorry, I'm running out of time. Please turn it off. [[Have a seat. Have a seat. This isn't your farm, Mr. President.]] Mr Budka, sit down and calm down. This isn't your farm, this is the Sejm. Mr Budka, I call you to order. Your CEO, I think. Mr. Marshal, the Sejm's seriousness was different once. It's a hucpa and scandal, it's a vote of distrust. This is a hucpa and a scandal. I'd really like to ask... Sit down and listen. Have a seat. You're the first one to get up and start making a fuss. No, the president turned his back... Mr Budka, this is the second time I draw your attention. But who's the marshal paying attention to? Mr Budka. But who turns their backs? Mrs Nowacka, please continue. No one's ever seen a rabble like that in this Seym before. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Oh... From the rabble he challenges Mr Kaczyński. Jarosław Kaczyński - a riffraff to Members? Shame! Shame! A ruthless riffraff? What was that, marshal? Apologize to me. I'm not a rabble. I have the impression that Mr Kaczyński... [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] You're talking about the people, you're talking about the Poles. That's a real face. That's what you think of the Poles. Mr. Marshal... Mr. Budka, sit still. Mr Marshal, I have the impression that Mr Kaczyński has called us a rabble. Scandal! You used the word traitor to the constitutional minister who's protecting us from the epidemic, so please... Prime Minister, please... You didn't understand, as usual. Talking about a riffraff to MPs? Who do you think you are? Could you get the marshal's attention, please?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u300	Mr Rutnicki, please sit still. Jarosław Kaczyński - a rogue to Members. That's what the Members say. But, Marshal... Then apologize for the president. Have a seat... Apologize! I'm not a rabble. Apologize to me. Mr. Marshal, please respond to these words. It can't be like this. Stop making a fuss and sit still. But who's making a fuss? Jarosław Kaczyński called the riffraff of the MPs. It's the country you're making a fuss about. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 22 min. 46 hrs. 22 min 50]] I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 22 of the agenda. Please, Mrs Barbara Nowacka... Will there be an apology? I think the apology should go down, Mr. Marshal. ...used the rest of the time. Then apologize. Exactly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u301	Mr. Marshal! Before I speak, I'd like to say that I've heard the President's leopardism a few times. When he walked into that cemetery that I couldn't get into, because then his pain was bigger than mine. [[Applause]] Scandal! Disgraceful! At the same cemetery where my mother, the victim of the Smolensk disaster, went to lay flowers for his mother and his brother, and others couldn't. You could have, too. And now, today, he dares to challenge me... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] What is this, turning off the microphone? Member, please get to the point. You have one more minute. No, Mr. Marshal... Proceed. ...I don't have a minute because... Proceed. Yes, go on. This isn't Belarus, Marshal. [[The Vice Marshal turns on the microphone]] Once again, we see what PiS is. New solidarity is built up among people, those insulted and humiliated, those who supported sick people, those who sew masks. And the PiS has once again presented his cash change to us. The arrogance we saw here in the courtroom, corruption, nepotism - these are your names, the new PiS elite. [[Applause]] You want some examples? Minister Szumowski, representative of this elite, Medical Research Agency. In March he founded it himself, called it himself, and then it turns out that in April [[♪ The bell ♪]] 2020 wins, for 19 million, BrainScan - BrainScan, whose shareholder is Life Science, owned by the brother and wife of Minister Szumowski - a medical project concerning COVID-19. This is a conflict of interest. After our control, Mr Ionski and Mr Szczerby, the money was not paid, but PLN 200 million in 2015-2020 went to companies associated with Minister Szumowski. Thieves. Scandal! Is this what your Poland looks like? And now what are the results? In one of the conclusions we read: Implementation of the project results will be carried out by selling a global licence to a pharmaceutical company. Is that how you get off your knees, pseudo-trioties? Your rudeness is unbelievable. Shame, shame. The entrepreneurial minister, in accordance with the instructions of a colleague from the government, thought that a pandemic was the time to make money for entrepreneurs. And they've made a lot of money-- buddies. But first he secured them, secured them in code so that the officials would not be punished. And it went: ventilators, weird shopping, overpriced. Skiers and oscypki salesmen made 220 grand. on the mediation between the warehouse in Rzeszów and the Ministry of Health. The Ministry could have made those purchases itself. They were making money from the minister's friends. We've heard so much about Prime Minister Kicker here. But unlike Mr. Szumowski, she stood up to the task... Oh! And she didn't buy defective vaccines, even though you wanted to scare her with the D.A.'s office, [[Applause]] And there was an artificial lung in every voivodship. So? How many companies did it take? How many skiers have they made? Luckily, no skier. We say we've had enough. And the Poles, and the Poles are sick of what you're doing, the conflicts of interest that you're covering and which you're going to be doing, corruption, nepotism, this domestic change of yours. I know that today you will defend Mr. Szumowski, but his sins fall upon you, his oversights, conflicts of interest. People can see you're covering for him. You're in pain, you're in pain. And people will settle you sooner than you think. And the minister is waiting for the prosecutor, and the committee of inquiry. And this is a firm commitment from the Civic Coalition. [[Applause]] Oh, no. Don't laugh. Don't laugh. Arrogance has been your name for years. It's over. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u302	The Sejm has determined that in the discussion on this point... Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Not yet. I will now ask Mr Tomasz Latos to present his opinion to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u303	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! I would like to present a report from the committee on prints 398 and 403 on the vote of distrust for the Minister of Health. After a long, in-depth debate, the Commission recommends rejecting the proposal for a vote of distrust to the Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo! I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u304	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Member of Przemysław Czarnek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u305	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a special honor and honor... Ha, ha, ha! ...on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice [[Applause]] present your position... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, I draw your attention. ...on a vote of distrust, a motion of distrust for the best minister of health in the history of the Republic of Poland... What, what? ...we have no doubt about it. [[Applause]] This would be a position against the motion for a vote of distrust, if not for the fact that what you have written here and what has been confirmed by my previous speaker, by the Member in a scandalous, abusive and rude way... Scandalically Kaczynski behaved. ...it's a bunch of crap and a classic toothbrush. It's not a motion for distrust, it's a classic pusquel... Thieves, thieves. ...a parakeet based on three foundations. Basement number one. Foundation number one is that here is Minister Łukasz Szumowski who has not prepared... [[Game in the O.R.]] Members chant: Apologize, apologize, apologize! Mr. Marshal, I'm gonna take a break for a second. Mr Rutnicki - I warn you again. Basement number one. Minister Łukasz Szumowski has not prepared Poland for a pandemic - a series of arrears, a series of bad decisions that led to how you write here, that it put Poles at risk, to mass diseases caused by the coronavirus. This is a peacock that all Poles already know about. It just doesn't fit the facts and the reality. And the reality is absolutely clear and the facts are clear. Thanks to the work of Łukasz Szumowski, tens of thousands of people, tens of thousands of lives were saved in Poland. [[Applause]] Bravo! These are facts. But you have a human life for nothing. It's not just the conceived... Millions killed, millions. ...which you are demoting to some fetus, but the lives of all Poles. Thieves. You do not notice that in Poland we have a thousand victims of Coronavirus. That's a thousand too many. It's a shame for every victim. We regret and condolences to the families of all the victims. But $1,000. It's not thirty-two thousand like Italy, it's not 27,000. As in Spain, it's not over 4.5,000. as in Sweden, to which some colleagues from the Confederation referred. In Sweden, which is four times smaller, there are sixteen times more victims of Coronavirus. Do you know why there is less in Poland? Because Łukasz Szumowski is a doctor of true vocation, of blood and bone, a doctor dedicated to patients, a great cardiologist. 200 million. But above all, Łukasz Szumowski is a man raised in Christian values, this is a man who used to go to hospitals when doctors were missing, and always worked there for free. [[Applause]] You don't see that. Most importantly, Łukasz Szumowski, in addition to his parents' upbringing and growing among his excellent family, was a volunteer together with his wife, who you also smugly and rudely... And my brother. ...was a volunteer who worked alongside St. Teresa's mother from Calcutta saved people in India for free. [[Applause]] About millions stolen. For eternal absolution. This is exactly what Łukasz Szumowski is like, but it doesn't suit you, because you would want to have 30,000 in Poland. victims to have the coronavirus in Poland earlier. It doesn't suit your conspiracy theory, it doesn't suit your slogans tonight. The state of the natural disaster. There's no disaster. You're sorry about that, too. It doesn't suit you either. A thief is a thief. Hold on to your words, buddy. Because you don't like it, you hit your family. Who is Marcin Szumowski, CEO of OncoArendi? Marcin Szumowski, contrary to what you want to tell the public - but society already knows - is a professor of American universities, a man who created companies... Money-snatching machines. ...which are leading when it comes to the biotechnology market, and which have excellent research results. You know what? Over cancer medicines for Poles, cheaper and more effective. With great accomplishments. [[Applause]] In milking money. But you hit him, falsely and abusively speaking in the media... These Members are here, I see them in the Chamber: Mr Kowal, Mr Urbaniak, who say that Łukasz Szumowski made 140 million zlotys in the pandemic. This is a complete mix-up of all the lies you've been throwing. You can't tell the Poles that Marcin Szumowski, Mr Łukasz Szumowski's brother, is only 90% in the OncoArendi. And how much did he make? You will not say that during your reign, the OncoArendi received eight grants from the NCBR for eight complex ones, and since Łukasz Szumowski was Minister, in four cases this funding was not available. You're not gonna say that again. And the other forms? What about the Medical Research Agency? You can't say that there are 90 people employed in this company, [[♪ The bell ♪]] They say 80 are scientists. You can't say that because it doesn't suit your false thesis. [[Applause]] One last thing. It's already a cherry on the cake. You want to accuse Łukasz Szumowski of being involved with some Daniel O. Łukasz Szumowski is one of those who fell victim to the irreality of a man who caused that a team of doctors worked for free and without results - by the integrity of a man who was later accused of something else - and thus you want to remove him from the Ministry of Health, the best minister. Shame and shame. To conflict of interest. These are hypocritical and absolutely unbelievable things you're doing with Łukasz Szumowski. Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I would like to express my appreciation and gratitude to you. Time's up. I want to tell you that we are doing this not on our own, but on behalf of millions of Poles who pray for you and your family in the mud. [[Applause]] But it's not mud thrown only at Łukasz Szumowski. It is also mud thrown at the intelligence of Poles. You despise Poles. TVP Info. You despise cancer patients. Two billion Mrs. Lichocka. You have Polish biotech companies in contempt. You despise Poland. Therefore, we will vote against the vote of distrust against Łukasz Szumowski. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u306	Mr Paweł Kowal, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This tribune has heard dramatic questions in its history. She has heard questions about whose Poland is to be: Should there be one party, or should it be a common good? Should it be TKM, or should it be open to every Pole? Black horse. At least keep your respect for those quotes I've quoted right now, because you don't know who I'm quoting. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Giertych. First of all, I'd like to address the gentlemen. You've celebrated John Paul II's visit here so many times. He spoke from here. Today you didn't have any resistance to talk to a woman like that. I'm outraged by that. Just say "I'm sorry." [[Applause]] Apologize. ...for the moment she spoke in this courtroom... Leave the Pope alone. If Minister Gliński demands respect for the Minister's office, then, Minister, Prime Minister, show first that you have respect for the Member of the Republic, change these standards, do not stand back when she speaks. Are you... Don't talk to me now. You'll have your time. These are rhetorical questions for you to turn red. [[Applause]] Bravo! What's this? What kind of performance is this? Black horse with no spine. And now to the Minister of Health: Minister, you have failed many people, including those of the opposition. I've looked at you, too, many times, even with some admiration, but the moment we tried to trust you, you got involved in political craftsmanship. We saw a doctor in you, and you were looking for a way to vote instead of an election. Oh, you're in pain. He didn't say what you wanted. That's what this is about. It hurts. That's it. When we thought it was really about finding the right solutions for the outbreak, the government welcomed Chinese masks and ridiculed them. Poland in the international arena - Prime Minister and the most important people at the airport, before the plane with masks, which turned out to be defective. Like millions of facials in Europe. That wasn't necessary. When the government held a multi-week debate on how to extend the power of the current president, when the Territorial Defence Forces were getting a discount on Orlena, someone forgot doctors and nurses, and most of them were affected in this pandemic. [[Applause]] No one's forgotten. Minister! It's not about that. I understand perfectly what it means to be presumed innocent. But we all in this room understand what conflict of interest means... Gawłowski in court. ...and we know how much Poles need today to keep power as clean as a whistle. There it is. And it's not about you explaining anything to us. It is not about your Members yelling at me now. It's not to make false accusations. The idea is to answer every question to every citizen and finally to say something seriously in Poland. You can scream, you can take my voice, but at the end you have to talk to the Poles, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] I'd like you to address the facts. So power, Prime Minister, must be pure as tears, and people must be sure that no one earns dishonestly in difficult times. Prime Minister, do you know how much it means to make 4 million in one day? You ever run a business? Do you know what it means to make $4 million clean in one day? The Poles hear that. But what are you insinuating? Why are you lying and misleading again? How embarrassing are you? I'd like you to comment on the facts and the puffs. No, I'm not insinuating anything, I'm asking questions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You guys have your ears closed today. Your closed ears are like those closed ears in the Bible. They are a symbol of corruption, a symbol of sin, a symbol of self-control. Liar. Are you referring to the facts? I'd like you to take the facts into account. One day you will know that when we asked these questions, we asked questions in business so that everyone could go to the streets of Warsaw and every city and look into the eyes of the citizens... Why did you lie on TVN yesterday? You lied. ...no, sir, from the limo, just face to face, look into the eyes of the citizens. One day, you'll find out what you've done to Poland. But now I'm going to say a few words to those who listen to us, because today you're not ready... Yes, of course. To hear this, you can't let me say one sentence. There are reasons why you can't let me say one sentence, although I haven't offended anyone here. Because you're not referring to the facts. There is a picture of Poland in the game today, sir. In the game there is a picture of Poland, what it is to be, whose Poland is to be. Poles, Poles. She's not supposed to be one party, she's not supposed to be TKM. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Affiliates from the Platform. Exactly. And now these two words to the Poles. Don't worry about what's going on here, folks, dear citizens. It will be normal, there will be another Poland. Something's already vibrating, this fire of social rebellion is already smashing. The Platform will win again and 50 billion will die. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u308	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Poland it is not forbidden to be a millionaire and to become a minister at the same time. On the other hand, it is forbidden to use a minister's position to become a millionaire. And that is how Minister Szumowski is perceived today. Evidence, evidence. We are talking about PLN 300 million. This is the evidence. So many family business of the Szumowskis... Ha, ha, ha! ...inducted from the National Centre for Research and Development in grants, which he received, among others. A gentleman who is the minister's brother. Evidence on Mr. Szumowski. Today, the Minister of Health, and before that, science, the supervisor of the NCBiR. That's nerve. The nerve that's in the hands of the Law and Justice. Mr. President, the facts are... And the Minister got himself 300 million. And that's the facts. As if that weren't enough, the Minister was doing other business on the side. So there were ski instructor masks... Christopher, please don't lie to me. ...the scallops from the stall on the Gubałówka. Did you forget about that? There were also ventilators from an illegal arms dealer. Useless junk that couldn't be used, which cost hundreds of thousands of zlotys. Don't be silly. I wonder if the Minister does that shopping, too, when he buys vegetables. Why would you lie like that? Does he go to the hardware store? Or is he buying bread from a volcano? Maybe it's in PiS that's normal? Why are you lying to me like that? Mr. Szumowski was supposed to be different. For a while, even everyone thought he was different. I believed it, too. I was convinced that the Minister of PiS would work, he wouldn't be interested in power, he wouldn't be interested in money. I was convinced that at night, when these bags were growing under my eyes, it was working against everything that was causing the epidemic. However, it turned out that these bags under the Minister's eyes were because they were bags filled with money. Ooh... It began to come out quickly, how much Mr. Szumowski's work was really worth. [[Applause]] You forced nurses to work, and you know very well which ones should be fired at that time, the ones that had to be handled by dozens of residents in the DPS... It's just so embarrassing... ...forced to work nurses who were pregnant who were with young children. The lack of your organizational criteria, the lack of competence - this is yours, the PiS countries, the embarrassment. You didn't provide adequate equipment, masks, suits, gloves to hospitals, Minister. Hospital masks had to be sewn by nurses themselves or helped by citizens and citizens. You're kidding. We've had several times more diseases among medical personnel than in the Union, and you know it. You've been shutting down entire troops. You put people who work there in danger and who heal there. When the medics adapted the masks to dive in a cottage way or made paper towels for themselves, the Material Reserve Agency sold over 60,000. professional masks at low prices. [[Applause]] It can't be forgotten. That was the situation, and that is the truth. This is your inability. And when the epidemic was coming, the Levite spoke in January from that speaker. We asked Minister Szumowski: Please take an interest in this. What did he say? You're panicking. From this speaker, Minister. And who was right, Minister? Not you. Maybe it's worth apologizing today and hitting your chest, because in January, the Minister said to us, "You're wrong." [[Applause]] But that's not all. In the meantime, they were complete... It's true. ...decisions, shields, no control over the medical device market. The Minister has even received special powers that have authorized him to regulate drugs. What did you do? One such regulation. The rest of the rotation is on fire. This is the truth about your governments. It is also worth recalling what the Minister said at the beginning of the epidemic: you do not have to, citizens, wear masks. And then? You have to. Now you don't have to. Why? Because you should have done business. When there were no customers, you didn't have to wear masks. When the customers found out, you had to wear masks. Everyone found out about this. You know what the truth is. [[Applause]] You're talking nonsense. There's no infection. From the beginning of this term of office, the Left has submitted draft laws aimed at improving health care. More money for equipment, pay for nurses, more places at universities to educate doctors. Prescription drugs for 5 zlotys. At least 7% GDP for health. What's PiS doing with it? Sure thing, it's all in the trash. I know you're tired of this. No help for nurses, doctors and paramedics. Hospitals left to themselves and patients sentenced to death. That's what reality looks like today. Minister Szumowski's mask has fallen, and it's for good. Instead of helping, it's better to make money. The Left will vote in favour of the cancellation of the Minister. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u310	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, a club of the Polish People's Party. I don't think there's anything left for PSL.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At first, I would like to ask for respect for Mrs Barbara Nowacka. [[Applause]] Bravo! Thank you. With Mrs Barbara Nowacka, we have very different views on many matters, but the way you behaved towards this Member is unworthy. And decency is always worth it. [[Applause]] How's she doing? Ladies and gentlemen! Trust is a sacred thing for many people, the most important thing in the world. Trust, especially to a doctor, is extremely important. That's why I was extremely surprised when I read on the Internet that people wrote requests for medical advice to Dr. House, who is an actor. Yes, I am thinking of you right now, Minister Szumowski. You had a promising start, you could have been a Polish Dr. House during this epidemic... There it is. ...but unfortunately you failed and wasted that opportunity. Today, such a letter of advice to you can at least write a fan of the show "Hospital on peripetia." Forest Mountain Hospital. But why did this happen to your trust? The first thing is to minimize the problem. At the beginning of your speech about the masks, whether they're needed or not. It is also a question of comparing flu to Coronavirus, as well as of amending the Health Care Act. There was a great opportunity to strengthen this service when we knew, especially at the end, that this virus could touch us. You didn't do it. Later, the lack of preparation for the epidemic, even though you were still on 28 February in the Polish Television, said that we were prepared that the tests were purchased, that material reserves were running, that you created instructions that were sent by the NFZ to every hospital. And it was. When the coronavirus came in, chaos appeared in all the facilities. The directors were nervously looking for ventilators, and personal protective equipment most often reached the hospital through associations and people of good will. But it's not Italy, it's Poland. But where? This is Poland. You've made a lot of bad strategic decisions. I'm thinking of setting up one-name hospitals in Podlasie or in Małopolska. Instead of a one-name hospital in Podlasie to make one of several hospitals in Bialystok, the state blocked the only hospital in Łomża. Same thing about Małopolska. You had many hospitals in Krakow to choose from. You chose the most important, strongest one in Krakow, blocking its very great possibilities. And basic error: failure. You had no idea how to use the private health sector, pharmacists and their pharmacy during the pandemic. Those were strategic mistakes, but what I think affected people most is inconsistencies. The masks aren't there? They're unnecessary. Are the masks here? Everyone has to wear them, they have to wear them everywhere. Elections? No. In normal mode, they'll only be safe in two years, preferably after invention of the vaccine. But you didn't want to, you didn't want to. The most painful thing about this attitude is that Minister Szumowski, above his vast medical knowledge, put those orders which he receives from Nowogrodzka above his profession. Then it all started spinning around politics. Even the fans at the extra-class games are going to let you in a week before the election, so everyone says it's great, it's great. You've been affected by a conflict of interest, which has been discussed here the most. If this works out, and I think they should examine these institutions, it will be a great problem not only for you, but also for your camp. However, I have learned another lesson from this. In fact, you're wasting your time as Minister of Health. You should become Minister of Business and replace Mrs. Emilewicz as Deputy Prime Minister, if that proves true... Well, one careful one. ...because you know business better. I believe that we should approach this matter fairly, with all due respect, to the work of Minister Szumowski. On the other hand, it is about the whole operation of the health system, about decisions that have not been made on an ongoing basis, for example on the hospital in Zgorzelec, which has long been called upon by Mr Stanisław Żuk. It's about a 58 million-dollar beautiful resort that's untapped. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Many cases have not been dealt with by the Minister, which is why the Coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 will vote in favour of the cancellation of the Minister. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u312	Mr Robert Winnicki, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was hoping that the submission of an application for a vote of distrust to the Minister of Health during the epidemic and the biggest economic crisis experienced by Poland and the world for years would be an opportunity for a substantive debate mainly on medical issues, and not a beating, Mrs, Mr Pierce, party foam. This is embarrassing. It's about what you've done with this proposal and the discussion of this epidemic itself. Of course, it is appropriate to express your deep embarrassment, ladies and gentlemen. When it comes to the arrogance shown in this Chamber, unfortunately, you are like the Civic Platform at the end of its rule. That's the truth. You're like them. Now, let's get to the point. Minister, in the debate on how Poland copes with the epidemic and the whole issue, the most lacking is the really serious medical reflection. We talk a lot about the economy, sure, because the economy is falling apart. We talk a lot about administrative issues, bureaucratic tightenings, but where is there room for serious and free medical discussion on this issue? On this phenomenon, for example, that in our part of Europe, including the Federal Republic of Germany, mortality is significantly lower than in other parts of Europe or the world. What's it related to? What major clinical trials have been conducted? How was the policy of the Ministry of Health and the whole state adapted to this? It doesn't seem to have been done. We have blindly imitated the guidelines that have been compromised many times by the WHO, especially during this pandemic. Today, the United States withdraws from the WHO and stops funding it. Krzysztof Bosak, the Confederate candidate for President, also calls for the cessation of its funding. I have a lot of medical questions here. I'm not going to quote them because there's no time, I'm going to hand them over to the minister right now. These are questions raised by Prof. Dr. Hab. Mr Richard Rutkowski from the Medical University of Bialystok, who was one of the founders of the Centre Agreement in Bialystok in 1990. Today he headed the support committee of Krzysztof Bosak in Bialystok. Those are questions. Medical debate - that's what we expect... We do not expect this from them, but we would expect you to have a debate and a medical position. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u314	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u315	Let's reminisce for a second. [[Member replays the recording]] In Italy, there is a shortage of masks, and in Poland, they are sold on the Internet as antivirus. Helping? - Whether... but I don't know right now whether it's oral or handy. - Mask, don't be silly. Such masks covering, so white. - They don't help, they don't help, they don't protect against the virus, they don't protect against the disease, so... - They're really not helping? - They're really not helping. - Then why do people wear them? - I don't know. You're about to tell the Minister, Mr. Szumowski, about the obligation to cover his face. But they give you money. That's what happened. The position on the masks has changed a few more times. Then they were mandatory, now they're not mandatory again, although we have more patients than when they started to be mandatory. As we remember, then we canceled from day to day, but the next day we found that we were sending flights after those who were abroad, only operated by the only legitimate state carrier. Then we close the woods, then when there are more sick, we open the woods, etc. Now we are declaring triumph over the epidemic, while the epidemic is not over at all. We have a completely flat disease curve. The high level of disease continues to persist, so I don't know why this tromtadration, why the conclusion that we've been keeping ourselves from the epidemic. For now, we've just extended it a little bit in time. I give the floor to the next person. [[Applause]] Already?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u316	Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u317	A ghost in a nation doesn't die. What is the best way to deal with a pandemic? - asks the people of Warsaw. And he answers: the Szumowskis. [[Applause]] It cheers you up and that's the light in the tunnel. I hope that you will move on to serious actions when you start collecting signatures under the request for a Court of State for the entire collective, which has brought about an unprecedented socio-economic disaster on Poland. I'm sure we'll sign off on that. We do not subscribe to this motion for mistrust, but we will vote in favour of the cancellation of Minister Szumowski. You closed the churches, you didn't let the priests die, you didn't let the loved ones. [[♪ The bell ♪]] to the obstetrically ill. This is a crime. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u318	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Please take the floor of the Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u319	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Congratulations, I didn't know there were so many medical experts in this room who could judge decisions when and how. But ad rem. We can all really be afraid of what's going to happen if this virus shows up. It may turn out that there will soon be a shortage of hospital facilities, and this is the Italian way that we respect - it is Mr Boris Budka on 23 March. When you were scared, we worked. When we should all focus on the fight against an epidemic that has not actually ended, here I agree with you, on defending jobs, Polish entrepreneurs, we are dealing with the analysis of false reports, slanders and slanders. In order to assess this proposal, it is enough to look at the footnotes and if one of the ladies and gentlemen has not read it, I will quote it. There are mostly favourite titles of the country that wrote it: Gazeta Wyborcza, Newsweek, OKO. press, TVN24. I also found threads from the Centipede portal. Congratulations. The quality of this conclusion is questionable because I don't think you and your well-liked patron took a look at it. [[Applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Or did he throw it and throw it away? Or did he quit? But it's not worth talking about fake news right now, because the vote of distrust is the time for facts, not those seen by the curved mirror of the hat and your political upheaval, but those that happened in reality, the facts that we've faced as a government and as a society. And after three months, you go out on the stand and give good advice. Congratulations. Usually after these 3 months they're a pound of quills worth. Tell me about your brother. What was the reality? Italy. The first month of the 100th patient - 60,000. Infirmity, 5.5,000. people died. Now - 234,000. And 33,000. Deaths. Brother. Spain. First month - 90,000. sick and 8,000. Deaths. Now, $240,000. infections and 27,000. Deaths. Wife and brother. Great Britain. Sixty-five thousand. infections in the first month and 10,000. Dead. Three minutes. U.S.A. 168,000, 4,000. Deaths. And in Poland? For a month, 8,7,000. infections and 350 people died. Wife and brother. And that's the facts. We did not save the health of Poles, and even though Mr Boris Budka was afraid that there would be no hospital space, this did not happen. The NFZ will receive PLN 0.5 billion. The fear of the Italian way failed, so who does Mrs Lubnauer set an example for us? Albania and Montenegro. I'll leave it to you without comment. Would you prefer a better model: Swedish, Belgian or Spanish? Czech Republic, Slovakia. The Belgian geriatric society directive says not to cure older people. What, though, are doctors in Spain to guide? The social value of a person - whether he can live or not. Like fascists. What are the sources of the other facts that you empathize with, that is, testing? Wikipedia. I remind you: in Poland we have 25 thousand. We've run nearly 1 million tests. In the UK, Italy or the Netherlands for 30,000. Infected - 165,000, 170,000. tests. In Sweden - 220 thousand. tests. Dear opposition, compare apples with apples. And millions with millions. But now a few examples of what's going on. Birmingham Airport is transformed into a temporary morgue on 28 March. March 26, a dramatic report: we must act with what we have - says Dr. Alexander Salerno from Essex County Hospital. Doctors in Michigan are complaining about a shortage of medical equipment. On his website, Washington Post writes: in the USA, the medical supply market is in chaos. A horror movie in Madrid. The Spanish admitted that they were no longer able to burn more bodies a day. The nurse got fired, like... But now a few reports from Poland again. First. The hospital administration, where a 40-year-old man died, whose research confirmed the presence of the virus, warns that he does not have the equipment needed to save his life in such cases. Buy-in procedure? Six weeks. Two. There's a dramatic shortage of ventilators at the hospital in Pomerania. Two small patients with pneumonia and confirmed viral infection were transferred on Thursday to two other hospitals. Because of their severe condition, children needed artificial ventilation. Only these two hospitals were able to find free ventilators for them. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Such scenes were in Poland. There were no ventilators for the patients, there weren't enough for the children. These deficiencies were all the more appalling because they were during the outbreak of swine flu in 2009. [[Applause]] Shame! These articles are about you. When you were in charge of Poland, there were no children's ventilators. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, if you're not ashamed of it, you're gonna have to pay for it. You're gonna have to settle up. 13% Busy beds. 6% Busy ventilators. Mr Kierwiński... Don't bother the hero. These ventilators weren't enough for the children under your rule. You're accusing me of making correspondence choices, death envelopes. And who voted in the Senate for the ballot box elections? I think you're Marshal Grodzki. So, now these killer envelopes aren't important? Wife and brother. And the killer letters of President Trzaskowski, the signatures he's collecting now? Why don't you call them deadly letters? [[Applause]] You're talking about a conflict of interest. Give me one fact, one supervisory document in the NCBR. You have nothing because there was nothing, my dears. 200 million. Cylinders. It was, it was. This company received seven grants out of seven from your government when I wasn't in the government, and three out of seven when I got there. Sierpiński, your assistant, Sierpiński, tell me about Sierpiński. But help, ladies and gentlemen, please. Why aren't you talking about the fact that CBA control is about your time at the NCBR? [[Applause]] Your people you put in there? This is CBA control, folks. Mr. Sierpiński. Mr Kierwiński... You're talking about 100,000. The facials, right? You're saying... Speaking of the Medical Research Agency, the Member unfortunately lied from this speaker because this company didn't get any gold from ABM. She didn't get any cash. I didn't say, Minister, don't accuse me. Mr Szczerba is interfering with the proceedings. Mr President, I am warning you. You're gonna cry that you're being punished, and you're gonna write appeals. You're talking about 100,000. The masks and the fact that I didn't settle. It is worth reading reports other than your speeches. All these secret purchases are on the Ministry of Health's website. I can tell you where. About your controls. Then your so-called. Two executioners wouldn't have to go around Warsaw. And oscypki, too? You're talking about irregularities in shopping. It seems that you should know tax law, because VAT carousels were spinning fantastic, it was all well arranged, but you didn't realize that the Ministry of Finance gave a positive recommendation for all the activities that were undertaken at the Ministry of Health. Jesus. It's worth looking for facts. Your company. You have also overlooked that the European Commission has now destroyed 1.5 million masks. You're putting up a vote of distrust. For the European Commission, I understand, too? [[Applause]] Bravo! I understand you're no longer trusting the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid and the medical chambers because they've all been tricked on masks. Yes? [[Applause]] Oh, Jesus. What about the cavities? You have smiles after the hat campaign on the streets of Warsaw, where posters were hung, which offended not only me and my family, because of this, of course, you can see, but also religious feelings of Poles. And who's the odd guess that owns these carriers? Owner of the Gazeta Wyborcza. Who's the first person to describe this case? Gazet Wyborcza. Coincidence? But that's not what we're talking about here. Perhaps it strengthened your candidate. High Izbo! This is not a vote for the Minister of Health or against him. This is a vote for facts or against them. This is a vote in favour of the policies of heith, falsehood and speech of hatred or against them. [[Applause]] Finally, I will remind you of the words of the Prime Minister of the Republic: The government wants to avoid... There won't be enough time to discuss the property you've signed up for your wife. What about the property you put on your wife? It's a simple question. Mr President, I am warning you. You don't have a voice now. Can I read the Prime Minister's words? Can I read it? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You don't have a voice right now. Don't you understand what I'm saying? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ask Mr Grad. The government wants to avoid a situation where every emerging disease will be responsible to the state administration, because nowhere in the world is it fit enough to prevent the disease. But rewrite... The nerves are letting go. Secondly, it would lead to a spiral of such expenses that there would not be enough money for treatment. That's what the Prime Minister of the Republic said. What's that? During the swine flu in November - Prime Minister Donald Tusk. [[Applause]] Oh! And today, the High Chamber will have the opportunity to decide whether we will move forward, whether we will return to that Poland, where warm water in the tap was more important than respirators for children. Thank you. Nothing on the estate? Some Members get up, give them a round of applause.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u320	The discussion is closed. We'll be voting in a few minutes. Mr. Marshal, it can't be that you're insulting someone, and then they can't relate to it. Step out of the podium, please. The Prime Minister wants to speak. I'm so sorry, I didn't have that written down. [[Game in the O.R.]] But the discussion is closed... Time's up. Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, of course. You're welcome. The discussion is closed. You're welcome, Prime Minister. I'm sorry, Prime Minister, I didn't have that written down. This is the government prime minister's style?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u321	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, you're in trouble with the facts. Then why won't you let them be corrected? Are you scared? And this is something that I very clearly understood after reading this conclusion, which is full of misrepresentations, manipulations and lies. Because the most important thing -- which I'm sure you find difficult to understand, and that's because for objective reasons you weren't there at the time -- is that the actions were actually being taken at the time, you can say, in war mode. Do you know why in war mode? Because it was about people's lives. We're talking about reassigning property to your wife, Prime Minister. Mr Grabiec, I am warning you one last time. When it comes to people's lives, action is taken... On the basis of the article. Point (c) of the first subparagraph is replaced by the following: 3 I call you to order. ...you can say, in war mode. And in this way, decisions are made that are sometimes burdened with error. The purchase decisions are made in minutes: Listen, there is a plane in China to transport to Polish masks, dolbic. And that's how you buy from crooks. That's how you buy from crooks. And in this way, indeed as soon as possible, the goods were purchased by many European countries and tried by the United States. Do you remember those headlines from the newspapers, including the portals that favor you, and even the services of your various TVs from March? What was missing back then? Everything was missing. Couldn't you have handled it before? Did you have to buy it from a skier? And then we made decisions that were decisions in a huge area of uncertainty, decisions made and burdened with a huge uncertainty factor. And the fact that today you have the audacity to pull out those decisions when we were dealing with this situation: I'm being honest with you. Honestly? At the beginning of March or at the beginning of April we knew perfectly that the price of the aprons, trimmings or masks in normal times was four times lower, five times lower, three times lower, sometimes ten times lower. Five times higher. The lowest was from a skier. And we were scratching our heads, wondering what to do... And you bought it from a skier. ...because there was one big scream, from all the hospitals, the care and care facilities, the DPSs, from all the places we treated people with Coronavirus. And you are completely ignoring these facts, as if we were in a new reality today, as if there were no what was at all, there was not what the whole world experienced in March. And in March, the whole world experienced a giant pandemic that no one was prepared for. And so when you talk about masks, masks, think about who this is. Because this is your big deal. At some point, a gentleman came to a patron, and there was a journalist sitting about whom the other gentleman did not seem to be convinced. You know what? I've got one more proposition for you, an extra measure like that, go ahead. If, in some case, High Izbo, there is a counsel of Giertych, then I suspect that this is simply a windy matter being raised in order to make a political upheaval. [[Applause]] Bravo! These masks weren't from Giertych. And that is why I think that in the subject of masks it is enough to explain which Poles will understand perfectly. They understand perfectly, perfectly. Poles understand perfectly well that we tried to buy wherever we could. In fact, in most countries of the world, they bought in China and a horse with a row of who could verify exactly whether the certificates were genuinely authentic. The Netherlands, Germany, Spain, France, Sweden, Denmark, as well as the Great Orchestra of Christmas Aid and several other organizations in Poland were deceived. The Ministry of Health was deceived, and at that point in time, when it was concluded at the Ministry, it was requested to return the money. This is a mechanism that is known from all other European countries. But you know what, ladies and gentlemen? High Izbo, there is no one attacking the health ministers, even though those health ministers have de facto led, by lack of appropriate action at the right time, to a hecatomba, to a big explosion, to an increase in deaths. They led to such a situation that not only people died alone in Belgium or in the Netherlands, but also people were deprived of the possibility of recovery (the Bell) because there was no equipment at that time and a triage methodology was used. And now for the company, because you're talking about a company called OncoArendi, which received grants. The number of these grants in the times of the Platform and PSL was already mentioned by Minister Szumowski, other people spoke. It was seven grants. Then four rejections in the days of the PiS government. That's not true. I don't know what that is. I think it's autodonos. That's self-incrimination. Ha, ha, ha! Are you suggesting that the procedures in the NCBR were incorrect at the time of the PO-PSL rule? You were there. Is this the way to verify all the grants that were then granted? And do you know, ladies and gentlemen, how many grants are granted anyway? We know how much is allocated to the Szumowskis. Because we are talking about grants for one of the three leading Polish research companies in this area, in the field of medicine. And as a digression, I will quote Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. She once said very nicely that we do not want, we should not want to export from Poland educated people, scientists in various technologies. We should export these technologies. I agree with the Prime Minister and that is why Mr Marcin Szumowski returned from the United States. There he taught, there he could have made a career, there he could have lived peacefully, probably very prosperously. He was on a scholarship... He decided to return to Poland and build Polish property here, [[Applause]] here to build Polish patents. Polish innovation. Many of these patents have been filed and some of them have been approved. What did they invent? What are the effects? So, instead of being very respectful towards people who want Poland to grow as a modern country, you throw defilements. You cast defilements on people who are not guilty of anything, on the contrary, who contributed very much to it, and in particular Minister Szumowski, that today Poland is in a completely different shape, the moment when it comes to pandemic, I spoke about it at noon, than many other countries, than most other European countries. You're talking about a network of connections. Why can't I correct it? High Izbo! The only network that Minister Łukasz Szumowski has successfully built is a network of single-name hospitals, [[Applause]] thanks to which he saved the lives and health of tens of thousands, perhaps even hundreds of thousands of Poles. You can't see what would have happened if you had, but you just have to look at what's going on in Belgium, what's going on in Sweden, what's going on in Britain or France. Put those measures on Poland. Compare this to Ukraine, Lithuania, Latvia, Slovakia. People can see it. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced that the Minister will be judged by history as one of the best health ministers in Europe at this time, if not the best. [[Applause]] I'm sure of it. I'm also convinced that history will properly assess your defilements, the smugness that you can throw in the face of innocent people... History will judge you. ...only for the sake of pure political benefits, just because you figured it out, you know that for a long time... That you were stealing. ...that the contempt industry built by you can be an effective method when it's reinforced by your media, by the enormous power of destruction of your media. I think something's wrong. That is why we turn directly to Poles, we turn over our heads, above your various slanderous voices that appear. And the hooligan is the language of love. Ladies and gentlemen! Look at the facts, look at the data. Number of NCBR grants awarded in total over the last few years - 6200 with a hook. Total number of grants awarded to entrepreneurs - 12 thousand. In four or five years. We are talking here about several grants granted to a research company. We want research companies to receive grants. Especially this one. The minister's company. That is the economic growth of Western countries, faster in old times, now slower, but based on high added value. It belonged to me. It's just the right thing to do. It's due, it's due. You pretend you don't understand it, or maybe you don't understand it, but that's why we're turning to the Poles to reject your lies, reject your slanders, those defiances you throw on innocent people. We're not gonna let them in. We will not be yelled at by your fellow Members, your media, your various clans. We are sure that we are on the side of the truth, and we are trying to do everything for the good of Poles. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Why the debate is at 3 p.m. 22? One more thing about personal culture, because that was raised a few dozen minutes ago. Why don't you apologize? Please apologize. In the savoir-vivre manuals it is very well stated that you should stand in front of a woman when a woman also stands ahead, and in this case the situation looked different. And to defend it... I think it'll be very good for everyone to read, too, that you're trying to de facto artificially impose the situation... That's embarrassing. ...to draw attention to the situation that took place here and had nothing to do with the lack of culture. This is an outrage. Calling someone a riffraff isn't a lack of culture? And remember how you behaved during my speech, how many times you screamed, tried to interrupt in an uncultural way, tried to disrupt your reasoning. Unfortunately, I must say that you behaved very unculturally at the time. Who screamed rudely? And first of all, I appeal to this part of the room: try to keep your blood cool, your nerves cold... You're gonna tell the president. Keep your hands clean. ...because I am convinced that the time is coming very good for Poland. The time is coming when President Andrzej Duda... Rafał Trzaskowski, good time for Poland! ...for once again a good time for Poland... Rafał Trzaskowski! ...when President Andrzej Duda wins his second term and we continue our reforms in all areas that require this reform. I'm counting on the Poles... You don't believe that yourself. ...they will understand very well your manipulations, your lies, your slanders, also, and perhaps above all, with regard to Minister Szumowski. Oh, my God. Therefore, I ask the High House to reject this completely unauthorized motion for a vote of distrust. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u322	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the vote in a moment. What do you mean, how much? How long is this? Can we have a break, please? [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] Two minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 23 min 48 hours 23 min 52]] I'm reopening the session. We will now proceed with the quorum because we still have six votes left. I ask all Members to press any button to confirm the quorum. 435 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. The reports shall be in prints 409 and 411, respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Flat-rate Income Tax Act on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws (Prints Nos 407 and 411). I would like to ask Mrs Eve Szymanska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u323	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Personal Income Tax Act, the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws on printing No 407. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 4 June 2020 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. Today, the Committee on Public Finance has examined the Senate resolution, which contains five amendments. The Commission calls for the High Sejm to accept Amendments 1, 3 and 5, except that amendments 3 and 5 should be voted together and amendments 2 and 4 rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u324	Thank you, Member. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. In the first amendment to Article. 15cb of the Corporate Income Tax Act, the Senate proposes in paragraph 15cb. 10 give a different wording to the first sentence. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 1st amendment will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. In - 4, 443 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 4 The Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals is proposed by the Senate in paragraph 1. Point 1 (1) is replaced by the words "except for the activities referred to in points 2 and 3.'. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 232 for, 217 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. The 12th Senate Law proposes in paragraph 12. 1 after the words 'apply' add the words 'with power'. Amendment 5 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 3 and 5 will want to raise their hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 for, 449 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In the 4th amendment to the article. 13 The Senate proposes to add the words "within the limits laid down in Article 13" after being amended. 117ba § 5 Act as amended by Art. 4, in its current version. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 4th amendment will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 235 - for, 217 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on personal income tax, the Act on corporate income tax, the Act on flat-rate income tax on certain income generated by individuals and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Senate Resolution on the Law amending the Public Roads Act and some other laws (Prints Nos 408 and 409). I would like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u325	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Committee on Infrastructure rejected the Senate's proposal and recommends rejecting the Senate amendment to amend the Public Roads Act. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Bravado performance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-06-04-sejm-12-4.u326	Thank you, sir. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution rejecting the law by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the resolution of the Senate rejecting the bill, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 6 May 2020 amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act of 6 May 2020 amending the Law on public roads and certain other laws would like to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 235 - for, against - 212, 2 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Public Roads and some other laws. We return to the consideration of item 22 of the agenda: Request for a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Health Łukasz Szumowski. Let me remind you that according to the article. Point (c) of paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland Sejm expresses the vote of distrust by a majority of the statutory number of Members. The Commission has taken a negative view of the proposal. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to express a vote of distrust towards the Minister of Health, Łukasz Szumowski, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. For-- 213, against-- 237, no one's holding back. The Sejm rejected the request to express a vote of distrust to health minister Łukasz Szumowski in view of the failure to obtain the required majority of votes. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] Flowers! Distance! Distance! And you lost again. See you on June 28th. On this we have exhausted the agenda of the 12th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. This concludes the 12th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. Information on the date and agenda of the 13th session of the Sejm will be served to the ladies and gentlemen of the House. At the same time, I would like to remind you that immediately after the sitting with me in my office, there will be a meeting of the Sejm Bureau, and a few minutes later, 10 minutes later - the Senior Convention. We're adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 0 min 22]]
