ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u1	I open the 14th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Rafał Ambrozik and Senator Jerzy Wcisła as the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers in the sitting room will be led by Senator Rafał Ambrozik, whom I ask you to take the seat of, and in room 217, the list of speakers will be led by Senator Jerzy Wcisła. Dear Senators! As a result of the epidemic, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, in a remote manner. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. Let me remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Rafał Ambrozik and in Senator Jerzy Wcisła. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please also do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. I ask: do all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? Your Senators taking part in the meeting in a remote manner, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras in them are switched on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and voices in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us by phone at the number given to you in advance. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the vote, which merely aims to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. Webex polling causes a message to appear. To take part in the vote, we click "OK." Then press the "Transmit" button twice, after voting in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. Please proceed to the vote. Please report the results. 76 senators voted and so many are currently attending the sitting. [[Voting No 1]] Those who have not logged in or have not made it to the plenary room, please complete this as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 2 July 2020, Senator Franciszek Sobieski, Senator and Member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on National Economy died. On 30 July 2020, Edmund Bilicki, Senator of the First term, died, member of the Committee on National Economy, Committee on Culture, Media, Science and Education, Committee on Environmental Protection, Committee on Immigration and Poles abroad. On 10 August 2020, Mr Madej, Senator I, II and III of the term of office, Member of the Sejm of the 3rd term of office, Chairman of the Committee on Environmental Protection, Member of the Committee on Culture and Media, Science and National Education, of the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Economic Legislation, and of the Constitutional Commission of the National Assembly died. I ask the gathered to rise and celebrate a minute of silence in the memory of the dead senators. [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask for another vote. I would like us to celebrate a minute of silence also of Warsaw insurgents, recently it was an anniversary.]] I agree with the senator's request. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give them eternal rest, Lord.]] [[They answer, "Let eternal light shine upon them."]] [[Let them rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I inform you that the Sejm adopted at its 14th meeting on 15 and 16 July 2020: all amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on Chemical Substances and their mixtures and some other laws; all amendments of the Senate to the Act on type-approval systems of the European Union and the Market Surveillance of Combustion Engines intended for mobile machinery not moving on the roads; all amendments of the Senate to the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance and some other laws; all amendments of the Senate to the Act on Public Aid for Rescue or Restructuring of Entrepreneurs; part of the Senate's amendments to the Act on Polish Tourist Bone; part of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Act on Rules of Conduct for Development Policy and some other laws; part of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending the Act on Competitions and Dental Doctors and some other laws. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 11th, 12th and 13th Senate meetings in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to them, they will be adopted at the next meeting. High Senate, I inform you that on 18 June 2020, the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration sent information to the Senate for 2019 on the activities of the Police, the Office of Internal Surveillance and the State Security Service. This document is contained in print No 153. On 29 June 2020, I sent the information to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of this document and informed me of it. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The project provided to you included a point: information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2019, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. Since the Committee on Senior Affairs and Social Affairs and the Committee on Education and Sports have not been informed of this information, this item has not been included in the draft agenda for approval. It will probably be considered at the next meeting. I propose that items 2 to 5, 7 and 9 to 13 of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose a change in the order of consideration of the fifth point, i.e. a law on special arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, amending the Prison Service Act and certain other laws, and considering it as point 16. This was agreed with the head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposal. Mr. and Mrs. Senators, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: information from the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on the actions and detentions carried out by the Police during protests in Warsaw on 7 and 8 August this year. and consider it as item 18 of the agenda; second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Warsaw Battle of 1920 and its forgotten heroes and consider it as item 19 of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will consider that the High Chamber has accepted the proposals. Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u2	Mr. Marshal, I object to the first point of your proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u3	I see. This is a point on the information of the Head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the face of the opposition, we are voting on my proposal to complete the agenda for the item: MSWiA information on the actions and detentions made by the police during the protests in Warsaw on 7 and 8 August. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 87 senators voted, 44 were in favour, 41 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] The point has been entered. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 14th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that immediately after the examination of the first point, i.e. The second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Second Silesian Uprising will be held. Tomorrow, we will begin the session at 10.00 a.m. from the examination of the point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw in 1920 and its forgotten heroes. The vote on this item will take place immediately after its consideration. Tomorrow, too, the Senate will proceed with the examination of points: the law on special arrangements for support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, the amendment of the Prison Service Act and some other laws; the second reading of the draft law on amending the Police Act and certain other laws; the information of the Minister of Internal Affairs and Administration on actions and detentions carried out by the Police during protests in Warsaw on 7 and 8 August this year. The third day of the meeting will begin at 10 a.m. from the examination of the Ombudsman's information. I would also like to inform you that when the Legislative Commission prepares its reports on draft resolutions on the 40th anniversary of the August Agreements and the resolution on the situation in Belarus, the agenda may be supplemented by a second reading of these projects. Furthermore, following the preparation of the committee's proposals for the election of the President of the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs and changes in the composition of the Senate committees, the agenda may be supplemented by these items. I would like to inform you that the votes on some of the laws under consideration may be held on the second day of the sitting and that the remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. This has to do with the forthcoming session of the Sejm, which will be convened on Friday. We begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Second Silesian Uprising. I would like to welcome the director of the Polish Silesian Museum, Janina Ojdana... [[Applause]] ...and the director of the Silesian Institute, Mr Bartosz Kuwik. [[Applause]] I would like to remind you that the draft resolution was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 141 and the report in print No 141 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Halina Poora, to present the committee's report on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the committee, please accept this proposal. The Commission held its first reading on 30 July. After several amendments were tabled, a single text was created that you received. As I say, on behalf of the committee and the group of senators who have submitted this proposal, I ask the High House to accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee, who is also the representative of the project applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? If not, I'm opening the discussion. Senator Aleksander Swed is speaking. You're welcome. Is Senator Swede available? [[Voice from the room: To the protocol...]] Oh, the senator will make his speech in writing. I therefore inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted and the discussion is closed. For the record, the senator has made his speech to the record. I'm talking about Senator Swede. The discussion is closed. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Second Silesian Uprising. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote... Unfortunately, one Senator from the remote didn't have time to vote and we have to wait a while. 87 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of the Second Silesian Uprising. I ask the director of the Opolskie Silesia Museum, Mrs Joanna Ojdana, and the director of the Silesian Institute, Mr Bartosz Kuwik, to approach the presidential table. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[Applause]] We proceed with the second agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19. The text of the Act is contained in print 169 and the report of the Commission In print No 169 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Ewa Matecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u6	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I present the report of the Health Committee in print No 169 A on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 24 July 2020 amending certain laws in order to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 28 July 2020. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 10 August 2020, the committee asks: The High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution with amendments tabled by the committee. High Izbo, the Act amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in connection with and after the outbreak of COVID-19, adopted by the Sejm on 24 July, considered by the Senate Health Commission on 10 August, is a government project. On behalf of the government, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Janusz Cieszyński. The aim of the Act is, according to the author's assurance, to introduce further health protection instruments to ensure the smooth and efficient operation of this system, including the effective fight against COVID-19. This law amends 23 laws, including 6 laws adopted by the High House in 2020. As Minister Cieszyński said, the scope of the bill is very broad, the objective is in line with the title. The Act modifies existing acts and does not introduce any new ones. The most important regulations in this law are among others. Computerisation of health services, introduction of new tools related to the provision of medical services, changes in specialised training for doctors, introduction of an electronic system of drug imports, changes in administrative procedures on medical services obtained abroad, and among others. to give new competences to certain medical professionals. These changes, High Izbo, were positively assessed by the Health Commission during the discussion. However, the most attention during the discussion was given to those provisions which, during the legislative work in the Sejm, significantly broadened the matter of the law, and even remained unrelated to the subject matter and purpose of the law, making this law unconstitutional in this regard, as confirmed in its opinion by the legislator present at the meeting of the Health Committee. These non-constitutional changes could be distinguished by structural and organisational changes in the National Health Fund. These are changes that relate to the transformation of the existing healthcare system. Another such change is the change in the definition of a new date for the entry into force of the Law of 14 February 2020. It's the so-called. sugar bill. I will remind the High House that the legislative process has not yet been completed in the case of this law and therefore cannot be amended. Further amendments considered to be non-constitutional are changes made to the system of reimbursement of medicines. There are also two very important changes in this law. It's about art. 22, i.e. an amendment introducing a mechanism allowing the entity to obtain compensation for the costs incurred in preparing for the non-president correspondence elections held on 10 May, should read the wording of the article. 22. Let me remind you that the President of the Council of Ministers was authorized to issue such orders in an anti-crisis shield of 2 March. And now, according to the article. 22, proposed in this Act, Poczta Polska, who was responsible for conducting the presidential elections in correspondence, may ask the head of the National Election Office for reimbursement of the costs incurred. The National Election Office (NPO) will remind you of the amount of more than PLN 500 million allocated to the elections. With this art. 22 specifically states that the necessary element in the implementation of the reimbursement of expenses will, of course, be the conclusion of a contract with the National Election Office and the opinion of the President of the Office for Electronic Communications and the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland. However, it was not indicated what would result in a possible negative opinion of these authorities. Articles introducing a similar compensation mechanism are Article. 43, 44, 45 and 46 of this law. This mechanism may be applied to entities which have carried out the order of the President of the Council of Ministers to purchase and distribute medicinal products, medical devices, security measures, etc. Those entities may request reimbursement of the total costs of the execution of this instruction, but there is no indication of the amount of those costs and in this case there is no need for the opinion of the authorities which were in Article. 22, i.e. President of the Office of Electronic Communications and Public Prosecutors of the Republic of Poland. During the discussion in conjunction with the article. 43 and Article 43 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 22 The question was asked, specifically, which entities are in such a situation that they have carried out the order of the President of the Council of Ministers and are waiting for reimbursement of the costs incurred. Granted, the Minister answered the question quite laconically, and actually did not answer the question exactly. That's the question I asked. But it is not so difficult for us to link the article. 43 with a specific order from the Prime Minister concerning the import of Antonio masks and equipment from China by KGHM and Lotus, and Article. 22 with Polish Post. During the discussion at the committee meeting on 10 August, a lot of attention was given to the article. 37a criminal code. It was an amendment tabled by the Senators of the Left to remove from the penal code a provision which requires that nurses, paramedics and doctors be punished by prison punishment for unintentional medical error. I will remind the High House that during the procedure of Shield 4, we have removed this change from the records, but it has been re-established in the proceedings of the Sejm. However, during the committee's work, we considered that such an amendment would be an unconstitutional amendment. And in line with the opinion of the lawyers who also shared this view that the amendment goes beyond the scope of this law, we could not accept this amendment. Nevertheless, I would like to inform you that work is about to begin on a legislative initiative to sort this matter out and delete the article. 37a from the Penal Code, which I hope all of you present at... I hope that all the senators share the view that this is an extremely expected and necessary change, a change that meets the expectations of the medical community and not only. The discussion and comments of the senators at the meeting of the Senate Committee on Health have clearly demonstrated that this law does not offer specific support for health protection, does not contain the solutions and guidelines needed in view of the expected further increase in disease, does not define the basic function of health care during this period. It does not solve major health problems, does not improve the financial situation of hospitals, nor does it regulate future health events. It pointed to the extremely difficult financial and staffing situation of many times converted single-name hospitals, for which there are also no proposals in this law. It was also noted that this law does not improve access to medical services in the face of an epidemic. The role and importance of teleporads, which are introduced as possible but only to a limited extent, have been appreciated because therapy is effective only if you are able to contact your doctor personally. The conclusion of the discussion and the work of the committee is clear, it says that it is difficult to reject this law because it contains several important and detailed solutions, but above all it also contains provisions which have nothing to do with health protection. Of course, the opinion of the Senate legislators, which, in the opinion of the Health Committee, was very unfavourable to this law, is important. To say no, it's devastating. Part of the Act is contrary to the Constitution, and very many reservations have also been expressed about the consistency of the provisions contained in the Act with the legal system, there are also legislative reservations and about compliance with the principles of legislative technique, and there are also editorial reservations. This concludes the work of the Health Committee. I ask the High Senate to adopt this bill with amendments made by the Health Commission. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u7	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any questions? Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! Senator! I have two questions. The first is... You talked about the possibilities of compensation for two large Polish companies, Orlen and KGHM, with what was related to deliveries. Have you discussed this? Maybe a few words about it, if you don't mind me asking the senator. Does this bill give you that kind of opportunity? That's one thing. Secondly, were the Minister's declarations that such a thing would happen? This is the first case, the first question. And the other thing is... It's about sugar tax. Did you discuss combining restrictions on the COVID-19 epidemic with sugar tax? How do you see these connections on the committee? Because if there are such connections, it would mean that more taxes should be introduced and then we will reduce the development of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Allow me. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the text of the article. 43. Subjects which, in connection with the anti-COVID-19, have carried out an order from the President of the Council of Ministers to purchase and distribute medicinal products, medical devices, personal protective equipment, hygiene products and raw materials, components, materials and semi-finished products for their manufacture or purchase of goods or services necessary for the purchase of those products, issued: 1. pursuant to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act as amended by Art. 20, as applicable until 17 April 2020, 2. pursuant to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Act as amended by Art. 20 in the version in force after 17 April 2020 the President of the Council of Ministers may ask the Head of the Office of the Council of Ministers for reimbursement of the costs of the full implementation of this order plus the cost recovery rate of the entity's capital. The content of the Article thus recorded. 43 makes it clear that in the past there have been such circumstances that, at the order of the President of the Council of Ministers, the entity has incurred certain costs, and can now apply to the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers for reimbursement of these costs. Of course, it is not advisable that these are the companies that brought masks and other individual supplies from China and that this is KGHM and Lotus. I asked the related question to Minister Cieszynski, who was present at the committee meeting and reported on the draft law. The Minister did not answer me directly, but there is no need to say much to understand that this article is dedicated to those companies that have already carried out such an order, and that it does not have the form to suggest that it is really about meeting the costs that will be borne by the operators at all during and after the outbreak. This is clearly dedicated to those who, at the request of the President of the Council of Ministers, have already done something, and about the fact that such an order was given by the President of the Council of Ministers towards KGHM and Lotos, we were able to read in media relations, where the Prime Minister himself said that he had given such an order and that the task had been carried out. As far as sugar tax is concerned, the problem is that it is a law for which the legislative process has not yet been completed. The Sejm has not yet referred to this law after the Senate's amendments. We have requested that the vacathio legis for this law be postponed to 1 July 2020. This law proposes that amendments be made to the Sugar Act, for which the legislative process on the date of entry into force has not yet been completed, to the amendment to January 2021. As regards this provision, lawyers had very serious reservations. They considered it to be an unconstitutional provision, for it cannot be amended concerning a law that does not really exist because it has not yet entered into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u10	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator Blackbay.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! Senator! One more question about this article that says that companies that have received orders can... Did you discuss at the committee meeting what the word "may" means? What's it gonna depend on? Whether you like someone or not? Any parameters? Well, there are countries where you can assign something to someone, but you don't have to do it if you have any prejudices. What criteria have you discussed in terms of interpretation of the word "maybe"?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u12	Well, that's the problem with art. 43 that there is such a great degree of freedom here. If you want to take care of certain tasks and cover the costs associated with these tasks, it should be made clear that all tasks carried out on behalf of the Prime Minister are financed by... Well, here is the source of funding. This source of funding is the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. This flexibility, which is that these companies can do it, but they don't have to, is actually very curious. It's hard for us to tell what that depends on. This has not been made clear to us when this bill was presented.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u13	Thank you. Senator Władysław Komarnicki will ask questions remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u14	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Am I hearing well? [[Louder, Mr. Senator.]] Good morning. Mr. Marshal, am I audible? [[Go on.]] I have three questions for the Senator of the rapporteur, although in principle the Minister should answer me. I'd like to know if there was a discussion at the committee meeting about... well, that's pretty important to me. Was there any discussion on what further steps will be taken towards the National Health Fund? That's my first question. Second question: does this law indicate that the National Health Fund is unnecessary? That's my second question. When the discussion on the shape of health protection in Poland will begin and in what direction Is this gonna go all the way? Because I didn't read it from that bill. And one last question: when will there be laws that will save our health and our lives? It's about the healers and the COVID patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u15	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u16	Thank you very much. I've remembered two questions, Mr. Senator. When I'm done answering first and third, I'm gonna ask you to ask the second question again. With regard to the National Health Fund, these changes, which are proposed in the provisions of the Act, clearly indicate the centralisation of health services and the dangerous link between the National Health Fund and political decisions. This was clearly stated in the discussion that was held at the Health Committee meeting. We would like to see that the whole process of medical treatment and provision also applies to decisions taken in the National Health Fund. It was not so centralised, it was not so linked to political decisions. Dear Senator, I will answer the third question. This is the main flaw of this bill. In fact, it hardly refers to the future shape of health care, both during and after the COVID epidemic. All these provisions, which are introduced here, the provisions I have been talking about, relate to certain changes in the training process, to the acquisition of specialisations, for example. the introduction of information technology and drug programmes, on which there were also some reservations However, no solid proposal on the real protection of our health has been presented to us here. And question two, sir, because I didn't hear...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u17	Thank you very much for your comprehensive reply, Senator rapporteur. And my second question was connected to the first one. Namely, since the National Health Fund is unnecessary 'Cause that's how I understand it, and maybe it's the right thing to do, as it was said before. When, of course, I am talking about the Ministry of Health, are they going to start a discussion on the shape of health protection in Poland and what direction is this going to be going in? Because the whole country is discussing, we all know how tragic the situation is in county hospitals, and it is a strange fact that those who are responsible are not discussing it. Hence my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u18	If I may, Mr Marshal, ask that the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr Janusz Cieszyński, present at our meeting, answer this question... During the work of the committee, as I have already mentioned, we have drawn attention to the very difficult situation of hospitals, especially financial hospitals, and to the difficult situation of single-name hospitals, which have been transformed many times. It's not here. also records that could come up against hospitals in this difficult situation for them. But I would ask that this question concerning the future shape and expected shape of protection, health services be kindly answered by Minister Cieszyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u19	It is the senator who will remind you of the question of how Minister Cieszyński will answer. Now Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u20	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Senator, the question is simple. In your report, you stated that you were based on media reports in order to identify the entities that might be interested in the article. 43.46. Were these merely media reports, or did you seek information at source, that is, in government factors? Is it serious for the committee, based on media information, to draw conclusions?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u21	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u22	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. Living in the modern world, we seek information from various sources. And reading about various events, about such a very important, solemnly celebrated moment of bringing in a few tons of personal protective equipment from China and the relations that the Prime Minister himself also spoke about... The Prime Minister said he gave such an order to both KGHM and Lotus. And reading also about the fact that these companies incurred all the costs associated with bringing in this equipment and the costs associated with renting transport, this large anton... I know they don't have their expenses refunded yet, and they're hoping to be reimbursed. And that's where I come up with the clear answer that art. 43 is dedicated to those entities which have executed the order of the President of the Council of Ministers. Because if it weren't, Mr. Senator, it wouldn't have been necessary to meet the needs of companies that incurred the costs of ordering the President of the Council of Ministers. It would have been easier if the Minister had been kind enough to answer this question that I asked at the Health Committee meeting, which are specifically the actors in such a situation that they had carried out the order, incurred the costs and now, using the article. 43, they can make up for their expectations. Since the Minister did not answer this question directly at the committee meeting, I am taking advantage of my knowledge, and that is why I have provided this information. Recording of the article. 43 does not say that it is about companies that will realize, or companies that will realize in the future, or those that are in the process of realization, only those that have already realized. For me, then, the answer to this question is clear and simple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u23	Thank you. There you go, Senator. Senator Hibner. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u24	Thank you very much. I have this question: did you discuss this at the committee meeting and get information about the printing of cards that were accepted by the Polish Post? I understand that it was not the Polish Post that printed them, only other entities. Will all these printed cards that have been handed over to Poczta be recycled by the Polish Post Office, or will other entities be taken into account? The election is over, and we're still going to pay and finance old cases that are already closed. I have just such a question, will there be only a return for Polish Post for storing... Well, this is where the president said they got those cards from somebody, they didn't print them, they got them and they kept them in their magazines. I would like to know whether these cards are still kept in these warehouses, whether they have already been recycled, whether we will all bear not only the costs of printing, not only storage, storage, transport, but also disposal. Has this matter been discussed? If not, I will ask the Minister whether such matters were raised at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u25	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u26	Dear Senator, at the meeting of the Committee on Health, we did not discuss the election cards in detail, nor the place or way in which the electoral cards are stored. We only noticed that the recording of the article. 22 of this law is clearly dedicated to the entity to which the Polish Post was, which was Polish Post, which incurred the cost due to the organization of the unrecognized presidential elections in correspondence on 10 May. However, we did not talk about the kind of details that the senator is talking about at the Health Committee meeting. We have only pointed out that this amendment is non-constitutional and goes far beyond the matter of the bill presented to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u27	Thank you, Senator. Are there any more questions? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. In this connection, I will ask: does Minister Janusz Cieszyński wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u28	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I, to tell you the truth, would like to take the floor in an unpredicted correction procedure in the Senate's Rules of Procedure due to certain information that was given by the senator. In my view, it is not clear that the law does not contain solutions which are related to the functioning of the health system in the autumn. In particular, I would like to point out that I have clearly indicated which solutions in this law do this function. For the record, I'd like to say exactly what this is all about. Namely, one of the provisions, which the Senate Legislative Office has challenged, concerns that the orders issued by the Minister of Health, the President of the Council of Ministers and voivodeships, concerning the fundamental issue of the operation of hospitals of one-name hospitals, should be maintained in their lives precisely because the relevant provision is included in this law. So that, ladies and gentlemen, all recommendations concerning medical supplements, the operation of single-name hospitals and all other decisions made to health care facilities in relation to the epidemic will be maintained, precisely because the relevant provision is included in this Act. Therefore, I ask once again to keep this provision in the text that comes out of the Senate. Without this from day to day at the beginning of September we will no longer have single-name hospitals, which, as you certainly remember, were, you can say, the heart of the health system in relation to the outbreak of COVID-19. You also mentioned a senator on teleports. This was also the subject of discussion yesterday. In particular, I have pointed out to you that the issues related to teleports will be included in the organizational standard for teleports, which today received an exemption from the Legal Commission at the Government Legislative Centre and will, I hope, be issued by the end of this week in the form of a regulation of the Minister of Health. At the same time, the guidelines of the national consultant, Prof. Agnieszka Mastalerz-Migas, will be published with this regulation in terms of how teleports are to function in basic healthcare. It is in such documents that such issues are regulated and in our opinion they simply do not require changes in the legal nature. What requires statutory changes, e.g. The creation of additional systems, as requested by the Law and Justice Club yesterday in one of the amendments, was not approved by the senators and this amendment was not adopted yesterday during the work of the committee. Although, in my view, this would be appropriate, as this would allow for automated epidemiological investigations in cases related to larger events such as. Weddings. We have numerous information about at least a few such cases, when there was a big fire at the wedding or the event, which caused the transmission not only within the event itself, but also later, for example. within the workplaces where the participants of those events worked. So that these are specific issues that we would like to see in this bill. And, well, unfortunately, there was no support for that at the committee meeting yesterday. It is also worth pointing out that many legislative reservations submitted by the Legislative Office received... Government support is not significant in this situation, but the support of the High Commission. And here together we have come to the conclusion that many of these legislative comments were justified. And it is perfectly normal and it is very good practice that very often thanks to the excellent work of employees of the Senate Legislative Office, we manage to improve certain issues which during work at both government level, as part of the work of the Government Legislative Centre, as well as in the Seym we simply failed to catch. I would like to thank you again from this place. I would also like to address the issue of art. 43, which... [[Minister, I'm sorry, you can't hear well. There's a button on the side, up, on the right...]] [[Voice from the room: I think it's maximum]] [[Voice from the room: No, no]] [[Well, if you'll just turn it up a little bit... 'cause you're pretty tall.]] Okay, Mr. Marshal, I'll try to speak more clearly. As far as the article is concerned. 43, it is in my view that it adequately identifies the objective and means to achieve it. Namely art. 43 points out that the entities which, in connection with the counter-measures of COVID-19, carried out the order of the President of the Council of Ministers We already know here that there is a closed and well-defined directory of these entities In order to make purchases and distribution... In short, you can say: personal protective equipment, so it can be said, although actually professionally It would have to be developed, but there's probably no time for that right now, and there's no need for that. These entities may apply to the Head of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers for reimbursement of the costs of complete implementation of this order. Ladies and gentlemen, this is quite clear in my view, because this allows the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund to be reimbursed, which in turn is the subject of Article. 44 of this law, reimbursement of appropriate funds to those to whom these decisions have been issued. And this makes some of the issues that have been mentioned in the regulations on these commands quite clear, because this... After all, you remember when these regulations were made. Those were the rules that were made at the beginning of March. They appeared in the bill, if I remember correctly, on 2 March this year, when thanks to the fantastic cooperation of both chambers of parliament, these regulations were very quickly adopted. Financial instruments, additional resources, among others, came later. from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, and there was a need to clarify the provisions on the matter, it seems, quite obvious. Because if someone cooperated on behalf of the Prime Minister or the Minister of Health in order to achieve the objectives of countering COVID-19, then the reimbursement of costs to a reasonable level would normally be due to him in the world. In my opinion, this provision does not contain any defects. I hope that the text of the bill, which will be returned to the Senate Parliament, will contain this provision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u29	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the following question. Why has this law not raised a very important problem, namely the problem with hospitals? It's about hospitals, both single-name hospitals and those that are on high alert. Their functioning has been changed, mostly by the voivodship's decision. As a result of this decision, they are loss-making and have increased operating costs. I will explain this in the example of a hospital with increased readiness, which must have in its structure so-called. the transitional branch, as it is included in the voivodship's recommendation. Therefore, one branch had to be transformed and now this branch does not cure patients, nor does it generate income. The contract is therefore not implemented. Why is it not clear in this law how the NFZ will approach these unexecuted lump sums? It is known that hospitals do not perform several or several lump sums according to old regulations, those that were in force before COVID. Why didn't you take care of it when the bill says we're safe both during and after the epidemic? Why is the NFZ not commenting on the fact that this money will not be returned by hospitals, since we care that companies that have been ordered Just like the Minister was explaining it to us. And they were shopping for equipment, they got reparation, they had the costs covered? Why don't we take care of hospitals? Why are hospitals overlooked in this bill and there is nothing in it about their funding both now and after the epidemic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u31	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u32	Dear Senator, This was not discussed at the committee meeting yesterday, but I would like to draw the senator's attention to the article. Article 4 (4) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 61, where in Article. Paragraph 136c. 2 is replaced by the following: the amount of the flat-rate security scheme shall be determined for the reference period laid down in the contract. This is, Mr Senator, a provision that will allow us to carry out the task that you are talking about, which is to extend at the level of the agreement concluded between the National Health Fund and a specific hospital the period of implementation of the lump sum in such a way that the measures that could not be due to the increased readiness that you have been talking about this year can be spent later and that the entire extended period can be properly settled. However, I must express some concern here, because the broad package of amendments tabled at the request of the Legislative Office contains an element which provides for the deletion of this provision. So we're not gonna be able to achieve the goal that you're talking about, the senator. to ensure that we are able to manage the settlements between hospitals and the National Health Fund in a more flexible way, due to the outbreak. I hope this information will at least convince the senator to make this specific amendment. If necessary, if she had been notified Don't support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u33	Thank you. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u34	Minister, this question is sort of next to the topic of the committee... If you can answer, please, if you can't, then of course I understand. Are there any discussions between the government and the European Commission about extending the time to use the money from this 5-year perspective ending this year? Freezing the economy for 3 months in spring, there is also the possibility that it will be frozen I hope not! In the fall... That's what makes it possible for us to spend six months using these funds. Have you heard anything from the Minister in this regard? Are there any conversations? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: No, Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u35	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u36	It seems that it is indeed impossible to disagree with you that this is a little out of the question, i.e. The bill we're talking about today. But I will try to answer from the perspective of the person supervising the projects implemented from the European Union's funds. I'm not sure if the perspective itself is shifted, the time frame of the perspective itself... In any event, thanks to excellent cooperation with the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, it has been possible to ensure that the deadlines for the tasks carried out in the framework of the project are shifted. Unless I'm mistaken, this shift is at least three months away. But I think that detailed and very accurate information on this matter is known to you by Minister Jarosinska-Jedynak and that she would be the most appropriate recipient of this question. [[Sure, thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u37	Thank you. You're asking questions now, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u38	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you said that the bill also includes 'Cause that's the way it is. . Solutions that will improve whether they improve health protection or prevent the outbreak of Coronavirus. But please estimate how much in this whole matter we have here. From sugar tax to other good solutions There are solutions that will actually serve only and only what is involved in the fight against the coronavirus, and how many, according to the Minister, are those that have been turned on because... well, they were just turned on. That's the first question. Second question, Minister. Let me ask you straight away: could the provision in this law relating to the possible reimbursement of the costs incurred concern Orlen and KGHM or not? That's first of all. And why did you write it? It can be submitted rather than unambiguously, i.e. That the one who received the order would receive a refund? Why? And then there's the question of settlement. It's what Senator Wojciech Necessary asked. If a hospital with a contract with the NFZ has been ordered to convert it to one-name hospitals, then of course it did not perform the contract. And, as you say, he will be able to carry it out later. If he doesn't get it done, Minister, he's going to have a smaller contract next year, because he hasn't completed this year's contract. Is this bill... Are you guys even planning on... Is it possible, I would say, to counter the fact that someone who did the order was not punished by having a smaller contract next year? Will this law, at all, legislation in Poland and your actions prevent this phenomenon?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u39	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u40	Dear Senator, High Izbo, if... to answer this question... In your first question, you asked what percentage of these records involved in combating the spread of Coronavirus and the widespread effects of the epidemic. Well, Mr. Senator, in my opinion, all the changes here have to do with this. And it really is. I discussed it quite extensively yesterday during the committee meeting. That there are such records that do not apply to the strict health care system. It's completely obvious. Dear Senator, let us follow the history, the legislative path of the projects that have been carried out precisely because this epidemic has occurred in Poland and around the world. If we look closely at this, it will turn out that the result of the epidemic was not only changes in the health system, because the social and economic system is a system of connected vessels. It turned out that when we have an epidemic in Poland and the way in which the country operates changes, it is necessary to change many other regulations. I understand that the discussion with Senator Pociej indicated that there was a proposal to add a change to this bill today, which concerns meetings of chambers or professional authorities using mechanisms of distance communication. Well, you can point out that it's something that's not strictly related to the health system, but... hopefully you'll agree with me that it's that, for example. Today's meeting is also held in remote mode, that is, the aftermath of this epidemic. If we agree that the epidemic does not only close in the walls of hospitals, clinics or clinics, then, in my opinion, we should also consider that legislation related to, for example. on the organisation of elections, which was adapted to the conditions, the epidemic, that the provisions relating to the settlement of expenditure on the measures necessary to combat the epidemic, that the provisions relating to the fact that, in the time of the epidemic, when the sugar levy law had returned to the Sejm and there was no possibility of amending it... We're making this adjustment now. These principles of legislation, ladies and gentlemen, in my view, are extremely important because they are to order this process. And that, of course, is very important. We are clearly in a state of higher necessity, where certain solutions need to be applied, which, in a normal situation, could, of course, raise far-reaching doubts. I fully agree with that. In 2009, there was a situation that the Sejm dealt with a law which was not announced in the Official Journal of the Laws. It was about the so-called. a package of laws of the then Minister, Mrs Kopacz, a package of laws concerning the health system for which President Kaczyński vetoed the law on implementing rules. And then, because that law was vetoed, another law was drawn up, which referred in its content to laws which were not in the Official Journal of the Laws. If we look at the side of the Sejm of that term, we will notice that there, just as here, we have dealt with a bill or a draft law, for which there was no number, a reference to the Journal of Laws. But then the Constitutional and Governmental Tribunal of the Legislative Centre agreed that the purpose of these principles was primarily to ensure a certain order, a certain legislative order. At the same time, at the end of the day, the most important objective is that the legislator should have the right to achieve this objective. This type of instrument is already included in this Act. You also asked me, Senator, what companies I know will be covered by the rules that the article introduces. 43. I have no accurate knowledge, this knowledge is owned by the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers. I know that the law firm of the Prime Minister made such decisions and was involved in handling these cases. As I have pointed out here before, in my opinion this is a strict regulation. There's nothing new here, nothing fundamentally changing the legal order. It's an ordering recipe. I have had the opportunity to find out on my own that any doubts about the measures taken during the epidemic are later considered to the detriment of the policy that has taken them. Well, that's reality. In the face of this reality, please do not be surprised that we are making sure that the legal basis for all measures to combat the epidemic is 100% reliable and indisputable, which is included in the statutory regulations. The senator also asked me what would happen to hospitals that wouldn't perform the contract. That is what this provision I was talking about in the context of Senator Necessary's questions about the article is intended to serve. 136b or 136c. I don't remember exactly which article it was, but there's no point in me checking it out right now. It's about the benefit bill. This concerns the possibility of extending the performance of the contract until the date for which the hospital will agree with the National Health Fund. Mr. Senator has 100%. That's right, saying that hospitals were operating under completely extraordinarily extraordinarily conditions. Therefore, extra-ordinary mechanisms are needed that go beyond what hospital network developers predicted, i.e. beyond the principle that this is concluded for a period of 1 year, that the settlement period is just 1 year. We are extending this period so that we can manage it flexibly. What exactly are the rules here? This will be the subject of our discussions with the actors. Please note that among others. Due to the emergence of funds from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, it was possible to compensate for losses in the health contribution. During the epidemic, when the revenues from contributions from entrepreneurs were record low, it was possible to finance, among others. 3 per cent increase in the valuation of hospital benefits, 3 per cent increase in the valuation of all benefits carried out by all entities, except for specific items such as: medication programs. It was precisely because we also know that there are additional costs here. This is also implemented by the President of the Fund on the basis of a recommendation from the Minister of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, if these provisions recommended by the Legislative Office are removed from this law, then on 5 or 6 September a 3% surcharge for each medicinal product in Poland will disappear, the payment paid on this basis will also disappear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u41	Thank you. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Could I... I don't think I answered one question.]] Yes? There you go. Answer me. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: But could you remind me of them? Because I might have missed something.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u42	It was about... Because the Minister said that in general... [[Microphone.]] I'm sorry. The Minister said that companies that received orders and acted on behalf and in the case could apply for compensation. My question was kind of two-membered. First of all, does this give Orlen and KGHM the opportunity to claim compensation? That's the first question. Two: why did you write down that they could perform?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u43	Oh, okay. As far as specific companies are concerned, that's what I'm talking about. As for this second question, the question is why the word "may" is here, I will say yes. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the time when entrepreneurs ask the country for any funding, this is done in the application procedure. That's the secret to this recipe. I understand that the senator's question is that there may be some arbitraryness here, for example. The Prime Minister's office may say that this is exactly what the entrepreneur will not give such support or funding. In my view, this provision should not be read in this way because the intention of the legislator is clear here. It's about being able to do that. Well, there's an application, and on the basis of that request... This provision gives the possibility to request the transfer of funds from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. I understand the senator's doubt, but in my view this provision is unambiguous and does not give any opportunity to refuse this funding because, what is worth noting, the possibility is passed on to the entrepreneur rather than to the head of the NAP. [[Mr. Marshal, may I...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u44	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u45	Minister, the mechanism is as follows: public authority Let's assume: Prime Minister It gives orders to the company, executes them and may occur as part of the execution of this command. No, the conclusion system is that I'm announcing the contest and whoever wants to take off. Here was an order: please implement this, because this is the need for you to fight the epidemic. And you're right. So I think there should be a record that whoever gave the order has to pay. That's one thing. Secondly, the question of how much to pay should be settled through negotiations. Third, in the absence of agreement, this case should be settled by the court. You write down something that could be very dangerous. As we have said, Minister, do not write down so openly when it comes to the issue of the elimination of entire public procurement as regards the issue of procurement... That is why I am also saying that this is too discretionary as regards the implementation of reimbursement to those who have been ordered. The competition wasn't announced, and the order was issued.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u46	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u47	Dear Senator, my assessment of this provision is clear. In my opinion, it shows that the possibility is not on the side of the head of KPRM, but on the side of the applicant. At the same time, if the senator has any proposal to modify the contents of this provision, I declare our full openness to lean on it. If the senator offers another solution that will also contribute to this goal, I am convinced that it will receive the support of the government. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u48	There you go. Mr. Senator, I understand that this is a remark, but the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u49	Minister, if I were to suggest that this would not apply to state-owned companies such as Orlen, KGHM, then perhaps the boss would not be pleased. Therefore, I think that the Minister's interpretation is a sufficient recommendation that those who did the job will be rewarded.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u50	That's what's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u51	Minister, now I have a question. In another place, in the COVID bill, you put a refund on the Post office for printing... Not for printing, but for preparing these elections on May 10th, which didn't take place, which is for completing, for something else, for storing... and so on. As long as the issue of those purchases that directly concerned COVID is understandable to me... You downloaded it because it was an extraordinary situation; you bought what you could, and you bought it as soon as possible. But what does the COVID bill have to do with the costs that the Post Office has incurred regarding the preparations for the election on May 10th, which did not take place? That's, like, 78 million. Minister, I would also like to know what other institutions have been spending on this election that has not taken place. That's the question I'm asking you: were there any other institutions that incurred expenses? And how much will it take to cover it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u52	Mr. Marshal, I answer the question. It is worth leaning over the construction of the art. 22, precisely because if we look at the amounts appearing in the media space... For example, in the course of this debate one of the senators pointed out the amount of PLN 70 million, Mr Marshal pointed out the amount of PLN 78 million. In my view, this clearly demonstrates that it is necessary to determine very precise and precise how much such compensation should be. [[Well, I'm asking you.]] That's where I'm going with this. Well, Mr Marshal, these provisions provide that a mechanism is being put in place to estimate these costs properly incurred. In this assessment or in the preparation of the contract on the basis of which these funds will be transferred, the Office of Electronic Communications, i.e. an authority which, as an independent regulator, supervises the operation of all institutions in the postal market, because among others. it determines the amount of the tariff and therefore has very precise information on the costs incurred in carrying out the postal activity. It is precisely to the fact that it is possible to determine what these reasonable costs are and how much they should be, that a provision is created which provides that the Office of Electronic Communications will assist the National Election Office in estimating these costs. The second cost item concerns the printing of voting cards, which in turn is a task which the National Election Office may not annually, but on every occasion carried out. Therefore, the National Election Office itself, in our assessment, has the necessary knowledge to adequately determine the level of these reasonable costs and, consequently, the compensation. So that according to my knowledge It is worth pointing out here that in this case it would be best to refer to the National Election Office, which has the most accurate knowledge on this subject. They will be institutions involved in the distribution and printing of cards. So, as you pointed out, it will be the Post Office of Poland. As for the other institutions, please forgive me, but the provision does not indicate them by name, it merely indicates the directory on which it will be defined, which institutions can be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u53	Minister, you're avoiding answers, you're avoiding the amount. It's more or less known how much the Post Office has incurred, and not just the Post Office... You, coming with this bill, should have this kind of information. I will ask you an auxiliary question, but not concerning the Post: did PWPW, or the State Security Printing Works, issue about PLN 4.5 million on printing order for printing works in Brodnica?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u54	Mr Marshal, I understand your question, but I cannot agree with your thesis that I avoid answering it, because the matter of the law that I am presenting on behalf of the Council of Ministers is something else. It does not indicate by name or even by a function that could... Well, if we were to point out that this is, for example. The operator designated on the postal market, that would not actually be the name, but you could say: well, but it is obvious that it is the Polish Post Office Akcyjna Spółka. But it's not advisable here. Art. 117a, b and c do not refer to this, they merely indicate that the mechanism is being introduced. As I said yesterday at the committee meeting, this is a mechanism of a more technical, organisational, accounting nature, which allows to determine the costs incurred by the institutions involved in the elections. Because I hope that the Marshal will agree with me that the National Election Office, as an institution that has been overseeing the organisation of elections for many, many years, has information about the reasonable costs of printing cards. At the same time, due to the fact that the National Election Office may not have detailed knowledge of the means of functioning of a company such as Posta Polska, as a professional advisor, such support in negotiating this agreement is indicated in this Act by the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, who regulates this market and therefore has very detailed knowledge. And so we're not able to do it on the basis of the rules. Because it's also worth pointing out that there are no provisions to set funding limits or other such rules here. . which are in the laws, already today estimate what the costs will be. This is an instrument where you need to reliably and professionally estimate the amount of costs, and then on this basis... Then the National Election Office will have the basis for the transfer of funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u55	Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Thank you.]] I will respond to what you said in my speech. I don't want to prolong the questions. Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u56	Mr. Marshal, Minister, I just want to ask you about these teleports. Because the Minister said the information would be in the regulation. We have a lot of votes, especially for the elderly, in the context of when this will happen. Could you tell me a little more? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u57	Of course. As I pointed out yesterday at the committee meeting, he has now completed the work of an expert team chaired by Prof. Agnieszka Mastalerz-Migas, a national consultant in the field of family medicine, whose task was to develop an organisational standard issued on the basis of the Act on Medical Activity, concerning the provision of teleporade in primary health care facilities. And this standard was then, in accordance with the rules of the procedure of this type of legislation, addressed... It was, of course, also consulted. Many stakeholders took part in this consultation: the General Chamber of Medicine, such an organization called Telemedical Working Group, which brings together entities interested in the development of telemedicine, the Federation of the Zielona Góra Agreement, which brings together the largest group of family doctors in Poland. Many other organizations took part in this, which indicated how this should be modified. A significant part of these comments has been taken into account. And then the said standard was addressed to accept or to obtain exemption from the legal commission from the Government Legislative Centre. That's what we got today. So that's ready to sign the Minister of Health. But Minister Kraska is sitting here, so he won't be able to sign during the meeting. But I'm pretty sure this week it's definitely gonna be signed, to be perfectly serious. [[Well, maybe I'll ask. Because I understand, the legislative process, it's all going on. But in this regulation, as soon as it comes into force... as soon as Minister Kraska signs it, we hope that it will come into force quickly. And this option...]] It will enter into force, Madam Senator, within 60 days, so as to give operators time to adapt to these conditions. As I have already pointed out, the guidelines of the national consultant will be issued at the same time as this regulation. They were created as part of a working group involving representatives of both the Ministry and the National Health Fund, but also practitioners, experts who, on behalf of their organisations and using their experience, submitted their comments to these guidelines. And it should be in my view that it should fully regulate how distance advice will be implemented within the framework of basic health care. Because it is in basic health care that these teleporads are the most. It is also worth pointing out that we, listening to those voices that the senator is talking about, conducted a survey among those who were advised in the family doctor's office. This was a survey on how to conduct the advice itself, thanks to which we know e.g. The fact that 8 out of 10 of these advices were just teleporades but there were also questions about patient satisfaction. These results are good in my opinion, i.e. in a 10-degree scale, the average score was 8 and the highest score gave this solution 45% surveyed. Of course, the truth is that the patient's satisfaction in the case of medical advice is not enough, because the medical effect is also important. For this reason, we conducted an analysis on prescription and prescription implementation, which is to say, in a simplified way, whether patients are getting prescriptions and whether they are later implemented in pharmacies. Also in the time of the epidemic. And it turns out... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll tell you what, it's a little more complicated than that. About 90% ... [[Minister, the deadline is not complicated. I already figured it out. November. Thank you.]] The senator is right, of course. 90% This is actually being done, but for some of the diseases, some of the medications were significantly declining because, for example, the prescription was very low. The children remained in their homes and the infections that most often occurred in school, they simply did not happen, and thus the prescription fell. That is why we are trying to monitor this situation from many sides. I briefly summarized the results of this surveillance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u58	Senator Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u59	Thank you very much. Minister, we are dealing with a law to ensure the functioning of health protection. I would like to know what health care has to do with ensuring that cards are printed, stored or disposed of. What does that have to do with health care? I'm asking because I don't think that's gonna fit in here. You said it was all by order of the Prime Minister, this reimbursement of various purchases, including future ones. I'd like to know if the Prime Minister was ordering the purchase of masks, tests, ventilators, everything that's about to end. It's not always... Well, either it didn't come, or it turns out it's not always the right quality. In that case, if there is such an order that we will buy e.g. Tanks at the border, because they're gonna protect health and life too, so we're gonna use it? Is it written just to give a symptom of the fact that once the Prime Minister made a decision and told me to do so, even though there were no regulations yet? Isn't that on the principle of... Well, isn't that kind of an excuse for some incompetence, for what Mr. Prime Minister did at the time?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u60	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u61	Dear Senator, there were so many questions during your speech that I don't know if I remember them all. I'm happy to answer most of them; I hope I remember them. Well, you're asking if it's a coincidence that our actions today are aimed at, you might say, covering up some of the wrong actions of the Prime Minister and the entire government. That's a very good question. I think I answered it in some part of it, but I'd love to get back to it. Well, Dear Senator, today, when the situation in both Poland and the world is completely different than in early March, it is very easy to review the behaviour of the Prime Minister. And the truth is: as soon as we leave the plenary room and the sitting room of the committee, even the state, the representatives of the parliamentary opposition, here the majority, admit that what, but courage in making decisions to the Prime Minister and the Government of Law and Justice did not lack. And the decisions were difficult, they were made in exceptional circumstances. Their assessment is, of course, necessary, because if we don't assess how we acted then it may happen that where something went wrong, not 100% As it should, the same situations will happen later. However, in my opinion, suggesting that this is an attempt to cover the wrong actions is not simply based on the truth. What we're talking about here... These provisions concern the legal settlement of how to transfer funds from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, which, I will remind you, when decisions were taken on the law on issuing instructions, was not yet made, it was created later. Therefore, it is probably necessary to create such a legislative structure. It seems to me that this is an action caused primarily by what, I can say, happened e.g. Me. As you had to, Senator, buy masks, how you had to buy suits, how you had to buy fluids, ventilators, etc., it's most people who are now in the media or actually all those people who are now in the media and criticizing these purchases... Well, those people didn't offer anything in return. These people did not have the opportunity to sign any documents at the time, because they were simply not there. Mr Dariusz Joński, who is known in the media as Sherlock, a few days before this purchase, who later claimed to have been traced to the Ministry of Health, addressed an interpellation in which he asked for the purchase of ventilators. Everyone who worked on this market then and tried to buy such equipment knows exactly what this market looked like back then. So please do not be surprised by the government and the majority of Parliament that it is proposing rules which are 100% strict Perhaps even, I would say, overly regulate these issues. The point is that later all these acts from the time of the epidemic, from a time when all of Poland, I think, was afraid of what was going to happen in connection with the epidemic of Coronavirus, will be accounted for by people who did not put their hand in this fight and today sit in a very comfortable reviewer's chair. I'm not talking about the senator, of course. I'm talking about other people that we can see in the media every day. Is there a new solution here? No, this solution merely clarifies the way in which they will be transferred, in connection with the decisions issued by your Prime Minister, from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. I just told your marshal's questions about the size of these costs. It has come to the conclusion that, at the level of the law, we enter something that should be related to ordinary common sense, that is, how we will determine the value of products that were bought not on the black market, but on invoice and in official circulation in relation to the prevention of epidemics, the prevention of epidemics. Now it turns out that we have reached such a level of distrust that we even type in how this should be estimated. Although I don't think anybody's accusing anybody from the government. At least I didn't hear those voices in public space. The question is that he somehow distributed the funds for his own or for someone else's benefit. I understand your law, of course, and this is very good... There was a very long meeting of the committee chaired by Senator Pociej and Mrs Małecka-Libera, on which the subject of purchases was discussed very thoroughly. And we don't run away from this conversation. And these rules are just so that there is no doubt as to how the tasks directly related to the prevention of the spread of the epidemic and indirectly resulting from the fact that in 2020 this epidemic has invaded Poland... to be 100% sure of under what conditions They are to be settled.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u62	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u63	I'd like to ask you something because the Minister didn't answer the question. We talk about health care all the time. I understand that neither card printing nor storage nor disposal can be included in the health care category. And I repeat, why is this written? Why isn't it in the other laws? I understand that there is such a need, but why should health care take on something that is not at all related to its functioning? The Minister has yet to say that the National Election Office will give exactly... the President of the National Election Office here, in this Chamber, almost two days before 10 May said that he doesn't print cards, he doesn't know anything, he doesn't even know where the cards are, he doesn't know what's going on with them. So how do you even say anything like you say he'll know? How would he know? Well, unless he gets that information from you. But that's not his information because he wasn't involved. So, you know, it's just here for me... I'm not saying there were no costs here, but it shouldn't be attached to health care, because it really doesn't hold up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u64	So it's not in this bill... Thank you. I have the same question. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: I accept...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u65	I accept, also as a tribute to yesterday's discussion at the committee meeting, the argument that I really did not exercise my diligence here and that it was also necessary to work on the title of the law during the work in the Sejm. Indeed, I accept that because it would certainly improve the situation. As for the second point, in my opinion, Mrs. Senator, what you're saying is... Of course, I do not question the role of the National Election Office, but the only thing I was referring to is the fact that in terms of card printing costs, the National Election Office has knowledge of what this market looks like. I'm not saying it was responsible for this transaction. But just as we all have some expertise in this field of life that we are dealing with, and we are able to comment on it, and also, for example. To estimate certain costs, so in my opinion the National Election Office, in terms of card printing, is able to carry out this task in an expert manner. It would be much harder to do this in terms of services provided by the Polish Post Office. Therefore, the Act provides for the involvement of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, which can provide information on such expertise to the National Office of Election.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u66	Senator Beat Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u67	Thank you very much. Minister, you just admitted that the epidemic situation at first was extraordinary. But it was your country that decided that you would not act in accordance with the Emergency Act, but that you were running into individual shields. So it was your choice. And regardless of whether you bought in the devil or not, it had to and must be done according to the law, because this is about spending public money. Therefore, my question refers again to the article. 43. I would very much like to know how many orders Mr. Chairman of the Council of Ministers has given to whom. I know you may not be able to answer that question right now, but I would like a written answer on how many orders have been issued. More specifically, I would like to ask whether the President of the Council of Ministers, who issued orders for the purchase and distribution of this personal protective equipment, also included medical facilities. Because we're talking about the health care bill. As for the fact that the converted hospitals are about these 21 single-name hospitals, they were equipped with equipment later, that is, consent. But other hospitals, Stovidowskie, were buying equipment on their own, or perhaps by order of the Council of Ministers or without that command, or perhaps on other terms. I would therefore like to know whether this article will also apply to medical agents and hospitals. And another question. In the context of compensation, will these reimbursements also be reimbursed for the increased number of tests carried out by health centres?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u68	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u69	Madam President, as I have already pointed out, I do not have detailed knowledge of the subjects under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers and, consequently, on the content of these instructions. I am therefore unable to answer the President's questions. [[Thank you...]] [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: What about hospitals and medical entities, Minister? Do they fall within the scope of this article if they have incurred costs?]] Madam President, as far as those who have been covered by these recommendations are concerned, as I have already pointed out, I do not have a list of those entities, and therefore I do not have any information on the subject of their activities. Then I'm not able to give you an exact answer. Perhaps we need such a supplement here. I answer as if next to this question, but remaining on the subject . that medicinal entities, including those other than single-name hospitals, have already received significant support, both financially and factually, related to the prevention of the epidemic. Thank you very much for your question about health inspection, because the sanitary inspection has been at the front of the fight against the coronavirus from the very beginning, and has received additional funds from the very beginning. It receives in-kind and organisational support, among others. as regards the digitisation of the processes that take place in the framework of the inspection. I spoke to Minister Pinkas about this three hours ago. From the very beginning, we have been assured by Prime Minister Morawiecki that there will be no shortage of 1 zloty to carry out the tasks of the State Sanitary Inspection.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u70	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u71	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Marshal! You said that everything in this bill is about fighting the COVID. So explain to me the meaning of Art. 29, which directly refers to the Institute of Labor Medicine in Sosnowiec, to its liquidation. Since I am a pinewood woman, I was very moved by this subject. The fact that you have eliminated this very respectable institution that has existed for decades is a sin for which there is no absolution. The fact that this law contains an article on the transfer of banal PLN 20 million to the liquidation of this institute is absolutely unacceptable and reprehensible. I have a draft amendment that deletes the article. 29 and I will demand that a public debate be held on the measures that have been taken by the Ministry and that this institution be divided into parts, devastated, eliminated. These were actions which absolutely cannot find the final in the form of an article. Twenty-nine, closing the case with a $20 million settlement. Can you tell me anything about this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u72	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u73	Yeah, absolutely. The transfer of this amount is necessary to satisfy the claims of creditors and employees and to cover the labour costs of the liquidation of the Institute in Sosnowiec. Without these funds, those who have worked in this institution for many years will not receive the remuneration due. [[Minister, but I asked you to show me what this has to do with COVID.]] Oh, I'll explain that to the senator. This is due to the fact that the institution's liquidation process has been prolonged due to the epidemic, and additional resources are therefore needed for this purpose. Since the transfer of these funds, as recommended by the Ministry of Finance, requires us to issue legislation at the level of the law, this has been included in this very legal act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u74	Thank you. Attention to protocol. Minister, because you did not answer my question about the compensation costs which the Act grants to companies that prepared the elections on 10 May • those who kept and printed the cards or did other activities. I would ask for an answer on these issues in writing. It's about the list of companies and how much they cost. If it is not possible to indicate the exact costs, please provide estimates for individual companies. Okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u75	Of course. But you're welcome to... I should warn you in advance that this task will be passed on to Minister Michael Dworczyk, who will have better knowledge on this subject.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u76	Minister, I don't care who you hand over to. There is a bill that provides for costs, so I ask you to show these costs and companies... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Of course.]] ...which needs to be reimbursed for their expenses. Now Mrs. Joanna Sekuła. [[Voice from the room: It's already been.]] [[Voice from the room: It was just a moment ago.]] Oh, she was. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u77	Welcome. Thank you very much. [[Remotely.]] I've been looking forward to speaking, although I've been calling in a lot earlier. I don't know if you can hear me. Is that so, Mr. Marshal? [[Yes, but speak loudly.]] Good. I will speak louder because, unfortunately, as a senator who is sitting remotely today, I have not heard the Minister's statements on many issues. To be honest, if I were to give teleporise to my elderly patients, I think I might not be able to do my job as a doctor. And what I'm trying to say is that right now, the doctor is writing prescriptions, making decisions based on a physical examination. Of course, in the age of COVID, when a pandemic threatened us, when a pandemic broke out, this solution is acceptable, but it cannot be fascinated, because I cannot imagine how a surgeon or a doctor of practice in academic medicine can give teleposal. The Minister said here about the POZ, and I want to ask you this question: does the Minister know what procedure 89.0099 is? ? And do you know how priced this procedure is in specialists, e.g. in the case of cardiological advice? Are those 3% The medical subjects you've been talking about, the ones that this bill is about to talk about, if it's voted out, will result in a higher valuation of the various medical advices? And above all, I'd like to say something like that. You may have that knowledge, but as a second-degree specialist in two areas, I'm giving advice and I see, despite the patient's satisfaction survey you quoted... Maybe you're happy about it, but in practice, in a medicine that deals with treating people, it doesn't exactly work. We will see what results will be in case of survival, following our various recommendations, because, of course, in case of continuation of prescriptions it has worked out as much as possible. So the first question is about this teleporad valuation. And my second question is: did I ask this question yesterday at the Health Committee, but you left out, ignored my question, has any particular solutions for the coming period? That's what practitioners ask, among other things. POZ doctors, as patients will be assigned there in September, small patients up to the age of 18 and older patients, basically all of them, but now I'm talking about these young people. Are there any guidelines like doctors of first contact? They're not just P.O.D. doctors, they're E.R. doctors, S.R.s, mostly paediatric hospitals, and they're supposed to deal with the symptoms of infection that are often the same as the symptoms of COVID-19? And please don't answer me in many ways. I'll ask for specific answers to my questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u78	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister. Just make sure you're not too loud.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u79	Good. I am very sorry for the quality of the call, but in this respect, the responsibility in my assessment rests with the Senate Office. Of course, I will try to speak louder so that this voice of mine reaches the senator and I can dispel the doubts you raised. I'm gonna start with the teleporad thing. Well, Mrs. Senator, the Civic Platform government has introduced a provision into the Act on the Profession of Doctors and Dentist, this is specifically an article. 2 (2) 4. which indicates that your doctor may perform your duties also through electronic systems or communication systems. And that's the perfect recipe. Once again, great thanks to all of you from the Civic Platform who were involved in getting him in the Polish legal order. It also provides a legal basis for the provision of healthcare services at a distance. So much for the teleporad issue. As far as the specific issues of quality and other related things are concerned, I absolutely agree with you that the teleporade is not a panacea for all the challenges in the health system. I absolutely agree with you that we must certainly have very well established, which is a guaranteed witness, which can be done by means of distance communication techniques. You seem to be pointing out that this is, for example. The continuation of the prescription is very accurate. The survey we conducted shows that this is what 60% of the population is concerned about. teleporade implemented in primary health care. I am talking about basic health care because it is mainly in the POZ that it is possible to implement these benefits at a distance, precisely within the framework of the basket requirements. So that as far as specialist is concerned, these were some temporary solutions adopted on COVID time, but they are only at the level of the National Health Fund guidelines. As regards the fully regulated issue of distance benefits, it only applies to basic health care, with 2 exceptions. As for the question about a particular billing product, I am very sorry, but I do not have all these products in my head. You also asked in general, as I understand it, about the valuation of specialized benefits. They were also covered by this 3-percent increase in COVID. And you also asked how the resolution we are discussing today will affect the situation in the fall. In particular, this 3-percent increase we have been talking about is carried out on the basis of a recommendation from the Minister of Health issued to the President of the National Health Fund. Thus, the deletion, in accordance with the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office, of this point will mean that it will not be possible to transfer these additional funds from the beginning of September. It will be the same for other elements, e.g. Under the same provision, the possibility of continuing to operate single-name hospitals in the current form, the possibility of paying supplements to doctors who do not choose to work in many places, will only work in one because they work with COVID patients... It is also about many other commands of the Minister of Health, as well as many other solutions, which include: With changes in the education system, young doctors will be able to enter the labour market sooner than ever before. This will also help to solve the problem of the fact that there was no organizational possibility of conducting, as usual, specialization exams. As for the question... Sorry, I lost track. As for the senator's question... But no, I think I've exhausted... Unless the senator wants to fill in some more...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u80	Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Thank you.]] Asks the question of Senator Władysław Komarnicki It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u81	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to repeat the question. And that's why, Minister, I'm sending them to you because Senator rapporteur. She was right to send me to you. I find that this is a very important question and people interested in health care are waiting... Namely, I would like to repeat: if you assume as a ministry that the National Health Fund is unnecessary... Of course, Minister, this may be the right thing to do, but, as it was said before, when are you going to start a discussion on the shape of health protection in Poland and in which direction will this be going? Because I imagine that the debate about the whole nation should sound and be clear enough for anyone who is sick or miserable to know how he will be taken care of. I would like to ask you what is the situation after our president's declaration, which, before the election, promised 3 billion PLN, which would serve children, oncology and coronavirus, and 6 billion PLN for the National Oncology Strategy. As if you'd be kind enough to bring me closer to you when that money comes in, from what position, I'd be obliged to you. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u82	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. Because a question has been asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u83	Of course. Good. Well, maybe this time I'll start from the end. You asked the senator about the fate of the projects you announced to President Andrzej Duda. The first question is the National Oncology Strategy. The resolution of the Council of Ministers was adopted in 2019 as long as my memory doesn't confuse me. And as part of that, the so-called. the first Polish cancel plan. This plan was presented in accordance with the resolution of the Council of Ministers and was adopted last year. It seems to me that the amount that the senator cites, 6 billion zlotys, is the amount that was allocated to this purpose under this resolution of the Council of Ministers. This is a multi-annual programme that will be operational for 10 years. So that these funds will be allocated in specific annual budgets at that time. And as far as the declaration on the Medical Fund is concerned, here actually the senator is right, because this amount of PLN 3 billion, unfortunately, will not materialize, because it has been decided that the value of this fund will be PLN 4 billion per year. And in that amount, these funds will be allocated. As you rightly pointed out, there will be resources there, among others. it is for unlimited treatment of children, there will be funds for modern medicines, there will also funds for investment, both for leading centres and for smaller county hospitals, who will want to ask for money to carry out restructuring, profile or adapt infrastructure to the nature of their activities. The question began with whether there would be a discussion in Poland, such a debate on the shape of the health system. Well, Dear Senator, in the years 2018 and 2019 under the patronage of Professor Łukasz Szumowski, Minister of Health, there was a national debate on health together. It was a series of events that took place in several cities throughout Poland. More than a hundred experts were involved, if I'm not mistaken, who were just discussing what a health care system should look like in the coming years. The results of this work were collected in such a summary report. And the conclusions of this report are systematically implemented by the Ministry of Health and the National Health Fund. You also pointed out that in the bill we're talking about, we're trying to liquidate the National Health Fund. Well, you can't agree with that. This is, you can say, a completely opposite direction, because we are talking here about important organisational support for the functioning of the National Health Fund. And this is what I consider to be the law at issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u84	Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj's questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u85	Mr. Marshal, Minister, one last question. I must say that, of course, we differ in our approach to many things here, but I am curious to hear and understand the logic of the Minister in connection with all the events that may happen with the coronavirus. Of course, we may disagree. What you believe to be about the production of voting cards is connected to the coronavirus, and I can look the other way. I'd like to ask the Minister something. 'Cause actually, following that lead, you could conclude that if we go to Mars, we're gonna fight the coronavirus, too, because he's not there. But I'm asking you quite seriously, Minister. Tell me... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Surely the senator doesn't want to launch me into space?]] No, no. God forbid! You're responsible for what you started. You must take responsibility for all this, Minister. In fact, you once said in an interview that you were responsible. So don't be surprised at our questions. I think they explain a lot of things. Short question: Minister Once again, I would like to hear how, according to your logic, verticalisation, i.e. complete centralisation, of the NFZ, is linked to the fight against the epidemic. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: I am translating.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u86	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u87	As many times in this series of questions and answers fell... Every time we talk about money in the health system, the National Health Fund appears, because it is he who has the resources. Changes in the functioning of the National Health Fund are a further continuation of the implementation of the NFZ strategy, which was planned for the beginning of this year. Due to the epidemic, certain measures have been postponed. The very important circumstance I would like to mention is that, on behalf of the Law and Justice Club, amendments have been tabled during today's debate, which in some ways provide for a reduction of the changes that the Senator is talking about. There have been doubts, and in my view some of these doubts deserve to be taken into account. Therefore, in order to make it clear that what we're talking about from the very beginning is something that the senator put together when he said that verticalization equals centralization... Well, in my opinion, it's an unauthorized comparison. Pionization is intended to ensure that the institution operates in a uniform manner in all aspects of its operation, regardless of which region it is concerned, while centralization is indeed a very bad association in Poland of the word "central," planned, in the wrong sense of the word, management. It's about managing everything from behind a desk in Warsaw. We absolutely do not want to lead to this situation, hence the package of amendments that clarify our intentions. I do not hide the fact that I am very much counting on the support of the entire House. I understand the doubts that arise, but I think that this package of amendments is an important solution to them. To get to the bottom of the senator's question about how this relates to the epidemic situation, I'm going to say that it's fundamental, because it's the efficiency of the National Health Fund that depends on how well we can manage the transfer of funds to combat the epidemic. When it turned out that, in line with the demands made by the States representing the Civic Coalition, that is, the requests for additions to medical personnel... There was no need for a bill here. ♪ We're gonna ♪ We have implemented the order of the President of the National Health Fund. This has made it possible for us to make the management of these measures much more flexible and, consequently, to make such measures really possible. I do not hide that we have analyzed different concepts, including a concept that was originally intended to be the seed of a rule that we wanted to actually add to one of the laws, but the final concept turned out to be fundamentally different from them. Commands implemented very effectively by the National Health Fund... These are tens of millions of zlotys that went to thousands of health care workers. And it was through efficiency that we managed to achieve this goal through the possibility of working together in this formula. That's just an example. The NFZ has carried out many of these tasks and has done very well, in my view. [[I only have one quick question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u88	There you go, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj Okay, let's do it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u89	Minister, as I understand it, what concerns issues related to, say, the NFZ will serve better management According to the same rules, standards throughout the country. Of course, the department minister will decide on this. Is Mr. Prime Minister Depending on the gravity of the case. And these standards will be as functional standards in all voivodships. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u90	That is exactly the purpose of this pionization.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u91	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u92	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd go back to art. 22, this, let's call it, disputed, i.e. in this room quoted as a contentious one. I think it's right, but in order for it to work, it has to be formulated effectively. Well, if you have the text of this article in front of you, you'll notice that he's talking about the entities that executed the order of the President of the Council of Ministers... I'll skip it a little bit, but then I'll tell you why. And further: issued on the basis of... Here are the legal bases: Art. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2, Article Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the bill indicated, etc. And this holds together, but earlier it is written, as far as this order is concerned, so: directly related to the holding of the general elections for the President of the Republic of Poland ordered in 2020.. It is obvious, but then there is a note: with the possibility of voting in correspondence. Well, the election on May 10 wasn't an election with the ability to vote in correspondence, it was totally... Art. The second act, which was subsequently repealed, states: it will only be carried out by means of a correspondence vote. This unnecessary addition may give rise to interpretational doubts. The text previously quoted, i.e. this legal basis and information on what choices it is about "Organised in 2020" I think that's enough. The addition with the possibility to vote in correspondence may cause the opposite effect • that there will then be problems proving that it is the election of 10 May. They were not able to vote in correspondence only in correspondence. Should not such an amendment be tabled in order to delete this part of the provision?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u93	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u94	Dear Senator, I must say that as far as this point is concerned, this is where the content of these acts should be read in detail. It is worth pointing out that this reference concerns the Law of 2 June. I have to admit, this really should be analyzed here... Well, it's hard for me to do that when I'm on the stand.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u95	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. Is Senator Władysław Komarnicki asking questions? No. Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: Mr. Marshal, could you please take a three-minute break so that you can dispel the senator's doubts? In order for the content of such an amendment to be possible...]] Minister, there will be a discussion, and during the discussion... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: I understand, okay.]] Amendments can be tabled by the end of the discussion. So you'll have no problem consulting yourself. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to the questions asked by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz and Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. The discussion is closed... Oh, no, of course I'm opening the discussion. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm opening a discussion. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This bill was expected by the medical community, by the medical staff, by the patients. From the very beginning of the epidemic we have all been waiting for the so-called. a shield for health protection. Title to which this Act has been given It is a law to amend certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection, and it has given us the hope that we will talk not so much about the past as about the future. I think everyone knows exactly what the health situation is. The chaos that accompanied the beginning of the epidemic does not subside at all. At the moment, COVID hospitals are being converted back into ordinary hospitals, a normal range of services is being restored there, but that doesn't make the system organized at all. Patients still have problems with access to health care, medical advice and sometimes even POZ. The POZ door is very often closed because only telemedical advice is provided. Rather, we expected to be discussing concrete solutions here, what awaits us. And we know that the coming autumn and the endless epidemic increase the health risk. Unfortunately, hospital directors and medical personnel say that hospitals are not adapted, are not prepared for these new challenges, that there are no procedures and no way to deal with patients with chronic diseases is known. Well, we're not just treating Coronavirus or infectious diseases. This law should be devoted above all to such subjects, but this is not in this law, ladies and gentlemen. The Minister of Health says that a few days ago he set up a team of experts and that this team will only prepare such a strategy. Well, in my opinion, such a strategy should have been prepared at least a month ago. Of course, depending on the evolution of the epidemic, depending on the epidemic rates, we should choose a plan. A or plan B. So we already know, ladies and gentlemen, what is not in the bill. There is nothing that would ensure a smooth response to the development of an epidemic, an increased incidence. There's nothing to clean up the health system. What's wrong? So first of all, it is what sounded in this room for 2 hours, i.e. compensation for Polish Post, compensation completely unrelated to health protection, which is intended to cover the costs of printing electoral packages, so-called. Mr Sasin's packages. The only question is whether this is a proper bill. Should we, as the Health Committee, be dealing with such a subject? There were also questions about the famous art. 22 and 43, under which funds will be distributed to cover the purchase or distribution of personal protective equipment. Whether such topics should appear at the meetings of the Committee on Health is very questionable, especially since the Minister has not answered us specifically, which entities will receive compensation and to what extent. So we're supposed to give permission to spend public money, but we don't really know how much money we're spending, and who we're spending it for. This is the clou of this whole bill, which is what all this debate has been about today. But there are a few other things to talk about. In addition to this famous spending of public money to cover expenditure related to the electoral package, there is also a very interesting package which appeared through the parliamentary amendment, because I remind you that the bill is government. It concerns a very important, systemic solution, changes in the National Health Fund, so-called. centralization or verticalisation. But it's not just an organisational issue, it's also a matter of distribution of resources. And here is another question: why are we talking about a very important systemic solution through the amendments, which are not constitutional, which have been tabled by Members? Are we now talking about epidemics, epidemic problems, or are we now going to solve your problem with the organisation of the National Health Fund system? I'm just reminding you that one of PiS's electoral promises was to liquidate the National Health Fund. Please pay attention to the circle of country: initially you say that the National Health Fund does not meet the expectations and it needs to be eliminated, and now there is a verticalisation. Why? It is about more power, it is about making decisions again only in Warsaw, so that decisions are in one hand and perhaps also about manually controlling funds. It all gives rise to great fears, all the more so that, as we remember... Those who are related to health care will surely remember the beginnings of insurance. At that time, it was said that money was created to serve patients so that as a payer, they could buy the best service and provide health and be as far away from politics as possible. What you are proposing now is an absolute return to what we wanted to leave. The idea of monopolizing the National Health Fund from the beginning is absolutely wrong, and now it is being further deepened. And this is the second issue that appears in this law unconstitutionally introduced. This bill contains a number of articles... And today the Minister still says that this amendment, which has been introduced in an unconstitutional way, will add further amendments to the PiS. So you yourself have answered the question of how legal, legislative all of this is being examined and adopted. I would like to draw attention to another important issue that has not come out here and which is equally important. Well, one of the proposals contained in this law is the elimination of drug programs. It might seem that it does not necessarily have to be programmes, it can be ensured otherwise, and the Minister assured yesterday at the committee meeting that it would be refunded. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. But there are the concerns of those who are already in these programs, and these are the voices that come out: "Well, then it depends on when I'm going to enter the drug program and if I'm sure I'm going to have the medications that I'm getting from the drug program now?" And why is it so dangerous, ladies and gentlemen? E.g. because the Ministry of Finance has prepared a proposal for a reduction of 1 billion financial resources for the reimbursement of medicines. And if we reduce the refund money and eliminate drug programs that will no longer guarantee those drugs to cancer patients with rare diseases. There is a great danger, however, that there will be shortcomings. Let's not be surprised about the patients. Patients are having trouble getting to a doctor, to a specialist clinic, to a dentist, as I said, very often also to a family doctor. And they call us all the time, they send out signals that this system, which is right now, and this organization absolutely, absolutely won't pass the exam in the fall. This is also said by doctors and medical staff themselves: they do not know the procedures, that they do not know how to take patients with chronic disease. And these are the tasks that we should be dealing with and which law should regulate. I will ignore the fact that there is no basic solution referred to in the title itself, that we lack a strategy, that there is a non-constitutional solution. In addition, it also turns out that there is a contradiction between the various articles. That is why we have great doubts and from the beginning we have had whether we should adopt this law at all. But since there have been a few minor detailed provisions, some really important, some less significant ones, which concern those 16 different laws, which could also be amended separately, we have decided to adopt amendments and adopt a law which, in fact, for the Health Committee, according to the title, is simply embarrassing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u98	Mr. Marshal, I'm glad I did it myself, because last time I performed... [[Last time we had a pretty big exchange, let's call it that.]] Minister! High Izbo! There is a problem in general regarding the way the Law and Justice dealt with various laws. And this way of proceding, this unconstitutional one, which allows for the failure of all legislative stages, leads to errors which later avenge in such a way that it is necessary once again either to make dozens of amendments on an ongoing basis, or to write certain things from the beginning. In my previous term of office, when it came to the Supreme Court, I repeatedly drew the attention of the Ministry of Justice to this method of proceding. To some extent It is more understandable that you are acting under the pressure of time. But I would understand if this were to happen in the case of the first or second of these COVID laws. Now, I think, this mess is unfortunately no longer caused only by time. You told the minister that there were some people who didn't actually do anything, and they go on TV and criticize. I understand that you were referring mainly to a colleague from the group, Mr Sosnierz, who is the main critic of the ministry's solutions and actions. Yeah, but sometimes you can say it's a culpable criticism. But also this remark... I don't know how it's gonna end, but as usual, Senator Czerwiński has seen with his insight certain inaccuracies. The reason I'm even speaking is the same inaccuracy, the same mistake. Well, that's exactly the problem for which the Ministry of Justice is more responsible, but since the Ministry of Health is the one who hosted this bill, the Ministry of Justice didn't have much influence on it. This was the case, and some solutions were proposed in the course of the draft amendment act. One concerned the Prison Service, the other concerned the barrister's authorities and the council of legal counsels. That's what I'm talking about. What was right in the assumption? In order for local governments to be able to make changes in the authorities for the entire duration of this epidemic, when there are restrictions. Unfortunately, it was done so badly that it was done exactly the opposite way, i.e. where it was supposed to be not for a fixed period, only for the duration of the restrictions, this possibility was assigned to non-governments, only to the Prison Service, and the 180-day limitation was assigned to these lawyers and local authorities. Therefore, my very small amendment, which restores the original meaning and assumptions of these changes, so that this is consistent with the logic and also in line with the intentions of the Ministry of Justice. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor in the remote mode of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I will speak briefly in this discussion because many threads have already been included in your speech by the President of the Health Committee, Beata Małecka-Libera. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Senator Ewa Matecka, for a very comprehensive, compact summary of the proceedings of our Health Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I was expecting a big show, and I thought that during this post-election period, the government in the form of a health department would really work out and prepare something for us medics who not only work in single-name hospitals, but work daily with patients suspected of COVID, until the diagnosis is made they often work as in single-name hospitals, but they are hardly mentioned at all. We know that we need to treat diseases other than COVID or co-existing with COVID. And here, of course, the Minister continues to emphasize the rank of single-name hospitals. I remember in one of the meetings of the Senate Committee on Health, Deputy Minister Kraska said that only 30% of these units in single-name hospitals were used, and so much financial expenditure was imposed on this. I haven't been informed at all, and I don't have any knowledge right now. Perhaps, at some point, the Minister will respond to this. At what stage are we now and whether these sites have already been eliminated up to 30% of the starting value. I would like to stress here the rank of all first contact doctors, health professionals who work in the SORs, ambulances, emergency rooms. We also work with patients who are infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus and do not receive any financial allowances for this work. It's just a reminder. It was only after a certain digging into the bill that my doubts raised the article. 1, which concerns the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist. I know that now you have to prepare some special solutions so that the specialists who passed the test in the spring session, but could not for various reasons... I don't know what, maybe organizational. Maybe the Medical Examination Center didn't do its job and didn't set up a committee. Well, we could have attended weddings, but the examination boards weren't called. These doctors can't have the title of specialist today because they don't even have anyone to sign their diploma. I know that this is needed and that many young doctors who are already specialists who have passed the test and received different grades may be happy that you will not have to take the oral or practical exam. Well, I've talked to a lot of specialists. We all passed the 2nd stage exam and we want to ensure that the training of medical staff in Poland is still at a high level. I think that this provision is only temporary, that it will not apply for the future, although we do not know exactly how it will be processed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to tell the Minister of Cieszynski that code 89.0099 is medical advice through ICT and communication systems. I think someone like Minister Cieszyński, a representative of the health department, who is fascinated by teleporads, should know that. In general, to conclude my statement, the centralization of the National Health Fund is nothing more than a return to the past. This has nothing to do with what should be happening in Poland. This is not such a change in the health care system that would serve all patients, as well as stop medical staff in Poland. What's going on with the criminal code, with the article. 37a, also will not stop medical staff in Poland. We'll be afraid to do our job. And nurses, and paramedics, and doctors will be so restricted by this record that in the near future medical studies will no longer be attractive to young people. Maybe this isn't the right place to talk about it. We as senators of the democratic majority will certainly deal with this at a separate point. This is a very important topic and we will debate this in the near future. This may sound a little sarcastic, maybe a little nasty, but I would like to thank you for that, because it will certainly affect the training of medical staff in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor, including in remote mode, Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u102	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, as President Beata Małecka-Libera said, the title is the best in this bill. It is a pity that it does not correspond to the content of this law. Well, the title actually went very well. It's a pity that the bill doesn't solve the problems that it so nicely points out in this title. There was indeed no discussion at the Health Committee on these elections that had not taken place. It's something that wasn't and that we're supposed to finance with real money. Don't be surprised, because this isn't a topic for the Health Committee, it's not a topic for people who are working to help patients rebuild our health system. Well, unfortunately, that's the subject in this bill. I am not surprised at the criticism of such a solution, the criticism that has been taken by actually all senators. We can't deal with elections in the COVID Act, any elections. I'm not talking about the ones that didn't happen. I'm talking about any choices. Well, it's a little embarrassing. I think the Minister must be surprised at what he must present to us here today. Yeah, but that's okay. There's nothing in this bill about the extension of hospitals, the real assessment of health benefits, there's nothing about the liquidation of queues. There's nothing about what affects patients the most. There's nothing about limits that should be lifted long ago. This bill doesn't talk about it, even though it's supposed to talk about what's going to happen after the COVID, about fixing this wasted time. Those surgeries that didn't take place, those procedures that weren't performed, that no admissions to hospitals, for various reasons. There's nothing about it here, it doesn't arouse the interest of the ministry, which I'm very surprised about myself. The Minister's answer to my question is that it will extend the time when a contract or a lump sum can be executed... That's not the point. Hospitals are so much behind, it's not like they're ever gonna make up for it. Anyway, they can't make up for it, for all sorts of reasons. Castro, locally, they can't...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u103	Excuse me, Mr. Senator, but I have a feeling we have a technical problem with your contact. Even at this point, You've vanished, which was a very visually unpleasant moment, because you just disappeared, and before that... [[I'm here...]] ...we've stopped hearing you, too. This very apocalyptic dimension of our deliberations I would like to sum up somehow. Therefore, I'm going to ask the technical services what the fact that the senator is missing means. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, Mr. Senator, if you can hear us... Well, if you'll excuse me, this kind of... [[I can hear you.]] Oh, that's great. We're glad to hear you're in good health. Well, you seem to be able to continue your speech, even though we are deprived of the pleasure of seeing you. Are you willing to continue your statement with the knowledge that you are not visible? [[Of course. Even, maybe, it'll help a little.]] When the senator was kind enough to say those words, visual communication came back, but then it went out. I'll let you leave me alone. I would very much ask you to continue your speech, as I understand it, regardless of the visual effects.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u104	Thank you very much. I see your marshal in a face mask. I'll continue. I don't know when the voice died, but I'm getting back to the important stuff. The Minister calls for constructive solutions. Well, there is a constructive solution to a case that this law does not take, that is, what will happen next month, in 2, 3 months. We're gonna have a crowd of patients. There will be a flu epidemic and an SARS-CoV-2 epidemic at the same time. We're not preparing for this. An expert group has been set up to debate, but we don't know what it is. It is a pity that the Minister has not just presented to us what the solutions are to be. I'll give the answer because you have to be constructive. Well, at the moment, a study for Coronavirus is expected to be conducted for 5 and 7 hours. We can't continue to use such a method that patients suspected of coronavirus report to the E.R. to the E.R. The POZ facilities must be operational. Tests must be carried out in POZ facilities, where there must be test points. These tests must be carried out quickly. POZ establishments must receive results, patients with flu-like symptoms should be dealt with in these establishments, not directed to the SOR, where there will be 200 and 300 patients a day with symptoms of infection. Take care of it. Take care of the real problem, what's about to happen. Yes, to prevent a complete distribution of the system, which unfortunately can happen to us soon, in October, November. The Minister's betting on teleports. Of course, teleports are a solution, but I do not understand why at the same time such draconian punishments are introduced for doctors, nurses, paramedics, as in the infamous article. 37a. Like the Minister himself. Is that what he's imagining? If the patient returns by phone and tells his family doctor that he has a fever, has a headache, has a cough, breaks him in his bones, how will this doctor help him by telephone? After all, this doctor will direct him to the S.R. if he is unable to perform a test in his P.O.P., or an emergency room, or a health center, and direct him to a place where there will be a terrible crowd, where there will be people with all the diseases. And if he doesn't direct it, and it turns out to be a coronavirus, then he's gonna answer the article. 37a for involuntary injury, medical error, and going to jail. This paragraph, this article must be removed from Polish legislation as soon as possible. This was served by the amendment that was discussed at the Health Committee meeting. We need to act as soon as possible, because we don't have time, we don't have time, the autumn-winter season is coming, and really long-term debate is not advisable. I hope that the Minister will reflect on this and perhaps the government will make an amendment to remove the article. 37a from the Penal Code, because punishing doctors in the age of the Cortipinus epidemic when they make such difficult decisions and do not have the ability to accept as many patients as they will require... This is the square of the circle. It can't be solved. You have to think about either one or the other. If it's teleports, it's not art. 37a. Unfortunately, it is necessary to approach this responsibly, not so that every ministry realizes some ideas about how to treat people, how to be responsible for mistakes, etc., etc. If we fail to make such an amendment at this meeting, I would really suggest that we deal with this as soon as possible, because teleports with such a high risk of error will not be effective. It won't work, no matter what the experts say or what decisions they make about it. As for the admiration of the Minister for Teleforady and the fact that the percentage of patients who are satisfied is so high that it is good, but I must say that if we conduct a survey on whether the patient can write his own medicine without a doctor's visit, possibly order a medical examination, then the degree of satisfaction of patients with such a solution would be 99%. So maybe we shouldn't go this way and apply medicine as a science, as something that's refined, which is thought out, and just let these legal solutions that we're introducing go in that direction. Unfortunately, there are few such solutions in this law, although some are and probably require support. Thank you very much. I hope that this reflection on the combination of teleporad and criminal liability in the form of prison will somehow remain in the memory of the Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator, for the speech accompanied by technical problems, but they have been overcome. Now, please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, many words have been said in this discussion, many topics have been raised, many suggestions, including those that went beyond the matter of this law. But I will remind you, Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, the title of this law, which contains the words "in order to ensure the functioning of health protection in connection with and after the outbreak of COVID-19. As this law is read, Minister, it can be said that there are certain passages that fit into this title and scope of this law, but in general it is a collection of certain small things that, from the point of view of the functioning of the whole system, can and are more or less important... The Minister praised here teleporades, telemedicine, all that is connected with the whole support system. But, Minister, you have said some very important sentences, and I want you to listen to our discussion, and the idea is that the true virtue of the critic is not afraid. And I think that's how you're gonna feel about it. Because, as Senator Pociej said, the greatest critic who says that you have no idea what is going on in the fight against the coronavirus is mentioned here by a Member of the United Right. You said, Minister, that the government of the United Right is 100% Precise, and the Prime Minister has the courage to make important decisions. Minister, I'm just gonna remind you so briefly of this 100 percent precision. Even in March, when we brought up the issue of discussion about the outbreak that was born in the world and in Europe, the Senators of Law and Justice said 'Polish people, nothing happened!' and they voted against such a debate. And what exactly did Minister Pinkas say? Well, listen, if you want to know what a coronavirus is, ask your grandmothers how you treat the flu. Tea, lemon... It was like this and other comparisons. Well, if that's what precision is, then... Of course, this precision has changed during the development of the entire epidemic, with a point of view, but at first you were like children in fog. Now, a few words. As for the courage of the Prime Minister. Minister, this isn't about being brave. Well, can you call it courage that the Prime Minister says, go bravely to the elections, the coronavirus no longer functions, next summer, so the flu and the coronavirus are the reverse? Is that the courage? No, it's kind of perfidious. And that is why, Minister, when it comes to precision and courage, in order to prepare what is contained in the title of the Act, we need to prepare a strategy for today, but above all for tomorrow. What will be the elements of the action when it comes to the fight against Coronavirus or the functioning of the Polish state after the Koravirus. And you make such small movements on the basis: aha, something needs to be evened out there, something to pay there, and we are actually brave and precise, so we will pay Polish Post. And there's another way to say it: but wait a minute, we remember there's someone still waiting in line. And that's the precision of it. The Minister himself probably noticed this in the course of the debate. That those who received an order from the Polish government to fight the coronavirus, because it was practically an order, can submit applications. But, Minister, in such cases the bill is constructed in a precise manner, many of the topics that have been addressed here should be broken down, e.g. for several sections, there should be several elements concerning laws that resolve issues in a strategic way. Like you said, we're centralizing the NFZ to issue orders according to one procedure, according to one system. ♪ As I can add here ♪ In Poland as a whole. Minister, at the time of the epidemic, the state of the natural disaster is declared, and that is throughout the country, if the whole country is concerned, and one procedure is followed. And the thing about normal functioning is... Neither this law, nor what you are doing, solves the problem in a comprehensive and only fragmented way, and it is still fragmented, taking into account various interests. I'm sure it's the least about what's going to happen to the patient, what's the benefit of the patient's ideas. Now that we're talking about how the title of this bill is associated with the outbreak of coronavirus, then... Minister, there have already been some examples of this in the debate. Well, how do we link the epidemic to the sugar tax? After all, taxes are lower during the epidemic. Of course, it can be combined as the Minister has made it very beautifully. And after all, as I said, it can be combined so that for example. The flight to Mars will reduce the number of cases of coritos, which is why we will be funding research related to the flight to Mars. I therefore propose, Minister, that you, as part of your courage and precision, work hard, with a large participation of experts, people who know the field, to open yourselves to discussion. Because there are no people who know the solutions in all areas and in all matters And you would create a strategic programme for Poland as regards today, but also about what Poland will look like after the coronavirus. The case is very serious, very important and therefore it cannot be such individual and fragmented decisions as it is in this law. Minister, this is neither courage nor precision. The draft law solves minor issues Which are definitely important, because Polish Post is waiting for money, Orlen and others are waiting for it too, maybe there are others But Poles expect comprehensive action. As representatives of the medical world have said here, senators, who are doctors, need solutions, actions, support and functioning throughout the system. And while we're talking about the fact that entities can apply for reimbursement... After all, here should be a system of distribution of such money or a system of outsourcing, so that it is clearly defined how all this is done, whether it is included in the law or in the regulation. Let's not do it the way it is in this bill. The amendments we make as the Civic Coalition and those that we believe should not be included in the bill... We will vote in favour of the bill. Despite all the shortcomings that we are mentioning here today, we will vote in favour of the bill. I hope so. But the elements we've been talking about here, we're gonna want to get rid of this bill. And please, even I urge: Minister, approach in a precise, accurate, courageous way to comprehensive problem solving, a comprehensive definition of goals, tasks, how all of this will work instead of dealing with the individual issues that are included in this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'll start with what Senator Czarnobaj ended up with, I mean. from the need to develop a comprehensive programme, especially in the context of what is being planned for us. The doctors of epidemiologists are alarming that this isn't even about the second wave, because we see more or less, we know what it all looks like, just about the second wave coming into contact with the epidemic of ordinary flu. This can have very serious consequences. So that such a plan, such a program is needed. It should be widely discussed with the environment, not announced ex cathedra. First of all, it should be publicly presented, because it will also involve restrictions and certain obligations for citizens. But what's there to say about the program if you've been breaking your own law for the last three years? In the Health Benefits Act after the strike, you wrote down how much health expenditure should be as a percentage of gross domestic product, and year after year you did not implement this law. I must say that I am surprised that Minister Szumowski, responsible for these matters, which notabene negotiated with residents and signed an agreement, which was a success at the time, was a good solution, and then introduced the relevant percentages into the law, the government accepted the budget and the arrangements that broke the rule on these indicators each year. In 2018, 6 billion PLN was missing, in 2019 11 billion PLN was missing, and in 2020, of course, according to the plan, because the situation is different today, 12 billion PLN was missing. Minister, you're shaking your head. I know why you're shaking your head. Because you deceived residents and deceived citizens because you suddenly explained to them that all these indicators refer to the 2017 gross domestic product. [[Talking in the O.R.]] There was no such thing in this agreement, and there is no such thing in the bill. This is case one. Case number two. I'm moving on to this bill now. I was interested in the contributions that concern the transfer of money to companies, to the Post Office and probably to KGHM Although this is not clearly written, among those who followed orders is among others. KGHM and obtain compensation from such or other public funds. I have already wondered how it is that a large country in the middle of Europe, supposedly a proud country, with many ministers, even more vice ministers, officials, agencies, etc., must order the purchase of masks to the Combinat Górniczo-Hutnicze Miedzi, who, as you know, does nothing else, but specializes in shopping, production and distribution of masks. Probably there were other entities. I wonder where that came from. Well, I put it this way, Minister, that it came from the fact that the responsibility for decisions should be removed from each other as much as possible. Because KGHM made a decision. We know that this decision was partly fatal, and we know that some of the equipment he brought in wasn't... Yes, the note bene, the anton who brought about 3 tirrs of equipment, was greeted by the Prime Minister himself. I have to say, it was... I don't know if Minister Szumowski was there either. Anyway, it was an embarrassing spectacle, well, it's just like in some country where a big plane wasn't seen. And it was this shifting responsibility from one another that resulted in such results. And to prove that, it was also in one of the shields. And Minister Cieszyński knows perfectly well in which, because we talked about it here, here, here we talked about it. Namely, it is about this famous recipe, which relieves officials of consequences for wrong decisions, negligence, lack of competence, etc. I'm not talking about corruption because it's a normal crime. Well, this provision, Minister, has been severely criticised by us here. We have tabled an amendment deleting this provision. Of course, the Seym brought him back. But I remember our conversation, Minister. We asked how this recipe could be inserted. And you explained that the point was that the situation is tense, people have to make decisions quickly, and if they make a wrong decision somewhere, unintentionally, etc., so that they don't get dragged around courts, by prosecutors, etc. etc. And that's what this recipe is all about. I remember, Minister, that I said then: you know what, there's something about what you're saying, and then maybe I'd try to convince you not to delete that rule. But the condition is that once a month the Minister of Health will be at the Health Committee's meeting presenting information about what was bought, who was bought from, how much was bought and so on. The answer was no. About the same time that law was pushed by the states And by you personally, Mr. Minister, a famous purchase was made from a ski instructor. So I must say that all this activity in this area simply shows that the government does not want to take responsibility for what it does. But they will be very willing to hold health workers responsible. It's a famous art. 37a of the criminal code, which is so criticised today and so feared by health professionals, is exactly the opposite of the one that concerns officials. As for the officials, it is said: well, you're wrong, that's fine, you haven't paid attention, you've neglected, you'll be absolved. In the case of health professionals it's exactly the opposite: it happened, maybe you got it wrong, it's hard to say, in any case, somehow it was justified. However, you will have consequences, and in any case there is a serious risk of such consequences. I wonder how it is possible that the health ministry, the Minister of Health, the Deputy Minister of Health took such care of the officials and did not take care of the workers who are in a sense under their responsibility. And they just put them on fire. Because it was Mr. Ziobra's idea, and I have no doubt about it, the minister known to be chasing doctors, and one of them has been chasing doctors for 20 years. And how is it possible that the health department allowed this kind of recipe to slip away so that such a provision could be included in the laws. All I can say at the end is that you should be ashamed of it, and I hope you still have some sense of shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of the marshal, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Well, we've got another COVID bill and another repeat of all the things we've criticised in previous laws. The bill, which was to deal with COVID, health care, again included things that should not appear in this law, because they have nothing to do with COVID. Yeah, well, it's got to do with COVID's art. 22 of this law, which provides to cover the costs spent by the institutions in order to prepare the elections which were not held on 10 May this year in connection with the Prime Minister's regulation? 78 million, about 78 million spent Post office for packaging and storage of electoral packages, i.e. the creation of these electoral packages. I haven't seen the costs of other companies lately. I asked the Minister, the Minister said that, of course, full information, all knowledge was given by the Minister of Electronic Communications. But it's a government bill, the minister runs that bill. For each law, the costs of this law should be indicated, the costs it generates. I have the impression that the Minister doesn't want to answer that he's covering himself with rules, very general. Well, then it should be someone else's. So there is a law that is not counted at this point. The rule of law work is that it is necessary to present the costs which the law incurs. And that's the cost, isn't it? If not in writing, then in answer to the question. Thus, 78 million Polish Post, Deputy Prime Minister Sasin ordered this under the Morawiecki Prime Minister's regulation, and 4.5 million National Security Printing Works. There's just one more problem out there. Well, Minister Mariusz Kaminski didn't order PWPW and didn't make a deal with this label, so on what basis will the compensation be paid? But after all, this company of the Treasury has incurred real costs. Except it's not just a refund problem. The problem is that these costs were incurred and the decisions were implemented prior to the entry into force of the Act on the election of 10 May. There was no legal basis. And if there was no legal basis, then the question is: how do we create a law? In such a way that all the costs that have been incurred are recorded, and... so this law is formulated. Did any other companies cost money? We don't know. I asked, but the Minister didn't give me an answer. I suspect that such costs could also be elsewhere. I know the government has nothing to brag about. Prime Minister Morawiecki made his decision when there was no bill. It was an illegal decision, and now we have to get out of it. It won't be that easy, because no matter how it's classified, the responsibility for unlawful decisions will still exist. She's not gonna disappear. We're gonna get back to that. You can rely on extraordinary circumstances, they are of course to be taken into account, but we will not be taking them into account in the future, only those bodies that will settle these matters and will consider this situation. This is another one of those tests. The solutions needed, such as we accept, are added to solutions that are unacceptable. We point out various difficult solutions, and the Minister is responsible: if you do not accept this, there will be no increase for health care, there will be no 3% increase in health expenditure. That's how you build the rules. It's basically some kind of blackmail. That's another COVID bill. You changed the law in the COVID laws, which concerns completely different areas, and you introduced different solutions in shortcuts. What are the consequences? I was approached by a young woman who went on maternity leave after the first COVID Act. It turned out that she lost 2,000 300 zlotys a month. Not a year, just a month. 20% reduction in pay, which we agreed to, but it was not excluded from the women who had gone on maternity leave at that time. The average before this law included various types of bonuses. After the bill was introduced, it's only 80%. Pay, pay. Why did this happen? Because in a hurry, in a way that prevented us, including here in the Senate, from analyzing the situation... We didn't catch it, but the government or the minister didn't think of it either. And that's what the Sejm and the Senate are for, so you can fish that kind of kiks out. And now a whole group of women who had been on maternity leave during that time lost from several hundred to several thousand zlotys a month. These are the results of rushing and rushing the Senate. We make the COVID laws and then we rush: quickly, quickly, quickly, immediately! Because everyone's waiting. That's not the way to make the law. It is impossible to establish a law by inserting solutions from completely different areas into a law that covers one area. That's why it's not like that, Minister, that we don't want to support the government... [[Time, Mr. Marshal.]] ...in the fight against this situation, the situation is getting worse and worse. But you can't do that. Throw something in COVID's act quickly or throw something that has nothing to do with COVID.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u111	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'll admit, I was provoked by one of the sentences made by Mr. Marshal Borusewicz. But this narrative is common in the speeches of Members and Senators from the other side of the room. And I'd like to give you a few facts that will clearly separate literary fiction from reality. The first point, fundamental: would the action that was taken in the fight against the pandemic, and related to the elections, the actual action, have a legal basis? I'll remind you here that in the article. 22 of this law are specifically given 2 articles Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 and Article 2 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers They have the following sounds... I'll leave things out of the way. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2: The President of the Council of Ministers may, in connection with the anti-COVID-19, issue orders to the entities and entrepreneurs in force. So the President of the Council of Ministers, in connection with the anti-COVID, can give orders to entrepreneurs. After this article has been amended, paragraph 1. 3 was worded as follows: The President of the Council of Ministers may, on his own initiative, issue instructions to the entities in force, previously indicated, i.e. in paragraph 1. 2, this is the businessman. And in the mouth. 4 we read: the instructions referred to above are issued in connection with the anti-COVID-19. And now the very simple question is: did this election marathon, which began on February 5th and ended really on August 3rd by a resolution of the Supreme Court... Did the legal and, above all, the actual actions taken at that time have a legal basis? I've quoted these articles for you. All this was done to counter the COVID-19, so that in preparation for the vote, the vote and the count of votes alone, this virus would not simply spread. There's a factual basis, there's a legal basis. If you say otherwise, then we live in some other reality. And there's one more thing that needs to be said. The participation of the various sides of the political scene in this semi-annual electoral process was fundamentally different. The elections were written out on the basis of the electoral code in the form before the date of publication, which took place on 5 February. Well, no one's ever thought or even heard of a coronavirus, or at least its effects. I would like to remind you that in Poland it appeared only at the beginning of March, probably 6 matca, i.e. a month later. Then one side of the political scene did everything to ensure that the elections were held in accordance with the constitution, i.e. within a certain time frame. That was the first limitation. Well, maybe not a restriction, but a requirement. The second requirement was that they should be carried out without endangering citizens' health and sometimes their lives, precisely in connection with the occurrence of COVID-19. There were actually four regimes here. This original regime was in force when the elections were drawn up. The next one concerned mainly correspondence choices, their scope, mode, etc. Another regime is to allow correspondence voting in groups with increased risks, so that it includes not only disabled people who could already vote in correspondence but also those over the age of 60. I'm still talking about mode, let's call it an old code, but with an extended subject range. What happened then? Well, the other part of the political scene sensed a chance to change its candidate who was depressing in the polls. This was sought in various ways, but the most perfidious way that we do not talk about was simply to block the possibility of setting up a regional election committee, without which the elections could not really take place. I'm also talking about this old mode with an extended scope of correspondence voting. Well, I'll read the PKW data. Andrzej Duda's election committee submitted 33,000 103 candidates to the regional committee. That's exactly the figure of the person. And let me remind you, there's 27 grand in the circuit board. The Committee of Mr Krzysztof Bosak has submitted 12 thousand candidates, the committee of Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza 9 000, the committee of Mr Robert Biedron 9 000, and the committee of the candidate which failed to prove itself 379 candidates, or 1% , just over 1%. The question is: who is responsible for the election not being held on the original date of May 10? I am no longer talking about the fact that the chase started, that the psyche of Poles was influenced, and it was very simple methods. Here, on this platform, they were talking about famous deadly envelopes. You touch any paper, you'll be electrocuted. Ladies and gentlemen, these elections could not have taken place in this old mode with the extended scope of correspondence voting. Because of the facts, based on this legal basis, which I was just talking about here, we decided to conduct completely correspondence elections so as to protect Poles from visiting the polls. And then what? Well, that's when most of the High House was against it. Instead of considering the bill as soon as possible and protecting Poles, we considered it for 30 days so that these elections would not be made difficult enough to organize them so that it would simply be impossible. Finally, as a curiosity, we passed this law in the twenty-nineth of our 30 days, and the marshal kept it for one more day, so that it would not be until the thirty day. That's the best you could do in quotes. Send this bill to the Sejm. And there could be no fully correspondence elections, the third regime. We return to the regime, I would call it, perhaps in the existing part, but for all, namely for all those willing, correspondence choices are possible. Well, not in constitutional terms anymore, because this was not possible directly. It was that fourth regime and the elections took place. Incidentally, they were also questioned, because there was a complex electoral protest. In addition, these elections in full correspondence mode, i.e. on May 10th, did not take place by countering e.g. some city presidents associated with the other side of the political scene. It's not only not to keep the electoral census, but it's so petty that the Post Office was forbidden to issue any ballot boxes to collect votes in front of the polling stations, rent land, that square meter per meter. That's how they fought for a new candidate to show up, a special-needs party was fighting, otherwise it can't be defined. What does it take to make so many articles, I would say, break, of course, under the pretext of fighting the coronavirus and preserving the health of Poles to introduce a new candidate? You did it, it came out like it always was. Notice, this bill actually only summarizes, of course, in this part, the fight against the coronavirus during this long-term six-month electoral process. Who should be rewarded? He who did the law, he who tried to protect the health of Poles and tried to conduct elections in constitutional terms through legal but also factual actions. Who should be blamed? Well, those who blocked in every possible way. I mentioned a few here, let me remind you: deadly envelopes, the fact that the candidates were not put on the circuit boards, the fact that the electoral lists were not presented to the appropriate institution, the fact that there was no lease of land on the ballot boxes. So what? And these people, these people, these institutions, these bodies, they're not banished, or this political formation. Think about it. It was you who first led to the election. - No, of course, including the coronavirus. It was not carried out within the constitutional time limit. Let us clean up after this act, after your work. There's no other way than to get it over with. The election alone is clear, it can no longer be touched, even though you have tried in various ways. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u113	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Leszek Czarnobaj. In what mode? [[Five minutes.]] Oh, five minutes. Of course. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You had an example of precision and courage. Congratulations. [[Voice from the room: Don't suck up.]] Senator, I'm not that naive. [[Why not?]] I'd have to follow your example. But ad rem. Mr. Senator, I am very cordially asking you, we may differ and argue, but it is unacceptable to use a special attention party for any of the groups, the social groups. I know you don't care, but if you care about the good of this House, please come here after my speech and tell me, "I'm sorry, I'm sorry." If you have a little bit of honor, remove from the protocol the word "party of special care." That's one thing. Secondly, since you said that about these winning elections, about these other things, I must also refer to it. If this correspondence election were to take place... Well, this mess isn't even in Kong-Kinshas or other third-world countries. I mean, it'd be a total horror movie. You couldn't arrange correspondence choices abroad, and you wanted to make correspondence choices for 30 million people in the country? Do you even know what you're saying? That's one thing. Besides, if we're talking about elections, I want to say yes. We hear you give us a clean-up, we hear about who's guilty, who's to be rewarded. I'll tell you what. Today, the same questions are asked in another country in Europe. Street and abroad inspires. Let us work and live peacefully, build the future of the great nation and state of the country in which the recent elections took place... These are the same words and comparisons. It was that all the institutions of the state worked to win the candidate Andrzej Duda. You referred to this as public television. She kept telling lies and lies about Trzaskowski, but she talked about a beautiful morning when Mr. President stood up and watched cherry blossoming in orchards in the centre of Poland, etc. Therefore, I beg you very much to let me use your tongue. As you say about who's guilty, who's to be rewarded, let us work quietly... I encourage the Minister: let us work calmly in discussions, let us argue, let us show good and bad solutions. We criticize because that's what we're here for, too, to point out the wrong solutions. You will nod to everything that you bring here, even more will you do, so that you will push these laws out of here as soon as possible. We don't, we want to discuss, argue with the Minister, and maybe we can come to some sort of agreement. What do you say, Senator? That it wasn't that with this special-needs party and all that... So... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, you've won by methods that, to put it mildly, shouldn't be used. And you shouldn't be proud of that victory. That's why I'm asking you to say, "I'm sorry, I just slipped out of this special-needs party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I thought there'd be at least some facts here. They weren't there, but one fact has to be stated. You have fought the outcome of the election to the end. The representative of the electoral committee of Mr Rafał Trzaskowski filed an electoral protest. Please note that this protest has not even passed the formal stage. It means that... like a normal man who was, felt, suspected that maybe there was a violation of the electoral code, made his protest... At least 93 of these protests were considered legitimate, but of course they did not affect the outcome of the election, and you, with the help of legal representatives, could not formulate a protest that would go through the preliminary stage of the procedure. You didn't even give me any evidence. There used to be an attempt to raise a discussion between the first and second rounds. In which arguments were Facebook entries. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a discussion. You made that argument and someone disciplined you just... Because it's not politics. The choices in terms of counting and legality are not policy. That's the law. The Supreme Court just disciplined you. Ordinary people can write an understandable electoral protest and justify it, and your lawyers can't. That's what it looks like, unfortunately. So you can take note of the election result, by the way, for us it is primarily a commitment, with this turnout. Or you can continue. Today we witnessed... Half of these statements were not about the strict sense of the law, but about this one article, the article. 22. [[Likewise now, Mr. Senator, you speak, I have the impression...]] But I'm not covering it up, Mr. Marshal... [[Yeah, but...]] Well, that's how it is... [[But it's very difficult to say, Mr. Senator... I'm sorry, I'm trying not to interrupt, but... I accept the situation that both your previous speaker and you are not talking about it, but please, since you're not talking about it, at least don't accuse each other that you're not talking about it, because you're not talking about it.]] Mr. Marshal, I tried to quote at least part of the article. 22, which is in the bill. But let's just leave it at that. Really, this isn't about you questioning the election outcome all the time. And trying to correlate it or contact it, comparing it with what's happening in Belarus right now, maybe it's not the use of ugly words, but... it's even more perfidious. You can apologize for that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u117	You're welcome, Senator Marek Borowski. [[As part of the corrigendum...]] In that case, as a correction, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, from the spot. You're welcome, Senator. Mr. Marshal Borowski will be kind enough to wait.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u118	High Izbo, Mr. Marshal, I'd like to inform you of the false thing you said to the senator. Namely, in my first speech, I only referred to what is written in the bill. But after hearing the senator's argument, I decided... [[But I don't...]] But I'd like to explain myself to the marshal... [[But I understand the context perfectly...]] I'll just finish. I would like to say to the senator: Mr Senator, if you believe that elections are merely an act of voting, I congratulate you on the approach to what an election process is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u119	Mr Senator, I would like to say that I have perfectly understood the context of your statement, and I have allowed you, in my knowledge of the motive, to step out, outraged by your previous speaker's statement, beyond the substantive scope of the discussion. I think you had every right to do that. Your previous speaker responded to the fact that I reacted when he accused you of saying nothing about it at the time that you were both in this uncomfortable situation. I'm very sorry for the explanation, but I'm trying to make everyone feel comfortable while we're doing this. treated equally and I must be impartial about the proceedings being held. And respect that, too. You're welcome, Marshal Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. On the Senator Czerwiński's side, we saw such a surprise that many speakers, because not all, only part of them, were interested in just a piece of the bill. What's that, exactly? Yeah, that's right. But, Mr. Senator, that's how it is, since you put yourself into the bill in a non-constitutional way, we have all these things described in the opinion of our Legislative Office, I have to say that it's up to you to read this kind of thing, so don't be surprised that you're talking about it later, because it's just a violation of the rules. And the fact that there are many other reasonable provisions in this law has been emphasized, and there is nothing to discuss. But I'm gonna go back to the basic matter that you raised. How illegal is that if the law says that the President of the Council of Ministers can issue orders? So he gave the order to Mr. Sasin, and Mr. Sasin gave the order to the Post Office and printed, and the packages were prepared for 70 million zlotys. Just because the President of the Council of Ministers could issue orders does not automatically mean that every command is good, has only good results and cannot be settled. It's like a legal act. And now, at what point did the President of the Council of Ministers give the order? He gave this command during the Senate work on this bill. There were a lot of constitutionalists' reservations to this law, and there was also a need to talk to experts, and despite the fact that the President of the Council of Ministers had no guarantee that this law would be able to be adopted within such a period of time to carry out these elections, he made such a decision and this burdened him. Since Minister Sasin is explaining himself to the Prime Minister, and it seems that at some point he was trying to throw off his responsibility, pointing to the Prime Minister, I can talk about the Prime Minister's responsibility in this matter. And I will not argue with a number of your arguments about these elections, because this is not a topic for today, this matter has already been discussed many times and we have already straightened out your statements, but you are returning to the same arguments again. I will only say one thing: probably a week or 10 days before the election, it was quite clear that these elections could not be held. Apart from all the other reasons, they could not have done so because they would have ended with one great embarrassment, because the committees would have needed a month to announce the outcome of the first tour. And I wonder what Poland would look like in the eyes of the world then and what you would say then. That is why I repeat every time that the Law and Justice, the Ruler, the Prime Minister, and of course the President should be grateful to the Senate for saving them and the country from this kind of embarrassment. Yeah, but thank you. We'll have to wait. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you and, as I understand it, I inform you in accordance with the truth. That the list of speakers was exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the following senators have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes: Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz... No, I'm sorry... Yes, Janusz Pęcherz, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Joanna Sekuła, Jerzy Czerwiński, Józef... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, I'm so sorry. [[Sorry, Mr. Marshal, I didn't make a speech for the minutes.]] Excuse me, then the Senators Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz and Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, as well as... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, these are all senators who have made their speeches to the minutes. And the legislative proposals were made in writing by Senator Alexander Pociej, Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, Senator Benjamin Godula... [[Voice from the room: Godyla.]] ...Godyla, excuse me, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Joanna Sekuła, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator Józef Zając. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that, as proposals of a legislative nature have been tabled, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] But I would very much ask that a government representative answer questions addressed to a government representative, not someone else. I'm defending you, Minister. Because now you have a very confused face. I mean, someone answered for you, that you didn't want to speak in the discussion, and I want to make sure that you're sure they prefer not to speak now... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: I am therefore a little stunned...]] Well, that's what happens in life, Minister. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] 'Cause I'm stunned by the look on your face, and that's why I'm trying to... [[Voice from the room: The microphone needs...]] If you'd be so kind as to make this important declaration that our House is waiting for, whether you'd like to speak or not... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Janusz Cieszyński: No, thank you very much.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Oh, thank you. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Act on the support of the market for insurance of commercial claims in relation to the counter-productive effects of COVID-19. The text of the Act is contained in print No 161 and the report of the Commission In print No 161 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Richard Śvilski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There is no doubt that there have been absolute and visible changes in the entire economic system on a macro or micro scale in recent months. We are also talking about the changes that are taking place in our market, the internal market. We leaned down today at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on a law that really talks about supporting the insurance market throughout the process of changes regarding... the support of companies offering insurance for commercial claims. To those who are interested in this topic, we are talking about the fact that a new player will enter the insurance process in the framework of reinsurance. We are talking about the Treasury here, we are talking about the obligations that the Ministry wants to take on in this case. We are also talking about a process which, in some way, hopefully effective, will be such a safeguard for the entire order system, transactions that are concluded between the parties in trade. We know very well that today's situation has nothing to do with a year or two ago. This discussion took place at the committee meeting today. The State Treasury wants to be involved in this process. There is no doubt that such an approach creates the security of the commercial process. We are also aware that if someone wants to share insurance risks, it will be an absolutely appropriate element for the entire economic system. During the committee meeting, we discussed the whole system and process of the investigation into this element. To your knowledge, such a statutory element has been introduced in Germany. We also know that similar solutions, perhaps slightly different, already exist in France. We are another country that can introduce these solutions into the transaction system between the contracting authority and the counterparty. There will be a significant impact on the state budget, contrary to appearances. We have applied some kind of analogy to the situation from 2008 to 2010. Today, of course, we cannot say what the financial consequences of such an approach would be, not another approach to the programme, but the approach that we present in this law today allows us to talk about securing the two sides of the transaction process. It will also be a moment where we avoid, hopefully, a fall in turnover throughout the economic system. Establishment of a government programme and subsequent In fact, this will be the second step in implementing this programme, which will make economic operators feel safer when it comes to the implementation of the entire procurement and supply chain. We talked about the costs involved in this process, we talked about the budget resources being secured by the COVID fund. The applicant, the government side, informed us that it would be If I make a mistake, I understand that the Minister will present the exact sum. The amount of PLN 2.7 billion. The process will be spread over 6 years and the security of individual periods will be designed so that the largest commitments will be for next year. We are talking about the insurance of a buyer loan, because it seems that it will be a mechanism that will cause us to feel no harm, at least due to the loss of VAT and will not be affected by the fact that these trade transactions will be negligible or to a lesser extent than they have been so far. We didn't make any amendments to this bill as a committee. We don't want to inhibit trade. We want to introduce such reinsurance through this law, in which the State Treasury will indeed be a player, I do not want to say that in the insurance market, but will be a player in all this economic turnover. The principles that will be presented are clearly and clearly discussed. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance unanimously adopted the proposal for these provisions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I regret to state, Senator, that no one wants to ask you a question. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u124	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! As I am impressed by the whole debate at point two, I will try to summarize in point three. As short as I can with the insurance bill. In view of COVID-19 and its significant economic impact, insurance companies offering commercial receivables shall review their portfolios. We have received clear signals from the market that they can significantly reduce limits or eliminate exposures at all, and cuts can affect individual businesses, but also entire industries or markets. Therefore, a systemic response is needed, which we propose in this Act. In 2019 trade receivables of PLN 165 billion were insured, including PLN 60 billion in exports. The insurance limits granted allowed Polish entrepreneurs to realize and secure more than 533 billion trades. Of which PLN 118 billion concerned foreign transactions, which represented around 12% total exports of Poland. Depending on the evolution of the situation, there is a risk that this exposure may be reduced by 20%.50% compared to the situation before the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, and this could mean a reduction in the limits of insured debts by up to PLN 80 billion. Leaving Polish insurance companies will mean an unacceptable increase in the risk of transactions and thus slow down trade and the economy as a whole. The immediate effect will be a significant deterioration of financial liquidity, including a significant increase in the risk of insolvency. For the State Treasury, a decrease in the number of commercial transactions will mean a deterioration of the macroeconomic situation and a decrease in the revenues, both for CIT and VAT. The solution is designed to eliminate all these risks. The mechanism proposed in the Act submitted to the High House will consist of the conclusion by the Minister for Development of properly standardised reinsurance contracts with insurance undertakings which wish to join the government scheme. Such reinsurance assumes that the State Treasury, in exchange for its permanent participation in the insurance premium, takes over part of the insurance risk of possible claims. These levels of contributions will evolve: 80% , then 100% after exceeding certain amounts of compensation paid. We are thus trying to protect the income and liquidity of insurance companies, but at the same time, after exceeding a certain amount of compensation, the contribution of the State Treasury to the risk ceases. We set a safe limit to the state's involvement. The risk transfer relates to entire insurance portfolios. Insurance companies don't choose what they want to tell us and what they don't. It is therefore not possible for insurers to make a negative risk selection. Thus, we operate systemically, but also protect the interests of the State Treasury against particularly risky assets. This solution is modelled, as my previous speaker said, on the German and French model. In Germany it has been launched on a much larger scale and is already successfully implemented. High Izbo, I would like to ask you kindly to adopt a bill in the shape of my previous speaker. As the senator has already said, at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we answered all questions relating to this law. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of query to government representatives related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of the senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed and Senator Mariusz Gromko have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, or I, has submitted a legislative proposal in writing to the minutes. And I'm closing the discussion. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. But since a legislative proposal has been made, I ask the Committee on Budget and Public Finance to respond to the proposal and to prepare a report so that a vote can be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the law on liability for breach of the provisions of the Regulation on mutual recognition of goods lawfully placed on the market in another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point on products. The text of the Act is contained in print No 172 and the report of the Commission In print No 172 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to submit a report to the committee. Room 217. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u126	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear High Izbo! I present the report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation from the meeting held yesterday, on 10 August this year. And there's gonna be a long name, I'm sorry. On the draft law on liability for breach of the provisions of the Regulation on mutual recognition of goods lawfully placed on the market in another Member State and on the indication of the authority leading the contact point for products. That's the name of the bill. It was included in Seym Papers No. 495 and 507, our report you have in print No. 172 A, and it is a consequence of printing No. 172. The High Izbo Act is intended to apply Regulation 2019/515 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 March 2019 which has been applied directly in the Member States of the European Union since 19 April 2020. So we have a glitch in relation to that time. This regulation aims to strengthen This is a very important issue of the functioning of the internal market of the European Union and is intended to contribute to reducing barriers to the free movement of goods. The law in question regulates in Polish law the principle of liability for infringements of the provisions of this Regulation, namely the Union Regulation, including, first, the authorised public administrations, second, the maximum possible penalties, thirdly, the conditions and rules for their definitive determination, and fourthly, the authorities competent to maintain a contact point for products, in short called PCP. The High Senate, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, worked on this law, as I said, on 10 August this year. The Commission unanimously adopted the legislative amendments drawn up by the Senate Legislative Office and accepted by the Government Party, and I stress this because this is important for some states senators and senators. These amendments are included in our report, in print No 172 A. At the same time, the Commission informs that it has unanimously adopted the entire law and recommends that the High Senate adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, as the meeting is partly remotely held, unfortunately some information is delayed. Back to the previous item on the agenda, for the record, Senator Benjamin Godyla has also e-mailed his speech to the minutes. Please note this in the minutes. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The draft law was introduced by the government, and the Minister for Development was authorised to present the position of the government in the course of the legislative work. On behalf of the Minister of Development, she is acting, as I understand it, Minister Olga Semenuk. You're welcome, Minister, to speak. I see you're headed for the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u128	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the context of the Law on Liability for Violation of the Provisions of the Mutual Recognition Regulation in accordance with the law placed on the market in another Member State and the indication of the authority operating the contact point, I can say that this Act is intended to serve the application of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council of 19 March 2019 on mutual recognition of goods lawfully marketed in another Member State and repealing the Regulation... [[The voice from the room: I think it was in the previous...]] No, it's okay. [[Voice from the room: No, good.]] That's a good point. This isn't about... [[Voice from the room: It's not...]] No, no, that's a good point. The Regulation shall apply directly from 19 April 2020. The aim of the Regulation is to strengthen the functioning of the internal market of the European Union. It should contribute to the abolition of barriers to the free movement of goods through the wider application and more effective functioning of the principle of mutual recognition of goods in an area not harmonised. Regulation 2019/515 obliges the competent authorities to respect the results of tests already carried out on the goods. This is intended to eliminate repeated research and facilitate the placing on the market of goods in another Member State. In order for this Regulation to be effectively applied in Poland and to ensure the effective elimination of barriers to the free movement of goods, it is appropriate to adopt a law on liability for breaching the provisions of the Regulation on mutual recognition of goods lawfully placed on the market in another Member State and to indicate the authority leading the contact point for the product. The absence of such a law could lead to a situation where the principle of mutual recognition would not be applied effectively and economic operators would not know uniform criteria for assessing the reliability of their voluntary mutual recognition statements. At the same time, I would like to stress that all the amendments were adopted at the committee meeting. Please accept this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Adam Szejnfeld. I ask the senator to ask you a question. Room 217, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u130	Thank you very much, Marshal. Well, I have a question for the government representative. As I said during the proceedings, this bill did not cause much controversy. However, one thing raises serious doubts for some senators and I would like to see the Minister, if possible, dispel these doubts, namely penalties. The law provides, you can say, a gigantic punishment, but depends on which entity. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 (1) (a) 3 is said to be the amount of the administrative penalty to I stress: up to 100 thousand PLN, so there is very much flexibility here, you can joke, from $100,000 to $100,000. Yes, it is. 4 of this provision sort of sets out certain criteria for assessing the situation and, also, let us refer to it in quotes at least, the calculation of an adequate, proportionate, I think and as it should be, the level of this penalty. There are such criteria as the gravity and circumstances of the infringement; the amount of the benefit; the prior punishment or non-punishment of the administrative penalty; the action taken by the parties voluntarily in order to remedy the consequences of the infringement; cooperation with the investigating authority I'm shortening this list of conditions, of course. And even the personal conditions of the website etc. So that there are some criteria that should be taken into account, but nevertheless there will be incredible flexibility here, there will even be discretion in imposing this penalty. I would like to know where the amount of PLN 100,000 came from, why not PLN 10 or why not $1 million. That's one thing. Secondly, whether you are concerned about the fact that these authorities are all litany. If they were replaced, it would be longer than the entire bill, several times longer than the entire bill. Knowing the cases, unfortunately many... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr Senator, I would very much ask you to shorten your speech.]] Yeah, I'm buying. Knowing the numerous cases of such discretion, which is not appropriate to the actions taken, you may have concerns about the various negative effects so open that, so to speak, such a flexible provision. I would like an answer to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u131	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u132	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, Thank you so much for that question. Maybe I'll start with the middle part of your speech about the fact that the financial damage between zero and 100,000 zlotys is discretionary. It seems that if there was a single amount set at the level e.g. 5 thousand PLN, that is only then we could talk about this discretion, because there is a different degree of administrative penalties. The responsibility of economic operators for the content presented, the accuracy of the information contained in the voluntary statement of mutual recognition and the evidence necessary for the verification of that information provided. The penalty laid down in the administrative penalty law is exactly the limit that the senator said was between zero and 100 thousand zlotys. A systematic sanction in Polish law for making a false statement is the criminal liability of natural persons, art. 233 of the Law of 6 June 1997 in the Criminal Code. Its aim is to maintain consistency with existing solutions, including. with the Law on conformity assessment systems in market surveillance and the General Product Safety Act This is why this amount is also available. and to preserve the effectiveness of the rules on the liability of economic operators in trade. It is reasonable to sanction these entities by imposing administrative fines. That is why these limits have been established between zero and 100 thousand PLN in order to treat individual offences and impose administrative penalties in an unrecognizable manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u133	Thank you very much, Minister. Anyone else from the senators want to ask you a question? I ask especially those sitting online and in the halls. I don't see any volunteers. I therefore open the discussion. I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Swed and Senator Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Would any of your senators like to make a speech on the record? I particularly address the senators who are now online. Thank you very much. In that case, the discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Act on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications. The text of the Act is contained in print No 174 and the report of the Commission In print No 174 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u134	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to report, on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, on the Act on support for rural development adopted by the Sejm on 24 July 2020, with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014 This was considered on July 30th. The Commission, after analysis and discussion, proposes to adopt a law without amendments. Of course, there was a discussion, there were 2 legislative amendments which the committee did not accept, recognising that they did not have a significant impact on the implementation of this law. As regards the operation of the Act, its main objective is to introduce a legal basis in the legal system for the implementation of the Rural Development Programme. In short, these are measures to support farmers in connection with COVID, as farmers, micro-entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are also affected by the crisis. Here, as far as possible, the European Union has agreed to transfer funds from action so that farmers can be compensated. Of course, at the moment, opportunities for this support are being developed and prepared. I think that the Ministry of Agriculture will be able to make a broader statement on how it intends to do this and what entities it could possibly benefit from. Once again, on behalf of the committee, I ask for the support and adoption of this law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u135	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you, Senator, again. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work. We welcome Minister Richard Kaminski to the gym. Would the Minister like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u136	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the rapporteur for the introduction. As short as possible, I would like to say that actually during the COVID it turned out that traditional food supply and distribution chains are being broken up and farmers, like all other sectors, had serious problems, especially in March and April. Hence, various kinds of organizations, or actually all organizations, were asking us to take steps to alleviate this difficult situation. We consulted the European Commission on how to respond, personally with Commissioner Wojciechowski, looking for solutions. Poland was among the five countries of the European Union, which had still available funds from the Rural Development Programme. And it was at the request of the National Council of Agricultural Chambers and other organisations that we made efforts to find among these unused funds from the Rural Development Programme for the period 2014-2020... The idea was not to reduce, not to give up any action, but to find measures that could temporarily remedy this emergency situation temporarily. This is why the idea came to be that this exceptional, temporary, as finally called support for farmers, micro-enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises particularly affected by the COVID crisis, introduced in several European Union countries as a new measure under the basic Regulation 1305/2013... In April, we still brought EUR 1 billion, because such amounts were available. It seemed to us that they were necessary in such a way as to alleviate these problems for farmers. The initial response from the European Commission was 1%. Rural Development Programme. Later, the Croatian Presidency intervened. Finally, at the end of May we talked about 1%. In June, at the very moment when the monitoring committee of our RDP 2014.2020 was discussing this 1-percent solution, there was an indication that an additional 1% could be available. And we had to change the procedure. Ultimately, what we are proposing to the High House concerns 2% Rural Development programme, i.e. amounts just over PLN 1 billion 200 million not the euro That's a lot less. But it still seems that these measures, if they are triggered for those sectors that are most affected... I would like to say right away that we have said from the outset that the most affected sectors were animal production sectors. As far as plant production is concerned, the harvest that is now under way shows that the crop is not the worst, i.e. plant production in 2020 has not suffered any serious damage. But animal production, where there is a need to involve workers, where farmers have to put a lot of work into it. There we watched trouble. Besides, individual animal production sectors... lambs usually leave for Italy before Easter. They didn't leave. 80% beef production is for export, and there were huge logistical problems with export. There have been huge problems with poultry exports, and he is also intended for export to a significant extent. There's been a disturbance on the pork market. Later it turned out that actually every sector associated with animal production, also milk production... We remembered that. And we noticed in March that the production of flowers under cover is also in trouble. Actually, this list is very long. And with 1%. RD, we were wondering how this 1% to separate, although symbolically all sectors that are covered by this support, which are affected by the widely understood COVID, colloquially speaking, are taken into account. Finally, the solutions we have found have been presented to the High House. I would like to point out that introducing a new action into the Rural Development Programme is a fairly long administrative procedure. And here we worked more closely and relatively quickly with the European Commission. In addition to support, i.e. shifting individual actions from the already existing RDPs 2014.2020, we have also introduced... i.e. we suggest administrative changes which facilitate the procession and which will not cause any problems, because we are still observing the difficulties of the beneficiaries of COVID. Farmers will submit an application... I mean. If we successfully conclude the issue of this law, farmers will submit an aid application, which will also be a payment application, and will have the right of appeal guaranteed. Nevertheless, we are shortening the consultation deadlines. And all this so that, in accordance with the requirements, what the European Commission has put before us, the contracting of these funds and then the payment can take place this year. It's logical because we have COVID now. And when it's next year... We'll see about that. But this support is needed. Very fast. Hence this type of administrative change. The second thread, i.e. Article 2 37, concerns the absence of an obligation for the public finance sector to provide for the proper implementation of the commitments laid down in the grant agreement and, for other aid applicants, the transfer of that obligation from the stage of concluding the grant agreement to the stage prior to the payment of the aid. It is also very important to improve the procession so as not to block the payment system, which is very important. The Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture has already taken preparatory steps to this, if the law is adopted, and we hope that we will be able to pay these funds again this year. If something needs to be said in more detail, I am, of course, prepared to provide such information. Thank you very much for the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u137	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There's a call. Senator Rafał Ambrozik wanted to ask a question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Are there any estimates of how much? Can the farms benefit from this aid? And to what extent will this assistance be provided? The second point is: who will carry out the selection of these proposals?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u139	Thank you very much. The Minister's going to get the materials. Oh, there you go. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u140	Thank you so much for that question. Of course, with regard to rates, they are prepared, i.e. detailed information is prepared, it will be provided in a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, which we are preparing. The sectors that we recommend for support concern, as I said, all the farms that keep the animals, lambs, meat cattle, i.e. beef, poultry... And that's in different sectors. Of course, not everyone has that 1% at their disposal. RDPs, not all producer groups, breeders, in this case animals, poultry, have been taken into account here. We have taken into account those producers who have been most affected by the COVID. For example, Mr. Senator, if I may, I'm going to say, in the case of meat cattle, the entry in lithium. And our regulation says that if a farmer kept at least 3 head of meat cattle, and yet a male, he gets 5 thousand 100 zlotys, that's a minimum, to 20 head. And there is the highest range: if he kept more than 50 pieces, he will receive 20,000 200 PLN. We know that... this is just an example of beef cattle. We know that this is not a full compensation of losses, but certainly ♪ As I said ♪ For this labor intensive production... This will make it very easy for farmers to maintain their liquidity. We know that there is a accumulation of various types of disadvantages in agriculture. Luckily, we don't have a drought this year. Last year, farmers who were hit by drought... The following year, in 2020, another disaster occurred in the spring and there was turmoil in the market. On the one hand, these turbulences represented significant increases in cereal prices and very high feed prices for poultry and pigs production, and on the other hand, It's a sales problem. This accumulation of adverse events has led us to prepare a possible rate. I want to highlight one thing. In order to be able to withdraw the aid this year, we were primarily driven by knowledge of the problems in March and April. We wanted to automate the payout system so that a simple, very simple conclusion, not for verification, because the verification will be based on the system that the restructuring agency is running... I'm answering your second question. The idea was that the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which serves farmers in all activities, could in its IRZ system, register animals, find data from March and April and determine to which extent the breeder concerned is eligible. There will be further automatic verification so that it is not necessary to prove the number of animals that the farmer kept. It was crucial to us. The idea was to create a system to support the payment of funds as soon as possible, because the agency did not have the operation of the IT system ready for it. This IT system, of course, is needed to make such payments. Those are my answers. I have two pages of detailed information and I serve this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u141	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u142	Minister, it is very good that the European Commission has launched these measures. But I have a question. The budget of the European Union is for the period 2014-2020, but it can still be used in the next 3 years. What's it like? Will it be possible, in the event of an escalation of the threat of COVID, for farmers to be supported in the future, to transfer further funds to help farmers? What is the Commission's position on this issue?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u143	Mr. Senator, of course we hope that this extraordinary situation will not last forever, at least not too long. Of course, we know that we can expect different scenarios. Hence, as you said, the n+3 rule applies. The funds in the Rural Development Programme are still available. This, of course, concerns the whole of Europe, of all the countries of the European Union. That we will have a transitional period between the Rural Development Programme 2014 and the planned common agricultural policy plan, because that is what this new programme will be called. It's the CAP Plan. We're gonna have a transitional period. We already know that this will be the case in 2021, possibly in 2022, but that will still be the case. Further measures will be available to farmers. We would, of course, prefer that these measures, which will be available during the transition period, in 2021, be allocated, in line with the original plan, to modernisation actions, to partially preparatory actions for the new period. Challenges related to the so-called The green order, which has probably been discussed here many times, is huge and, if necessary, still, despite the destiny of 2% The current RDP... We're able to make up our minds, so to speak, ad hoc decisions. [[Voice from the room: The field for discussion is.]] Surely, however, the problem is, as usual, procedural. We were in April... Farmers pressured agricultural chambers and other organisations to activate it immediately. The European Commission has launched this action in an extraordinary way and we are... Well, it's August. Unfortunately, this is the time frame for this very rapid procession. Let's hope we don't have to make another change like this. But if we have to, we're gonna take this kind of action.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u144	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two short questions. Here we are talking about beneficiaries in the sense not only of farmers, but also of micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, i.e., I understand, also those in the industry, I do not know, food processing, livestock farming and even wider. Yes? And then there's the second line. What will the methodology be, or will it be so that anyone who volunteers gets the order of applications Is there a certain pot? Could it be, let's say, from one piece? Is that definite yet? Or maybe there'll be another methodology, that we collect all the reports and divide the funds by the number of notifications, so that the amount stays as this factor... maybe not the factor, but the amount generated? So is this going to be on a first-come, first-served and fixed basis, or is it going to depend on how many people are going to report?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u146	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u147	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! We have adopted this second solution, which means money is waiting for all those who meet the access criteria. Budget 2% The Rural Development Programme has been allocated so that any farmer who reports and meets the criteria, which is confirmed by the restructuring agency's system, can count on this support and can receive it. There will be absolutely no first-come, first-served rule. Everyone I've talked about will simply receive such support. To the first question about entrepreneurs, the answer is this. The European Commission, setting up a framework in Regulation No 1305, which is the basis for the 2014-2020 RDPs, has also created the possibility of supporting small and medium-sized enterprises. We have said that, of course, we will support small and medium-sized enterprises in the agricultural sector, but we will also offer various types of support for different groups. In the case of farmers, the support I am talking about is 2%. There is no billion euro in the production process, but we have a billion zlotys, and for small and medium-sized enterprises we have financial instruments that are provided in the banking system, mainly cooperative banks, but not only. These funds are distributed by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, i.e. preferential loans subsidies, liquidity funds. This activity has already been launched and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, but also large entrepreneurs, can count on this support. This is of great interest to the agricultural sector of agricultural SMEs. Taking up activity after COVID... There have been many questions in this regard. It would not be sufficient for such grants to SMEs and farmers at the same time, hence for farmers one-off payments in the form of such liquidity premium, and for small and medium-sized enterprises these are preferential loans with a subsidy from Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. These are measures which in the RDP we have already initially had within the COVID. First, we launched EUR 50 million, which were envisaged as guarantees for farm modernisation activities. As I say, in the first step we also extended this formula to revolving loans, which small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have been looking for. So it's not just investment loan measures, it's also about improving liquidity, on revolving loans, which I'm saying is what businessmen have been looking for. [[If you don't mind, Marshal, one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u148	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u149	So farmers are definitely donor issues, non-refundable... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Kaminski: Yes, yes.]] This is important. And why don't you give me some money, say, for one cow, let's assume how much... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Ryszard Kaminski: Of course, now, in a moment...]] For example, of course...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u150	I probably mentioned it, but now, very much, I'm opening up and talking, Mr. Senator. Here you go, in the case of meat cattle, 5 000 100 zlotys if the farmer had at least 3 animals and not more than 20 animals. This is the first range, 5 thousand 100 zlotys, meat cattle; the second range, 10 thousand pieces; from 21 to 30 pieces; 16 thousand 200 zlotys to 50 pieces; and the highest amount in this group, 20 thousand 200 zlotys, concerns more than 50 animals. This counts for meat cattle, even more specifically male from 12 to 24 months of age, because there were the biggest losses there. And suitable for the flock. In the last stage, when the second percent of the Rural Development Programme was allocated, we joined dairy cattle, because there is a large group of such producers in Poland, and there are already lower rates, because also the fall in prices for milk production was lower than for beef, sheep, lambs, especially for fattening or poultry. And that's why the differences are. Of course, as I say, I can read all these rates in detail. We presented them during the committee's work. I think this offer is definitely... Because farmers often reported that it doesn't compensate for the whole thing. Yeah, I'm sure he's not compensating. I wonder if even if we had one billion euros, this compensation would be 100 percent. But this is the kind of action that's supposed to improve the situation, not completely solve the problem, because we can't.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u151	Thank you very much. Please ask the question of Senator Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Minister, I believe that these questions have already been asked in the Sejm, but farmers continue to ask them: why should the security of commitments be made in the form of blank notes? Is it because this aid will be in the form of a contract or in the form of a decision, or are you simply afraid that there will be irregularities on the part of farmers and these notes will be immediately used for the collection of irregularities? Whether notes are executed in all programmes, or if this is an additional provision, only in this Article. Article 37a (1) (a) (ii) (ii) and (iii) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. One? And public sector entities are not covered by this, they are exempted from it, which also upsets farmers. Why is there no notes in the public sector? And these are not only companies of the Treasury, they are often separated, etc. Will some be released and some will not? Many questions have already been raised about this, as it has already appeared, that this law is adopted by the Sejm... Are farmers supposed to fear that they will have to pay their bills when a special check comes to verify them strongly? 'Cause I think that's what farmers are afraid of.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u153	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u154	I would like to respond in this way: farmers using EU funds are used to such safeguards. It seems to be the most mild protection of those that are possible. I don't think there are any greater concerns among farmers, or at least I don't see them. The public sector is also... Here I would like to draw attention to the transfer of this billing obligation to the first payment request. The moment we apply for funding... This has been a problem so far, also a procedural one. This significantly prolonged the entire handling of applications. We try to avoid this, but at the same time, as is apparent from the implementation of the entire Rural Development Programme, some kind of safeguards can unfortunately not be avoided. In the case of COVID aid, the bonus will be paid automatically. Farmers do not have to fear this at all because the verification will be carried out by the agency itself. The farmer will not have to prove anything here, which is very important, because usually these problems with the possible launch of the note are related to the fact that there is a discrepancy between what the agency states in the framework of the on-the-spot check and what the farmer declares in the framework of the implementation of the contract. Well, in quite exceptional cases, such a note can be triggered. In the event of this action, I do not expect any problems. I don't think we're ever gonna give up security at all. It would be very difficult for us to get away from this, but I think that in the case of the COVID actions we will not have any trouble with it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u155	Thank you very much, Minister. No more questions. I'm opening a discussion. Would any of your senators like to speak in the discussion? No. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Senator Aleksander Szwed made a speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm in charge of... [[We've got an announcement to make.]] Yes, the announcement will be made before the break. Please read the message, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u156	A meeting of the Health Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to the outbreak of COVID-19 and after its cessation, the Senate printing no. 169 will be held today at 21.00 in room No. 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-08-11-senat-14-1.u157	Thank you very much. I'll have a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 19 minutes 48]]
