ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the 17th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Aleksandr Swed and Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers in the Senate meeting room will be led by Senator Alexander Szwed, in room 217 the list of speakers will be led by Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, I have decided, after consulting the Senior Convention, to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, i.e. remotely. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Alexander Swed, and in room 217 Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. I would also ask the Senators to pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. Do all senators in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the sitting? I hope so. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Office. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the remote voting application in the sitting that they start voting so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I also remind you of the need to push 2 buttons After the vote: in the voting window and in response to the question of confirmation. I'm asking you to give me any vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It seems that one vote from the voters has not reached remotely yet, and today there are quite a number of remotely voting senators and senators. Please kindly pay attention to whether or not they have been pressed All the buttons. Please state the results of the vote. 79 senators took part in the vote. [[Voting No 1]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 18 October this year. Senator Stanisław Rogut, Senator VI, VII, VIII and IX of the term of office, died. In Senate VI, VII and VIII he was Deputy Chairman of the Committee on National Economy and in Senate IX Chairman of the Committee on Infrastructure. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator Stanisław Rooster. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 18th meeting on 7 October 2020, adopted part of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19 and the Act on the Medical Fund. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the 14th meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 15th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. The draft agenda, which was sent to you by electronic means, contained the following items: the Electronic Service Act; information for the Polish Sejm and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of January and June 2020 (Croatia Presidency of the Council of the European Union). In view of the failure of the Infrastructure Commission to prepare a report on the law and the failure of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union to know the information, these items have not been included in the draft agenda for approval by the Senate. Following the preparation of the committee's report and after the committee has consulted the agenda, these items will be added to the agenda. I hope that the committees will decide tomorrow and the items will be put on the agenda on Wednesday. I propose that the first point of the draft agenda be considered, although the prints on the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19 were delivered at a later date than specified in the article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Health in the course of the review of the Law on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crisis situations related to the occurrence of COVID-19 is the first item on today's agenda, which saw the need for legislative changes going beyond the scope of the Act and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This initiative is included in print No 238. I ask all senators to be present for this item on the agenda, as we will then vote on the possible extension of the agenda for this initiative. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I therefore state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 17th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office. I would like to inform you that after considering point one, i.e. The amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COPVID-19 is planned to vote on this matter. Tomorrow we will begin the session at 4:00 p.m., after considering the Law on amending the budget law for 2020. The vote will also take place after the bill has been examined. On Wednesday we will resume the session at 10 a.m., after considering the draft resolution on commemorating the 80th anniversary of the Battle of England and the Polish Heroes. In the absence of legislative proposals, the vote will take place immediately after consideration of this point. Information point for the Polish Parliament and Senate on the participation of the Republic of Poland in the work of the European Union in the period of July December 2019 will be discussed on the third day of the meeting. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Following the preparation of the committee's report on the draft resolution on the limitation of civil rights, order may be supplemented by a second reading of the draft. And that's all for starters. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. The text of the act is contained in print No 235 and the report of the committee In print No 235 A. I would like to remind you that the Committee on Health has recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure presented a proposal for a legislative initiative. This proposal, together with the draft law, is included in print No 238. I would remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative is presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill under consideration. After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the second reading of the bill. If the request is accepted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting as a separate item on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on the accession to the second reading means that the draft is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would now ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to speak and to present a report to the committee on the bill under consideration and a request from the committee to take a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure and the honour of presenting a report to the Health Committee. Together with the committee's request to take action on the legislative initiative On 22 October 2020, the Law on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19, adopted by the Sejm. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 23 October. After considering the bill at its meeting on 26 October, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. At the same time, the committee informs that, in the course of the work on this law, it has recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law under consideration. Therefore, on the basis of Article. 69 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the committee shall present a proposal for a legislative initiative and submit a draft law amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, printing No 238. High Izbo, the work we did in the Health Committee was really hard. We worked very quickly, but at the same time very carefully and substantively. Finally, the Minister himself thanked the committee for working very substantively and we tried to accept possible amendments that would further improve this proposal. It is a fact that the bill is being processed at a very fast pace. He went to the Sejm, as you all know, last week, Friday... Thursday, and he was being processed at a really fast pace. Some 60 amendments were tabled at the time, most of them were not accepted, but many themes were raised in the discussion that concerned the whole project, and there were also many different references to other laws, not only to laws directly related to health protection or to the support of medical workers. Rather, we expected that the project, which was being examined in the Seym, was aimed at supporting medical workers and helping to protect health, that this would be an overriding objective. However, it turns out that the references to many laws and regulations contained in this project show a wide spectrum of different changes that have been adopted under the motto so-called. support in the fight against the COVID epidemic and addressed to the Health Commission. Of course, there are also provisions for medical personnel directly in this project, and some of the amendments proposed in the Committee on Health in the Senate aimed at improving the situation of medical workers even more. At the meeting of the Health Committee in the Senate, the fact was raised that it was a parliamentary project, a project that did not follow the whole path of public consultation. This is extremely important in the case of this law because medical authorities could not refer to some important provisions that directly affect local government activity. Thus, the first point is the question which was asked during the committee's work, whether it is a parliamentary or government project, because the applicant did not attend the meeting of the Health Committee, and the only person who answered all the questions asked was the Minister of Health. The second point I've already mentioned is the incredible pace of work. It has probably also caused considerable difficulties in the process of this law today. More than 44 amendments have been tabled, because, of course, not all of them were adopted, and the discussion was very, very lively, both concerning the provisions that appear in this law and the problems sometimes much wider, going beyond the subject matter of this submission, but very important from the point of view of workers and the health system. It is said that this is a health bill, so it should be a shield that gives a sense of safety, motivation for medical workers and acts as a shield for the whole health system. It's not exactly like that. Here we see rather such a pre-emptive-resolution system concerning above all the increase in the number of employees in some institutions, especially those which are to be created, i.e. in so-called. Field hospitals. We all know that we lack medical personnel, and we have the impression that these records that are now appearing in this project are designed to look for different possibilities to properly secure medical personnel. We understand this situation. We know that the resources of medical personnel are limited, that there were deficiencies in medical personnel before the epidemic, and the epidemic was the only thing that completely exposed it. However, the charge we address to the group of Members who are applicants and, above all, to the government is that a draft law has not been drawn up properly before, which would be very strongly consulted, discussed with the medical community, and that in consensus and in agreement, because we all want to fight the epidemic, it could be accepted. The bill, which has been processed in this way, a law which has not been consulted with the medical community, unfortunately gives rise to anxiety. And it is as the representative of the Medical Chamber said at the committee meeting that this law absolutely does not dispel the doubts of medical workers, does not calm them down, on the contrary, causes many different concerns and doubts about the treatment of medical workers in an equal way, the same, so that there is no distinction between them in terms of paying them, i.e. those who work only with patients with COVID-19 are rewarded in a special way, and those who also meet with patients with COVID-19, but occasionally, are rewarded worse. This type of division of workers at a time when medical cards are missing and when everyone is really very strongly involved in working in the first series of fight against the epidemic, it is simply unfairly and badly received by the medical community. That's the first line. In addition to changes in the employment of medical workers, new areas have also emerged concerning completely different building laws, with the protection of entrepreneurs. So these are completely different topics that are not directly related to medical care, to the medical system. But we understand that these changes are also aimed at improving the whole crisis situation, because the fact that the epidemic crisis is already there and that the government is currently chasing ideas and plans to somehow prevent this situation is a fact. And I think that nobody here will convince anyone that it is different, because even the strategies presented two weeks ago by the current Minister of Health are already being changed, they are already completely different. However, if the strategies were dictated with regard to epidemic data and included advice from epidemiologists and all those who assessed the situation of epidemic development, two different versions of the strategy could be prepared. The first version relating to the slow development of the epidemic and the second version clearly indicating the rapid development of the epidemic. That's what's happening right now, we've got an increase in disease, an absolute development of the epidemic. And this law shows how far behind we are in the regulation, which, for example. would allow for the rapid employment of workers at the most sensitive points. Many articles that appear here also concern health care workers, their problems in everyday work. Here the Health Commission has accepted, in good faith, the changes that have been proposed to help and slightly reduce bureaucracy in relation to health care workers, although we had doubts that this provision is absolutely what it should be and what it should be from the Senate committee. During the work we discussed, as I say, many threads directly related to the work of medical workers, with lack of staff, but the most interesting was the topic which the Minister himself raised, namely that at the moment there is no plan B at all, namely the plan for the treatment of people with diseases other than COVID-19 disease. This is really extraordinary for me and for the members of the committee that for a few months we only treat one disease, forgetting all the other patients, and that the Ministry, as at the moment, has no plan and no strategy on how to resolve the availability of such benefits. The issue I would also like to mention is the article on criminal liability for unintentionally committed acts by medical professionals during the outbreak. It is a subject that comes back and we have talked about it many times here in the Senate. We have even tabled our proposal for a legislative path, i.e. the deletion of the article. 37 of the Criminal Code I'm talking here about medical errors that are unintentionally caused by the prison sentences until the age of 8, without prior proposal of prison sentences. That's when the whole medical error debate took place here in the Senate. Now, during the epidemic period, there is a proposal that a little, I would say, loosen up this provision, but this mainly concerns the mistakes made during the epidemic period. So it's a record that absolutely doesn't solve this topic. I'll repeat, it's not solved. In fact, I would say that if you go into this issue, you will notice how many different threads appear here. At the moment, other persons who will provide assistance in the care of patients with COVID-19, persons with various specialties and performing various professions are also admitted to various medical services. So this matter has definitely deepened, it's deeper than it's been before. Well, and the proposal only temporary, for an epidemic period, to reduce criminal liability is absolutely not a solution, divides the medical environment and is uneven. As a result, she doesn't meet the legal conditions either... It's about the constitution. There has been a very thorough discussion on this subject. He was a representative of the Chief Medical Chamber, who clearly expressed his position, saying that the subject was raised by the Medical Chamber in talks with the Ministry of Health a few months ago and there were promises from the Ministry that the topic was so called. The laws on a good Samaritan will be taken. The recording in the form of a single article that appears in this law, a broad law, does not solve this topic. Therefore, the Committee on Health very substantively, calmly addressing this subject and taking into account any comments made by the Legislative Office which were to us and are very important, it has decided not to make any amendments in this regard. However, we have declared that if the medical chamber and the Ministry of Health wish to proceed with the new project with a quick legislative path, the Senators of the Health Committee are ready to take over this project and to proceed it in the most legal manner possible. This is about the matter of not only the criminal code, but also the punishment of civil actions. This is already a completely separate and much wider range. As it has been said, at the committee meeting, the idea of a new proposal to extend the law that we are seeking today was proposed for a legislative initiative that concerns trade change. We approached this project and it went to a meeting of the Health Committee. From the point of view of public health. Of course, there are very important economic conditions here, but at the meeting of the Committee on Health, we gave the opinion in particular in order to extend the possibility of shopping and thus to increase the distance. The discussion was very fruitful because we looked at the problem from the point of view of seniors. Remember that what is proposed to seniors during the epidemic is a really small proposition. In addition, transfers We also talked about this at the committee meeting. They get into seniors, they're incoherent. We call for the issue of the regulation of seniors, 70+ people to deal with a separate discussion, which the Ministry of Health will undertake in its messages, at its conferences. There are voices that seniors, 70+ people don't really know what they've really been taken from them and how they can move. It's recommended not to go home, stay in the house, but... there are restrictions on e.g. going for a walk or a park, and there's no limit to the number of people... I mean. such a limitation is, but there is no clear message that there is a risk of infection in the places of the communities, and such a place is at least a church. There were many reservations about whether the message addressed to seniors is consistent and whether seniors understand this message well. On the basis of this... We understand that access to shops, shopping will help and will reduce the number of people shopping on Friday and Saturday. I think I briefly said everything that happened at the committee meeting. I would also like to say that the Legislative Bureau has given its opinion. This opinion contains a number of doubts about the proposed law. There are changes proposed by the Legislative Office Both legislative and editorial changes and changes related to the fact that some of the proposed provisions are incompatible with the Constitution. Once again, I would like to stress that it lasted several hours at the committee meeting, which was very insightful. And a quiet job. We have tried to clarify some of the provisions so as not to share the environment and so that the communication that will follow from this law is dedicated primarily to medical personnel. One amendment is therefore a new amendment. It was introduced here to honor, it is a kind of bow towards medical workers. This is what we are talking about from the very beginning of the epidemic, and so above all we would like to see a fund, a targeted fund, i.e. a marked money, dedicated to the fight against the COVID, but dedicated only to medical issues, and therefore above all to testing. We've been talking about testing from the beginning. Therefore, once again, we are asking for this money to be used to test medical personnel, but also for those who look after their children until their first year of life. We're talking about mothers and fathers, parents who don't have access to their children, just recently born, lying in hospitals, often in incubators. Mother or father's access is now limited because of the epidemic. But according to the senators and the committee, it is possible to test these parents and not restrict their access to their own children. It just seems inhuman to us. Therefore, we propose to go back to testing, to include medical personnel primarily in testing, but also to extend testing to some other groups. I think I said everything briefly. I would like to thank the entire Health Committee and the legislator. We've really worked really hard all weekend to make it to the committee meeting tonight at 10:00. We have tried so to improve the records, to make amendments that will not be controversial, but which clearly show that we care about health protection and that medical workers are the most important to us at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator, for your extensive report and thank you for the great effort that the committee has actually put in in this short time, because you have been working all weekend and almost tonight, you have finished just before the committee meeting. By the way, I welcome the authorised representatives of the applicants, Mr Zdzisław Wolski and Mr Dariusz Klimczak, and Minister Sławomir Gadomski, who also participated very actively in the work of this committee. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Did... The question will be asked by Senator Chybick, remotely. Please, Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u4	Mr. Marshal, thank you for giving me the floor. Ladies and gentlemen! Madam Rapporteur! I have the following questions. Question one: did the committee's meeting mention why, for a period of several months since May, the government, not Members, has not created a law that has been consulted socially over the past few months, discussed with the medical staff, discussed with the citizens, discussed with non-governmental organisations in such a way that it would not be necessary for almost five hours, or perhaps even more, to make very significant amendments? Question two: was there a talk about a very important topic, namely the medical staff he will be working in field hospitals? Today was the meeting of the Parliamentary Group. The children, where Professor Krzysztof Simon said what he said from the very beginning. But to be honest, as a doctor with 45 years of practice, I was amazed at the number of drugs, treatments, fights, in short, about the lives of patients with COVID. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible for life to be saved by a trained surgeon or dermatologist, even best. Trained, even better, now in, I don't know, a few days, hours, weeks. Was there a speech about it? And I'm finally gonna go back to testing. Because testing is a key issue, which from the beginning all experts, such as Professor Simon, Paweł Grzesiowski and many other managers of infectious diseases clinics, were honking. They said you had to catch up. Was there a speech about it? Has anyone explained why society has not been tested? Why can we not now send to work people who are after the COVID, and mark them in any way, so that it is known that they do not infect, and isolate absolutely and immediately those who spread? There are ways. This isn't the time you don't know all this. The virus has become known. He's mean, he's mean, he's mean, but what I'm talking about can be done. [[Senator, one minute...]] Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u5	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u6	About why there hasn't been a bill before, I think I said. We were even surprised that this was a parliamentary project, because it affects not only the matter of health protection, but also, as I said, many other laws, construction law, business law, etc. So this is a combination of various proposals that have been included under the motto of supporting the fight against COVID and dedicated, you can say, the Health Commission. Well, we're in position too. I am sure that such a strategy and earlier legislative measures should have taken place at least 2 months ago. We didn't work in August. I think all senators and Members would be happy to come if such a government project were to remain We've been introduced. And then we could calmly today, in the fall, be prepared, not look for employees, give announcements who wants to work at the National Stadium. So it's definitely too late. Why this happened, it'll be a question to the minister rather than to me. I think it's something that absolutely shouldn't have happened. You asked the senator about the employees who are supposed to be working in the field hospitals. Here is, among other things. The idea that a voivode should delegate, could delegate workers for a higher salary, was absolutely rejected by the committee. We don't want, we don't allow employees who work on the COVID epidemic to be split up because of the funds and the wages they're about to get. Also, please remember that medical personnel are some limited number of people, limited pool. If they are moved to work in a stadium in a field hospital, they will automatically leave the jobs they have worked in. These are not some extra workers, except probably a small group of foreigners, who also have an easier job to work here. But I don't believe that foreigners are going to be the number of employees we're going to need for the next few months. So that's very delicate matter. And such, I would say, raising employees with higher wages has met with absolute opposition from the Health Committee. Especially since those who work with patients with COVID are not only employees who will work in these rapidly emerging and very needed field hospitals. These are also people working in wards that are currently being formed in hospitals, in infectious wards. They are also people who work in the SORs and who are even more vulnerable than those who work in these single name hospitals, because they very often do not even know that the patient is infected. And this work with patients who are not yet diagnosed is much more stressful and more difficult than the work of people who are already prepared, equipped with adequate personal protective equipment and prepared only for this work. But, yes, there were proposals that the voivodeship's decision should make those people who are sent to field hospitals pay a higher wage. And there was an absolute opposition. As for testing this, Senator, all those who work in the Health Committee have said from the beginning that an epidemic should be managed. This management was lacking from the very beginning. The only situation we agree on is that there's been a lockdown and we're all at home. It's just that this time wasn't used properly later, because those few months when there wasn't any equipment, when you had to get ventilators, masks, and you don't know what it was, it was that time... It was a thing that the Ministry of Health had to do, but I guess it wasn't like all the ministers were ordering these ventilators, but they were also working on other subjects. So the fact that there was no strategy at the right time, and the fact that this epidemic hasn't been managed since the very beginning, like this. They've made countries that are now proud to somehow overcome this epidemic... It was about 3 elements: test, isolate and monitor. These were the three most important challenges we've been talking about from the very beginning, that we have to do this. At the meeting of the Health Committee, because, as I said, this project with the special fund was submitted, we raised the question of testing as very important. The Minister replied that, as far as medical workers are concerned, they could be tested and there is no problem with that, but at the committee meeting there were votes against, i.e. that we know such facilities and places where the medical environment is not being tested and for various reasons. That's one thing. Secondly, the Minister also said that when it comes to testing strategies, the health ministry's strategy is different. I think it's different than an expert strategy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u7	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Paweł Arndt, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u8	Hello... [[I can hear you.]] Mr. Senator, you were talking about the need to improve the situation of medical personnel. I just received a brief information from a medical officer. Maybe I'll read it: "I'm only a contract employee. I had 10 days of quarantine this month because I had contact at work. After 6 days, it turned out that the COVID test was positive. Another 10 days off work. No compensation. Is this law guaranteeing the rights of medical workers like the one I was talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u9	Yes, Mr. Senator. We have talked about this and have aligned the rights of employees who have a contract of employment and those of other forms of employment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u10	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u11	Madam President, thank you for the work that the President and the Committee have done. I have two questions. In the course of the committee's work on this project, did government representatives make available to the members of the Health Committee any analyses, e.g. Mathematical, as regards the increase in infections in the coming days, weeks, months, they used them to assess whether the project is really appropriate to the scale of the challenges? And second question. Madam President spoke of seniors, also in the context of the fact that as few people as possible would go to hospitals. Has the Ministry made available any data on the number of people who, due to age, have received free vaccinations and who have reported a desire to inoculate themselves with the flu? How many of these people have already been vaccinated? How is this part of the health care involved in providing free vaccinations for the influenza for seniors implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u12	Thank you very much. No, the government did not provide us with any analyses, no epidemic graphs or predictions in the coming months. He didn't present any versions either. A or B. Mr. Senator, I think this project is not really a strategic solution. This is a project that puts out fires. We are currently dealing with a huge medical crisis, and this project is mainly devoted to so that we can reshuffle workers in different places as soon as possible, as I say, with limited numbers. This is not a strategic project where one could discuss whether one should choose one or another. Depending on the increase in the number of infections. No, it wasn't that kind of conversation. This is a project that actually reduces the effects of the crisis that already exists. It's already happening, this crisis exists right now. We are helping the government and all those in crisis at the moment, but these are not strategic solutions based on some guidelines of epidemiologists or scientific expertise. As for seniors, this topic was raised primarily in the context of the special purpose fund and testing. One of the records, one of the points also concerns the possibility of testing seniors. We know what happened at the beginning when the seniors weren't tested. In the DPS, there were fires that resulted in an outbreak. That is why we have included seniors here, given above all preventive measures, i.e. vaccinations or testing of this group. The Minister referred very skeptically to the testing of seniors, indicating that this would be too much financial burden. Actually, I didn't hear anything else about it. On the other hand, vaccination for influenza Mr. Senator asked me that, too. This is precisely the question at the Health Committee's meeting, but using the opportunity to speak here, I would like to say that I myself asked the Minister of Health to give a detailed presentation of what part of the prescriptions that were issued by doctors were de facto implemented.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u13	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question about the art. 46b of this 2008 law, which is amended here. It is about adding new provisions, including the wording that triggered a certain public debate. It's in the article. 46b (4) is replaced by the following: The following point 4a is inserted after point 4: "the obligation to apply certain preventive measures and treatments." It's caused a huge discussion. I think that all of us senators have received e-mails and signals from citizens who believe that this entry literally means forced vaccination with a vaccine that is de facto not yet available. It is not known when this vaccine will be, but such a record would already function in Polish law. Was there a discussion about this? And maybe the senator would like to explain what these medical procedures are all about... Is there also vaccination, or is it part of this provision, or would it require a separate clarification? I think this is an important question for many people who have doubts and concerns about this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u15	Yes, Mr. Senator, there was a very lively discussion at this point. To be honest, when I read this bill, after work in the Seym... I think that I did not even notice these records, but when I read into it and it turned out that it was about preventive benefits and procedures, I was really terrified, too, or that we were taking things too restrictively. Especially since the entire bill is really prescriptive-restrictive. I would also like to stress with all my power that I do not see here such a direction of support, a motivational direction, but rather, I would say, a small dictatorship: that is the way it is to be, and that is the end, because that is what we think. I think this is a bad direction of management at all, because in an epidemic state, trust should be built in a state of crisis, not a system that, however, makes the public wonder if there is definitely no other bottom in individual articles. That's exactly the problem you're talking about. He really was very upset by the environment, not just medical. I received a lot of questions, there were doubts. Please note that anti-vaccine movements are only waiting for different types of culture at the moment to further develop. It's on one side. On the other hand, let us remember that we are in the midst of an epidemic and that the vaccine can save our lives. So these are very important topics. I asked the Minister what he means by the concept of prevention and treatment. Well, in this way we open a catalogue of various benefits and procedures very widely, for which I have doubts as well. A little bit to my surprise, the Minister said that he wasn't even thinking about vaccinations, but about other preventive benefits like disinfection, ozonization of rooms, and all that's meant to fight the coronavirus. However, this is a very delicate record that can give rise to many concerns among society. To calm down, I want to say two things. Firstly, such a provision has been in force since 2008 in the Law on Infections and Diseases. Secondly, since we're talking about vaccinations, as far as I know, and I hope I know very well when vaccinations are put on the list, it's a mandatory vaccination calendar, then there's got to be a statutory change.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u16	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Jackowski on behalf of Senator Swede? [[Voice from the room: He wanted to ask.]] [[I'd just like to ask.]] Well, 30 seconds, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will yet see what is raised in this argument, because it is important, and in these fears presented. The statement by President Andrzej Duda, who, in the course of the election campaign, wrote in this way, made a declaration that he would not agree to any compulsory vaccinations. And the citizens are questioning... Well, they ask how you get one to the other. So that I would like to comment on this. And I got the Senator I can assure you of something like this from very different people, absolutely not from a group of people who are so-called. Anti-vaccines, only from very many people who are deeply concerned about this, including those from the medical community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u18	Right, Mr. Senator, you've raised two important points. Firstly, it is a matter of communication, a coherent message that should flow from political and government authorities. If such were to flow, perhaps social trust would be much greater. As for the president... well, I'm a doctor. When I heard the President's statement, I was appalled because for many years we have been building public health and we have been rid of a number of infectious diseases through building public health in recent years. That's what happened because of the vaccinations. It is not easy to build trust, health education and prevention in society, because years of work and education are needed, and this one sentence said by the President unfortunately destroyed our work. And what I can say after working on such an amendment is that I understand that this tightening, if it is to be introduced, will primarily concern the President. Because maybe that's what this is about, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u19	Thank you very much. You ask Senator Swede as the last of the Senator rapporteur's asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the revision of the article. 47. Because one of the positive effects of this regulation is an increase in wages from 150% up to 200% of the basic salary. And I would like to ask whether this was mentioned at the committee meeting, whether the Ministry provided any estimates of how many people this regulation would include and what money would be spent on this purpose.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u21	Mr. Senator, there was a discussion because we discussed the bill point by point and article by article. We talked about equal pay, and that was the basic message that came from the Health Committee. But of course there were no analyses and in-depth reflections, because the whole bill was really... Well, I don't want to say that it's not the result of an in-depth reflection. But it is, as I said, many of the articles that have been inserted, many of the entries that ad hoc had to be adopted very quickly and should be adopted in order to improve the current situation. We at the Health Committee's meeting tried to understand this, but on the other hand we regret that it is not a government project, because then we could ask for analyses, for an assessment of the impact of regulation. There's nothing here. There's no such thing. These are the ideas that Members have put forward, and we really can't find out anything else from them. This is the parliamentary project, I repeat once again. And I think if it were a government project, then such analyses could come up and be a valuable contribution to this whole bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u22	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to remind you that, after hearing the request made by the rapporteur, the Senate will decide to proceed to the second reading of the bill without first reading. I am talking about an initiative under Article. 69 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which the senator mentioned at the very beginning of her speech. We therefore proceed with the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Who among your senators is in favour of entering the second reading of the bill described in print No 238 will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 83 senators voted, 47 were in favour, 30 against, 6 abstained. [[Voting No 2]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has supplemented the agenda with a point: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. This will be the second item on the agenda. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Dariusz Klimczak has been authorised to present the position of the applicant for the draft Parliamentary Law No 685. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? Yes. So is Mr Wolski. One thing at a time, don't worry. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u23	You're welcome, Mr. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u24	Dear Marshal, High Senate! In the beginning, I would like to thank you very warmly for the pace of work, for your agreement, and for the procedure of proceding, for the fact that we, representatives of opposition clubs in the Sejm, who have submitted their draft laws and who have worked together on the project of the leading governing party, have the opportunity to take the floor and present our thoughts to you, not only as a result of the bill presented but also from the work that took place in the Sejm. For this, I would like to thank the marshal, the President of the Committee on Health, all the ladies and gentlemen of the Senators who worked intensively in this committee and the House as a whole. Ladies and gentlemen, the law on which we all come to work is a law which is not a miracle medicine, it is not a remedy for the current situation, it is an emergency, late action, a response to the crisis that we have had in our country for at least a few months. I am talking about this because the law proposed by the coalition club Poland Polish People's Party (Polish People's Party) Kukiz'15, presented at the turn of March and April. This was already the time when problems arose in the health care system, and not only in hospitals, in stationary medicine, but also in primary health care facilities, in specialists, in social care homes, there were particularly intensified problems, and among all health care workers. Even then, diagnosing the coming, even more troubles, we asked to honor these people with a special bonus, an addition of PLN 1 000 500. We did not differentiate them, as is the case in the present law, on those who are designated, posted, but we wanted to honor everyone. We see, especially today, in autumn, when every day there are very many infections, which are problems in the normal functioning of the health system. And the senators, and we Members, in our current parliamentary work, have signals about the problems we face. the functioning of health inspection or the day-to-day operation of social assistance homes. From many parts of our country there are signals that crisis management does not work because there are no people who would be willing to support at work or replace those who are isolated, quarantined or normally in the world are sick. Therefore, I would like to recommend to you at least in the form of an amendment to these issues, which will be signalled by the Senators of the Polish Coalition, those who do not differentiate between health care professionals, so that in a situation where a fire must be extinguished, when it is necessary to respond to problems that have occurred for a long time, treat many workers equally. And as we have managed to establish dialogue not only with representatives of opposition clubs, but also with the government when working in committee, so we would like all the thoughts or issues for which there was space at the Senate at the stage of the work, but not the majority in the Seym, to find this majority in the Senate. And as was the case with the inclusion of voluntary firefighters in the regulation, which guarantees 100 percent pay for time spent in isolation or quarantine when it was working to combat the epidemic... This is a good example for other amendments. Many of them failed to push through. I hope that they will find understanding in this House. It goes on, among other things. on matters relating to Article. 37a of the Penal Code or the problems that the medical and nursing authorities indicated, special activity in this respect is shown by the National Association of Nurses and Obstetrics. There are no system changes in the medical rescue system. Hand-held, forceful action will not replace forward-looking thinking. I would also like to draw attention to this issue. The same as the problem that has been raised during this work and is also being discussed today, i.e. including a private health system in helping all those who do not have COVID, but have a number of other diseases, and today they bounce from the office doors or receive a refusal in terms of scheduled procedures. These were the issues that we drew attention to during our work in the Sejm, in committee meetings. I hope so, too. Anyway, I recommend it. In order to draw attention to these issues here in the Upper House, because the situation is really very difficult and most Poles operate today in Poland as if health care were not there, people care about themselves in such a way that they do not need to be forced to go to a doctor, to treatment, because today it is extremely difficult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u25	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. At present, senators can report... Excuse me? [[Voice in the Chamber: So far, questions for Mr...]] [[Voice from the O.R.: But for now...]] [[Voice from the room: Not yet.]] [[Voice from the Chamber:... to the Member, and then...]] Yes, but I've noticed that you're waving your hand hard, which might indicate that you have a problem, so I wanted to solve it. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is Mr...]] I know that this is a Member, but this is not the point where you will be asked to speak. There's no trickery here, it's just another model of proceding. Is the matter settled? [[Voice from the Chamber: In a moment, Mr. Speaker.]] Yes, sir. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador. You Members are not used to our slightly different method of working in the Senate than it is in the Lower House. That's why it's not personal, believe me. Back to our senate procedure. Currently, senators may submit from a place of no more than a minute's duration a request to the authorised representative of the applicants of the draft from Seym Printing No 685, by Mr Dariusz Klimczak, related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. We're collecting more names. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't. Okay. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u26	I would like to ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak... Because, as the Member has said, you have already presented your project for the hero of the premium in spring this year. And he didn't differentiate medical personnel, he didn't introduce unnecessary emotions in this environment. What were the arguments for this project not to be proceded then and for this differentiation, well, in fact, in some part of it still to be maintained? And the other thing. The Member also spoke about the problem of non-fulfilment of scheduled procedures. Did the government's representatives answer that question somehow, point to the scope of unfulfilled procedures? Do we have any analysis in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to answer me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u28	Thank you very much, senator, for this question. Unfortunately, we did not get an answer to the question of why our project had not been processed from the very beginning. We are pleased that it has been included in parliamentary work now. We think it's late. And the partial regulation of this issue is insufficient and differentiates health care professionals. I hope that today you will have an answer to this question. I hope it's not a question of money. With regard to the second question, unfortunately, we also did not get an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. Please ask me to ask you a question... Senator Jackowski volunteered for the question, but he left. [[When he gets back, I'll answer.]] But since there are no other questions, I'm afraid... Unless... [[Voice from the room: Maybe in a minute.]] There are no other questions, Mr President, and I will therefore be forced to ask you to return to your seat. [[Thank you.]] And now... Mr Zdzisław Wolski has been authorized to present the position of the petitioners of the Parliament's draft law from the Parliamentary Printing Act No 684. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? We already know that the Member wishes to speak. You're welcome, Mr. Speaker.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u30	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for inviting me. The subject, as my previous speakers have said, is huge, wide, concerning not only the Minister of Health and the scope of his activities, but also very many other resorts. The changes that are proposed in this Act concern many other laws and this is a very comprehensive subject. And, like some of the previous speakers, I regret that we, Members, received this at the last minute, having very little time to read it, just like the senators. This took place at the meeting of the committee in which Minister Gadomski here attended. We have not been able to explain many things at the session of the Parliament's Health Committee, let alone propose changes, because many issues simply And here I understand the Minister, he was out of his league. I'm talking about a variety of decisions, financial commitments, about which, for example, the finance minister should... There were public contracts here. This too, in general terms, cannot be decided by the government through the Deputy Minister of Health. There were various financial matters for which the Minister of Labour should take a position. And that's how it happened. You have made some improvements at the Health Committee meeting, and you will probably do some improvements in a few moments. In advance, I declare that if the work carried out also by other groups starts, not just my own, or left, to correct what is wrong in this law, or other issues, we declare our cooperation with any other political force. Because we've wasted a lot of time. I say this, with great regret, to the government. We had this spring epidemic phase. Then we were disciplined as a society. The present catastrophic visions for happiness did not come true, but it was thanks above all to our disciplined citizens, various activities on their own manufacturers of masks, trimmings, etc. We remember all that. But then they all claimed that the second wave of epidemics would inevitably come. And at that time, our government underestimated the case, was busy with the presidential elections first, and within this political purpose... We remember not only the issue of vaccination mentioned here, some disrespectful and very harmful to public health statements, such as the President of the Republic of Poland, but also making fun of masks sometimes. Because the issue of masks is about our initiative. Or saying that the epidemic is actually ending... And then the decision to send the kids to school. It's a river theme again. Unprotected in genetic tests. And all of this. Mom's effects. The government, which is responsible for the fight against the pandemic, has done almost nothing at the time to, for example, strengthen staff health care, which has not been able to carry out tasks, despite working after hours, starting married couples, sometimes children... I'm a doctor, I have these contacts, I know that's what happened. It was known that when the epidemic came, there would be no place in the ICU. And it's not about the ventilators, because it's just a device. It's about full instrumentation and above all anesthesiologists, anesthesiologists. In those many, many months that we wasted, we could train nurses to have partial anesthesiology privileges at some speed. It wasn't done. Any strategies to fight the epidemic that have been and the spring, and recently, can be treated rather as documents above all piar. When it comes down to it, it turns out we're building hospitals right now, at the National Stadium, somewhere... Well, beds can be set up, TV will arrive one way or another, interviews can be given when setting up beds... But it's just a bed. Where's the rest of them, where's the staff, for instance? These cases were also discussed. So as not to abuse your hospitality... Even such a simple thing, in the spring, the Prime Minister was not able to effectively enforce... I am talking here about the Council of Ministers regulation to order masks and a statutory delegation in the law on preventing and combating infectious diseases and infections in humans. There the delegation turned out to be too weak and we know the cases that the police, in a very ungrateful role, imposed various penalties, so-called. fines, and then in court, those penalties were remitted because, according to the letter of the law that is still in force, there are no explicit provisions in this law, which was once adopted. We were proposing, as the left, in our bill, to make it clear. Like I said, I don't want to take too much time here... And the other thing. We remember, there have been cases like this, and it's also in the media that it was loud about, as a nice salesman refused to sell the goods to a customer. I bet he wanted to buy a beer. Because he wasn't wearing a mask. The effect was that she was the one who was being punished, not that client. There is also a clear regulation of this issue in our proposal. In fact, Mr. Marshal, I will say this: I am a very experienced doctor; of course we would not have avoided the epidemic, because it would have to be, but we have come to such a situation that the government, let us not be enchanted, absolutely not in control of the epidemic. It's not like we're somehow managing this COVID virus, it's a virus. He's in charge of us. All that's left for us is a desperate defense, evasive... And since there's no effective cure, the vaccine... Yeah, I'm sure it will be, but when? Next year? In fact, in a medical sense, we can offer little or almost nothing real but to save the lives of those who suffer from a severe illness. And I assure you, these are the last days when we or government representatives can say that there are available seats in the ICU because this will end. Well, at least here, the law of great numbers... The same will happen in hospitals. We're gonna pretend there's free hospital beds 'cause you're gonna set them up, but these aren't real hospital places. All we have left is slowing down... We know that the only method is the famous 3 rules: distance, disinfection and masks. And we were just proposing that in this law, which we are proceeding to amend the law on so-called. infectious diseases, the record was clear. In addition, we suggested that in the case of expeditions... Although, of course, it is not only about ladies selling in shops, but also about various types of services, sales, etc. The point is that the authorities appointed to do so should be able to impose penalties effectively in an undisputed way. Here, at the end of the day, I appeal. Maybe I understand young people who know that the danger to them is actually very small when it comes to heavy behavior, let's do it all for seniors, not only for seniors, but for people with oncology, for those who have reduced immunity. The last remark is about masks. We fight, we fight to convince people to distance, to social isolation, as long as the epidemic continues, because it takes a long time, and at the same time the Constitutional Tribunal has a political decision. After all, we know what it's like He suddenly passed a judgment, a judgment that... for everyone it was obvious that it would result in violent protests of distraught, shocked women that these women would go out on the street. And that's what's going on. And that's what I'm complaining about, except for the fact in a substantive sense, how it could have been done at a time like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u31	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit from a place of no more than a minute of query to the authorised representative of the applicants of the draft from Seym printing No 684, Mr Zdzisław Wolski, related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, sir. [[Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Sławomir Gadomski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u32	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to stress briefly why, for us as a government party, this law is primarily important or critical. I've listened to the questions and I think they've said a few questions, they'll be asked again. So I am at your disposal as in the work of the Parliamentary Committee on Health, where we have really spent a lot of time discussing many of the solutions contained in this law. Similarly today at the Senate Committee meeting, I have also tried to be at your disposal and to share some issues with you. I hope, in such a substantive, substantive discussion, to work out. This law, just as it came out of this pulpit today, is, of course, to a certain extent an intervention law, a prescriptive law. But we must also remember at what point we are and what challenges we must face today. The scale of this pandemic, I think, is greater than our assumptions about its development, we're not hiding it. We are not the only country in which this scale has proven to be significantly greater than certain expectations than certain forecasts than certain estimates. But the prescription of this law and the solution, perhaps restrictive, enabling e.g. taking certain measures by the Minister of Health or taking action by the voivodships is only one side of this law. The other side of this bill is, in simple terms, colloquially speaking, the stick I was talking about, but also the carrot. This law contains an important catalogue of some motivations, an important catalogue of actions to ensure that, above all, people, workers involved in the fight against COVID They will have an additional incentive, whether it is the financial incentive referred to, e.g. with an increase in medical staff's salary from the current level of 150% remuneration up to 200%, whether related to the introduction of payment solutions, e.g. 100% right salaries, salaries in the case of quarantine or isolation of persons associated with such professions, in particular police officers, Border Guards, State Fire Guards, State Protection Service, but also, as a result of the amendments introduced in the Seym, Prison Service or voluntary fire services, and thus to be entitled to a benefit of 100% salaries in the case of quarantine or isolation. This law is also, and maybe above all, because it is one of the mechanisms which I believe was the basis, the foundation of this law, the principle of a good Samaritan. It is the exclusion during the pandemic of criminal liability of medical personnel fighting the epidemic. I think we're discussing these solutions. Ms Malecka-Libera spoke about this from this speaker It's been going on for a long time. The medical authorities, above all, but other professional authorities also, have called for a change of law in this matter, not only in relation to the pandemic. I think the pandemic is the moment when we're ready to turn off this criminal responsibility. This is really linked to a few requests and the possibility that people posted to work in this extraordinary mode are people who may not have the latest, full, according to their specialization medical knowledge in the field of COVID treatment. These are, of course, exceptions, but these exceptions may happen, we are aware of that, and this law allows such persons to be deployed extensively. The exclusion of criminal liability is primarily a tribute to these people, but not only. It is also a bow and right for those who have full knowledge of current, say, trends or current methods of fighting COVID, but they are people who may be forced to work in over-standard mode, in such a way, when patients on beds will be more than under such normal conditions than according to standards, according to the requirements that are currently defined. There have been voices regarding whether this principle introduced in this bill meets the expectations of local governments, in particular the General Medical Council. But I would like to point out that the position of the Chief Medical Council on this project, which is critical in some sense also, in principle, of a good Samaritan, has extended the catalogue of exclusion of liability primarily for the exclusion of civil liability, professional liability. And I think that both the Sejm Health Committee and, in particular, the members of the opposition clubs who made such an expansion amendment in the first version... After hearing the Government's position and hearing the Ombudsman's position, they withdrew from this amendment. They felt that the solutions contained in the proposed law were a compromise, a consensus that today, let's say, is applicable. A similar discussion took place today at the Senate committee meeting. And so, Mr. and Mrs. Senators, you haven't made up your mind. On the grounds of whether or not to mention support for the position of the ombudsperson on patients' rights - to extend these records. This shows that we have some consensus on what is possible today, in times of pandemic, in times of epidemic threat. This bill is still a few provisions that allow for some, let's say, wider interventions. For example, although not discussed today in the Senate, the army's participation in the collection of swabs. Here, the strategy to support, above all, the medical rescuers of the patients' smearing points is one of those aspects that we would like to make very easy. Because we would like to relieve the burden of medical personnel, which can then be redirected to other activities. Such themes, which actually are also the answer to current problems The introduction of a national coordinator of State Medical Rescue is also a problem that we observe in the media. Coordinator, whose responsibilities I hope and hope you will It will allow some control over compliance with those obligations to which rescue and hospitals as healthcare providers are delegated today. It is also, in this respect, some broader possibilities for the National Health Fund to carry out checks or, already in an emergency situation, suspension, or rather the possibility of suspension by the Minister of Health of a healthcare provider who does not fulfil the obligations imposed on him in the fight against COVID. Unfortunately, the Senate Health Commission did not agree with these demands. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that, I think, is very necessary. Here, Madam President, she said that the Senate is helping the rulers in this way. I am convinced that the Senate is helping Polish patients by working substantively and carefully on this law. Not in charge, but in patients Because the arrangements provided for in this Act are intended to serve them, not the rulers, and the rulers possibly give certain intervention tools in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u33	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Wojciech Necessary, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since we're discussing the covid bill today, which is the bill we've been waiting for so long, I'd like to ask you a few questions, because I think there's something missing in it. First question: what is the government's final strategy for dealing with hospitals? Whether hospitals will be converted in such a way that they will be single-named hospitals and will be to them directing patients with diagnosis of COVID-19, possibly with a high probability, or will it be like now that in individual hospitals we create covid troops? Because that's the strategy now. I think I am asking this question on behalf of all hospital directors in Poland who would like to know what they are going to pass on to the crew, what their future fates will be. Could such a list of hospitals possibly have been established and could it be made available? In the spring, the list of single-name hospitals, together with a list of such hospitals, which were then to be included in this system, was. So does this list exist, possibly, or can we get to know it? Second question. What is the estimated number of foreign doctors who can come and support our system, especially with regard to these sensitive specializations, such as internal diseases, infectious diseases, epidemiology, anesthesiology, intensive therapy, i.e. those in which the greatest deficiencies are now? Are there any estimates, or are we simply making these legal regulations aimed at them, not knowing too much what we expect? And we know there's an epidemic out there, too. And one last question. Why the Ministry is opposed to an increase of 15% in hospital lump sum What sounded like at the committee meeting? As we know, we need to increase hospital spending, but we also need to increase salary expenditure. Because even if we vote on what is currently in the law, along with the amendments, there are also health workers, for example. Laborants, physiotherapists, people from transport, people from the administration who also have to work in difficult conditions. Of course, we're not talking about perhaps as big additions or raises as they are for personnel working directly with the sick, but I think they should be supported as well. Besides, it's declared by the government, and hospitals often spend 80.90% the funds from your contract for different wage costs and such an injection would be necessary to appreciate these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u35	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u36	Mr. Senator! High Izbo! I'll try to answer synthetically, I think there'll be more of these questions. About the hospital strategy... This strategy has been presented by us, and at this point this strategy, with some minor modifications, we stick to it, which means that we have designated the hospitals of the first, second and third levels. By simplifying and figuratively translating, you can say that this second level is primarily infectious hospitals and designed directly and exclusively to fight the disease, care for patients of COVID plus. The third level is primarily a large multi-specialist hospital, which in principle is to deal with covid patients, but by securing their needs often resulting from specialist treatment. The first level is primarily hospitals, which are designed to secure insulation sites and in principle not to deal with the covid patient, but can only lead to diagnosis, isolate it, deal with the patient until the infection is confirmed. Of course, this strategy is evolving. This strategy is also evolving due to this rapid increase in infections in recent weeks. We have further solutions in place. One of these solutions is, of course, the built field hospitals. Another solution, which we have already communicated, is the introduction, especially, can be said, apart from the large cities that will be dedicated to these field hospitals, isolated single-name hospitals to fight against COVID, which in some area, for example. it will be one in five county hospitals The National Health Fund has already started such work on the separation or selection of those entities which could be transformed in such a way. In addition, voivodships, in cooperation with healthcare providers, actually allocate certain places, certain branches for covid patients, which may also be in those hospitals at the first level. E.g. The hospital is generally the hospital that does not cure COVID, but the cardiology department in this hospital can be dedicated to patients with COVID. Such solutions are already being introduced today. As for the second question, the number of foreigners... Well, I think here respect is burdened with a giant mistake and I'm not tempted to give you the number of people, the number of foreigners... But it is also about Poles, because it should be noted that this solution is addressed not only to foreigners, but also to Poles who studied abroad and would like to return to Poland. I'm not tempted to respect that number. I think that this law creates a possibility, a certain law, and how many people will benefit from it, we will see in the future. As for the lump sum, I have already expressed my position at the Senate committee meeting today. I believe that, against many hospitals, it would be unfair for many medicinal entities to treat all equally and put in one bag, to increase all valuations by a certain percentage, and in this case, as I understand it, there is a proposal to increase by 15%. I believe that there are medicinal entities who have been fighting from the very beginning since March to maintain the full continuity of the services provided, and unfortunately there are also examples of this. It's the opposite of the other side. Where hospitals regularly suspend the activities of certain branches because they may not have been able to introduce certain security procedures, they could not guarantee full availability of services to staff and patients. It would be unfair to treat everyone today with one more price, as I believe it would be unfair. Furthermore, we have extended the settlement period, given the possibility of extending the settlement period in terms of lump sums by the middle of the following year. Perhaps having this time ahead of us, and actually not perhaps, but certainly, we will introduce some solutions that will somehow assess the activity of these entities, so as to make up for those who have put more effort into maintaining continuity. I also want to point out that this year... It is not that the Ministry, the National Health Fund, did not allocate any funds to the fight against COVID, because all hospitals received double price increases, once by 3% from, apparently, April 1 and the second time, another 3% increase, from July 1 to July 6%. It was only to secure the fight against COVID, because I am not talking about the cleared procedures for covid services or the benefits related to maintaining infrastructure readiness, e.g. with the purchase of beds, for the purpose of fighting COVID, because these are financed in a separate way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about a question that has caused a slight controversy or surprise, which concerns the integration into the whole system of hospitals or institutions, more generally, of private health services. This is, of course, the right direction and cannot be criticised, also commendable, in terms of all these companies and entities that are involved. It was supposed to be... I have heard that there have been such demands that these facilities, which are generally not prepared for 24/7 long-term care of patients, take over from the public health care sphere the care of patients who have other diseases than COVID-19. Well, there's a growing problem here, too. And we're taking care of... You are right to deal with the epidemic and its consequences, but people also suffer from other illnesses. It was thought that this solution would be more functional. I would like to ask: why hasn't this been done? That's the first question. Second question, very important. Namely, it is the appointment of hospitals which are to have a certain pool of covid beds. Well, there's a different way of judging it, and I'm looking at it positively, but we all know that square meters... the number of beds doesn't dictate the effectiveness of protecting citizens here, because mostly people are needed, but people need nothing. They won't if they don't have the equipment. In many of these hospitals there's just no equipment, there's beds, but there's no equipment. For example, I recently visited the county hospital in Lodz, in the county of Lodz in northern Wielkopolska, and there everything, as I saw, is well prepared. Everyone has such optimism in themselves, has volunteered to work even many volunteers, not just people who should work there because of their employment contract. Yeah, but there's a shortage of equipment like that. Ozonators, ultrasound cameras, and, of course, what they stress, is very important in the first place, that is to say. digital X-rays. Are you predicting that these county hospitals will be armed with the necessary equipment that will give these people, namely doctors, nurses and all those who help patients, the chance to give the sick an effective help? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u40	Thank you. Mr Senator, the thread on the possibility for the private sector to support the public system is indeed very interesting. This would probably be desirable from the point of view of the maximum possible availability of benefits. Today, after our recent discussions with the private sector, after last week's decision with the representatives... In this case, it is the employers of the Republic of Poland, but we also talked to representatives of a significant part of the private sector in the field of hospitalization and agreed on rules to support the treatment of covid patients. I think this is the first step that this is the answer to this, you can say, the most urgent need. We are discussing this because it is a continuous process, and in fact it is also about other possibilities of support. I, Senator, will jump for a moment to the beginning of the speech by Mrs Libera, because I think my words from the Health Committee have been somewhat distorted. Speaking of the fact that the Ministry of Health is not proposing today such a comprehensive strategy to take care of patients with other diseases than COVID, those patients who, especially during the autumn period, face difficulties in obtaining continuity of benefits... We can see that the number of benefits has decreased in practically every area from POZ, through outpatient specialist care, to hospital procedures especially between March and April. Speaking of the absence of a certain systemic strategy, the absence of such a recovery plan for health, I pointed out that today's intensity of pandemics makes all this impossible. And it's not about introducing it by the Ministry of Health, it's about implementing it by healthcare providers who can't operate in many areas as we imagined. Such a strategy was developed at the Ministry of Health at the end of the holiday, at the turn of August and September. Well, one of the tools that we were prepared to finance very strongly or implement, were unlimited benefits, which were to be available to a wider extent than today. This was one of the tools to be made available to the private sector as well. There is no distinction between the public and private sectors here. All those who would be willing to provide such benefits could be provided with such tools. Other solutions are e.g. a premium for overrealization of benefits or some incentives for prevention. These solutions in the assessment of the Ministry of Health are today difficult to accept for most healthcare providers who themselves have problems with maintaining continuity, with maintaining staff, with certain challenges related to isolation or quarantine of medical personnel. Well, it seems that we need to slow down this effect of recent weeks, the effect of pandemics, control the scale of growth, and then move on to this strategy. Perhaps, Senator, we will involve the private sector in an important way. As for the second question, we have been taking care of equipment from the very beginning of the pandemic. Here, of course, it is primarily about hospitals with a single name, about infectious hospitals that were designed to fight against COVID. There was a lot of support there, such as oxygen infrastructure or imaging diagnostic infrastructure. A lot of resources have been directed to CT scans. We continue with this support. As a budgetary supervisor at the Ministry of Health, I practically carry out every day whether I accept such requests from various hospitals, in particular those listed by the voivodships on the list of hospitals to be dealt with by COVID-19. The voivodships also deal with this, because such applications are often addressed to them, as well as to the marshals of voivodships. We know very well, having a review from the coordination committee of EU funds, that also the Marshals of voivodships, for example in the framework of regional operational programmes, have directed very large resources to equip these units.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u42	Minister, I have a communication from the Minister of Finance on the budget law for 2021 and an increase in expenditure on health finance. That's 104%. So we're talking 4%. Do you think this is appropriate to the scale of the challenges? Have you analysed the situation of health care institutions, mainly hospitals, where local government units as bodies creating independent public health establishments are obliged to cover losses? The local government is now in a dramatic situation as a result of a reduction in the revenues to the budgets of local governments. Are there any forms of support here? That's one thing. Secondly, do you foresee adjustments to the valuation of medical benefits and procedures? I'm asking because we're dealing with situations like this, even like an outpost or a family doctor. it does not deal with covid patients, it still has more funding for providing care, even in the form of more personal security costs. I, of course, know where your help goes, especially to single-name hospitals. It's important and valuable, but it doesn't go anywhere. And the third thing. Does the resort analyze the situation and if so, what conclusions does it draw from the analysis? What do we do to collapse in certain operations, treatments, research that was seen in the course of the covid months... to compensate for that somehow? If we look at the statistics on the month of March, April in the context of the DiLO procedure launched in the case of oncology patients, we see the declines there during the first months. Do you have that in mind, and do you have any suggestions for getting out of this situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u43	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u44	Mr. Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm surprised to hear from the senator about the 4%. It's over, but I'll give you the data. The plan for health expenditure for 2020 assumed PLN 107 billion. The investment plan for 2021, if I remember correctly, assumed PLN 120.7 billion, i.e. about PLN 13.14 billion more, which represents more than 10 or 11% height. That's why I'm surprised. Not only do I have such estimates and knowledge, but I also present them. It is worth noting that there may be a breach of data here. I urge you here to make a clear interpretation. Both the expenditure that we show as being carried out in 2020 and the expenditure that we are planning for 2021 are, in principle, expenditure without the means to fight COVID. It must be borne in mind that when health expenditure of 107 billion in 2020 was planned, these measures were not taken into account. They are also not presented by us today in some reports on health expenditure. We have already spent over 6 billion because of the use of covid funds. I do not mention the special provisions, the EU funds or the expenditure shifted from the budget. That is how I am able to address this issue in a hot way. As for valuation adjustments and some material assistance, as I said, in answer to previous questions, a 3-percent increase... There were two covid raises this year. The first 3-percent increase in the valuations concerned hospitals and increases in hospital lump sums. The second increase concerned all providers, including POZ. This was also a 3% increase, mainly dedicated to the provision of personal protective equipment and the implementation of certain safety procedures. But we must bear in mind the fact that a huge number of institutions, not only hospitals, but also POZ and clinics, received personal protective equipment from us. Moreover, we continue to provide these resources to medical entities. As for support for local governments, this is a systemic topic, this is a really difficult topic, this is probably related to the overall restructuring of hospitals. Minister Niedzielski, as soon as he took office, announced that this is one of our priorities that we want to address now and here, but unfortunately this pandemic, which kind of roughed us up a bit, I think, causes some delays in this project, delays in a project in which we are thinking about some systemic, smart, supported tools for monitoring and controlling the debt of hospitals. The details of this project were to be shown in the fourth quarter, perhaps we could drag it to the first quarter. As for the collapse, I was also talking about this recovery plan that we were going to present, and I'm going back to that. This directory of actions has been defined. This is a directory. activities related to unlimited benefits, with a premium for over-implementation of procedures, if someone can catch up with this hill, with incentives for prevention, with systemic support for areas of cardiology and oncology, where some systemic changes that were to be implemented only after the oncology pilotage was completed, we were ready to implement now, or some changes in the acceleration of planned changes in psychiatry, which we have already announced... But, as I am saying, it seems that today, above all, it can be very difficult on the part of healthcare providers to absorb these changes, which is why we are not yet presenting this strategy. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u45	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u46	I'm sorry, I'll ask, in the context of what the Minister said... I have an open web site www.mf. gov.pl, which is the official website of the Ministry of Finance, where we have a notice published on 28 September that the Council of Ministers adopted a draft budget law for 2021. And in this communication, I read: increasing expenditure on health funding to 5.3% GDP (Budgetary expenditure will increase by around PLN 11.6 billion compared to 2020 i.e. 104% increase ). That's why my question was.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u47	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u48	I cannot relate here to this scale of growth, because, as I say, the planned expenditure for 2020 was PLN 107 billion, between 107 and 120 we have approx. So that's an increase of 11 to 12% for me. But, Senator, let me explain. Maybe I do not see a certain nuance of spending allocation in this communication, I will try to explain it, we have before us a review of the budget law, so I think that... [[I, of course, don't have any doubts, I keep my fingers crossed to make it more so that you're right, not the finance minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u49	Thank you, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u50	Minister, I understand that this bill is an important element, it is the implementation of a strategy against the coronavirus, which the Prime Minister recently presented a few days ago. My question is this... Since this strategy seems more like a rescue programme than a strategy, my question is: why has this strategy not been developed before? Why was August wasted, a hunk of July, the beginning of September, and such a strategy did not appear? Did you just assume that in the fall nothing Isn't that gonna happen?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u51	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u52	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, it's absolutely not like that. The strategy related to the fight with COVID for autumn was established and was developed by experts just at the turn of August and September. This strategy was also presented by Minister Niedzielski, and this strategy took into account some of the solutions that function in the system today. These solutions are, for example, a specification of these 3 levels of hospitals, which I have already mentioned, the broad involvement of POZ doctors in the fight against COVID, are some tools that we have developed on the part of the Ministry, on the part of the National Health Fund, on the financing of these benefits, both for POZ doctors and for hospitals. I think the only thing we can really say about this strategy is that she was assuming a scenario less black than the one we have today. So this strategy, in our assessment, according to the forecasts we had at the time, according to experts, was actually prepared for a smaller... maybe not a scale of growth, but certainly a lower intensity of these increases. It must also be made clear that both on holiday and in September, we emphasized this very strongly to return to the provision of a bit of services. Even this structure of hospitals, in which we are actually abandoning the conversion of large hospitals into single-name hospitals, dealing only with COVID, and we are transforming them into third-level hospitals, which in principle are to deal with the covid patient, but focus on providing him and other patients with highly specialised treatment, a little bit of medical treatment, that was the answer to this request, to the desire to eliminate, so to speak, this hole, this collapse, as Senator Kwiatkowski said here... it may be too much to say, but the hole in many different medical areas. So I wouldn't like to say... I mean, I can't agree that we haven't been working on solutions. Because these solutions were even presented publicly and discussed in advance with experts. But, as I'm saying, the actions we planned at that time probably related to a smaller scale, a smaller intensity of growth. This probably results from the need to modify these strategies here today. Well, these strategies are not once and for all, these strategies are to be modified. And I think that by reacting to further increases, I hope that we will eventually modify these strategies, rather than the decline in the number of new infections. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u53	Thank you, Minister. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u54	You told the Minister that you didn't expect such an explosion of these infections, that probably this strategy As I understand it, the Minister was not involved in its development at the time, it was calculated on a smaller number, and also that the experts, well, did not suggest that there would be such a bad situation. Can you tell us how many infections you developed this strategy at that time?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u55	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u56	Mr. Senator, I can't answer that right now. I've been involved in the development of... It is not that the strategy concerned a specific number at a specific time. Nevertheless, this strategy in general, so to speak, was about the growth of infections, but less explosive than the one we are dealing with today. [[Then, Mr. Marshal, if I may, I'll finish now, okay?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u57	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u58	Because I needed it here... Well, then I'll let the minister know what you were hoping for and what you neglected. Well, August 31st, on the radio Mr RMF Deputy Minister Kraska, who I believe is a well-informed Deputy Minister, said the following. Namely, first of all, the question was: Minister, are we prepared for a few thousand new cancers a day? Answer: All epidemiologists know so-called. The second wave, I don't think she's gonna be as big as that wave in the spring, I think it's gonna be softer. That's what Minister Kraska said. And yet he said that all epidemiologists know the so-called. Second wave. So the epidemiologists have told you, and you have yours. Because you thought you knew better or that it wasn't worth preparing for such a big wave. Come on. Question. Minister, but do you assume in your studies prepared for autumn several thousand infections a day? 'Cause that's the number the chief health inspector at the Home Office, Marek Posobkiewicz... Former Chief Inspector to make the matter clear. Because if he was present, he wouldn't say anything. Answer: I don't think it should be that much, I think it might be that thousand infections a day. And finally: if today we have 800 and 900 cases, asks a journalist, doing less than 30,000 tests, then it could increase, well, even to 2,000 a day. And the answer: Mr. Editor, I will not be a fortune teller, I will not bet here or predict certain scenarios; perhaps this may happen, but it shows that this number of about 1 thousand should still exist in our country. Minister, I'll be honest with you, I don't even have a question for you. [[Well, Mr. Senator, have they made a mistake?]] Yeah, but... why didn't you believe the epidemiologists? It's just to end.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u59	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u60	Mr. Senator, maybe I'll ask you a question, although that's probably not nice. Which one? Which epidemiologists? Which epidemiologists in Poland talked about such a scale because... [[Minister, I am sorry, I have read the words of the Deputy Minister, not someone on the side, member of the opposition, etc., the words of the Deputy Minister who said: all epidemiologists are known as. The second wave; I don't think she'll be as big as that wave in the spring.]] [[Thank you, Senator.]] I understand that, Senator. Yes, I understood the message presented by Minister Kraska, but I would like to repeat: all experts who took part in the work advised the Minister of Health, forecast teams, teams composed not only of doctors, teams composed of analysts, prognostics from universities in Poland... None of the models that were presented to us assumed such an explosion of growth. I understand that today, October 26th, it's easy to say what it wasn't in August, but I'd be happy to get an opinion. And maybe I'll invite you as the key health minister's expert right away. An epidemiologist who said we'd be struggling with 15,000 infections a day.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u61	Thank you, Minister. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u62	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! After the press release, I will allow myself to go back to the text of the bill, or actually to the amendments that are proposed by the committee. I would ask for a brief statement as to whether the government or the Minister supports these amendments or not. It's about three fundamentals, maybe not essentials, but I think it's important. The first concerns the question of knowledge of Polish by doctors who can come here, to us and help us fight the pandemic, doctors from outside Poland. At the moment in the bill, the amendment assumes that it is to be on the basis of a statement from such a doctor. The amendment actually restores the examination, in practical terms, restores the examination procedure. That's the first line. Second line. The amendment to the Municipal Guards Act proposes to add a point that will enable the voivodeship to use the municipal guards in critical situations, so as to define it. The amendment of the committee may not go as far as softens this power. Voivodeship Yes, but with the permission of the competent territorially elected mayor or mayor of the city. It's so strange that then, in the next sentence, it's written in the novel itself that I inform the governor, the mayor or the president of the city. Yeah, it's a little pointless. What is the Minister's attitude towards this amendment? And the third point, also proposed by the committee. That is, the proposal that the funds derived from fines, let's call it generally "around-video" are transferred to the National Health Fund, by the way, within 30 days. Question: Is it real at all, and will the method of aggregation of funds from these fines be worth playing a candle? Wouldn't that give rise to more problems and costs than just fines?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u63	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u64	Thank you. It should be noted that, both at the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Health and today at the sitting of the Senate Committee, a number of valuable amendments were actually tabled, many of which, with a clear conscience, as a government party, we were ready to accept. Today, the committee was honoured by representatives of the Lower House, in particular Mr Wolski, who represents the Left. Here it is important to be clear: we, as a government party, have accepted all the solutions that the Left has advocated in its parliamentary bill, and we have welcomed them. Similarly, today at the Senate Committee, there was a whole catalogue of amendments on which I actually expressed the positive position of the government, on the one hand considering that many of these solutions are indeed in favour of the law, perhaps providing greater legislative coherence and on the other hand agreeing to some changes in substance. As for these three amendments... Polish language - declaration versus exam. The exam is de facto a form that we have today and which is a standard form. The parliamentary project spoke of a statement by such a person. Of course, in normal times, let's call it that. This exam is a requirement that we absolutely do not want to give up, and it actually ensures that the person speaks Polish enough to communicate with the staff. However, I think you all realize that today this law is not adopted under normal conditions. It is adopted under pandemic conditions, under conditions where we really need to introduce extranormative solutions. This is one of those solutions, in which we are de facto ready to relax certain requirements with full awareness only so as to perhaps overcome these solutions with greater availability of treatment and provide more staff for the treatment of Polish patients. So that our opinion on the amendment is negative. As for the municipal guards... There has already been such a discussion in the Seym, and today it has been repeated in the Senate. A very interesting argument, a very accurate argument was raised by a representative of the Ministry of Interior and Administration, who showed that these powers of the voivodships are not unusual, that the voivodships today in certain states, under certain circumstances such supervision is conducted or may lead. Even today, without changes to this law, they may issue certain binding orders to municipal guards, e.g. in agreement with the police headquarters. So that our solutions are not an unusual exception... I come back: they are solutions, which today the time we are in, in our assessment requires. Thus, the reversal of this order and the introduction of the need to agree whether, with the approval of the authorities directly supervising the municipal guard, it would probably only result in the voivodeship's work being added, and probably often would be wrong. In view of the tasks that the municipal guard could perform - Objections. As for the third amendment related to the transfer of funds to the NCF, the opinion of the government party, my opinion is positive. First of all, the Mother's Law solutions enabled this. The amendment that came to the Senate committee today is a legislative amendment. It moves these laws from the level, if I recall correctly, of the covid bill to the code of offences, which, in the opinion of the legislators, the Senate Legislative Office is perhaps such a more pure form of legislation. As for her, our position is positive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u65	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. I am referring to the element of this amendment designed to ensure decent conditions for medical personnel who are so committed to fighting the pandemic. That's the question I've asked you before, Senator. I'm talking about the revision of the article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1, increase from 150% , as has been the case so far, up to 200% of the basic salary for people sent by the voivod to work related to the fight against COVID. Did the State in the Ministry analyze in any way how many people... Of course, I know that the situation is dynamic, but have you analysed how many people, how many personnel will still have to be directed to fight COVID and what money will be spent for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u67	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u68	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! This question is in a sense difficult not only because of changing circumstances, but also because of what I already explained at the Senate committee meeting, i.e. that the bill concerns the remuneration of some part of the medical staff, those workers posted by the voivodeship. But this is not the whole spectrum of health professionals that will benefit from increased wages. The rate already stands at 150% 'Cause here we have, like, two systems. Today, in the current world, posted workers get 150% , but also under the instructions of the Minister of Health for the National Health Fund of 150% salary received workers involved in the fight against COVID, mainly infectious wards, single-name hospitals. This system, after the entry into force of the Act and, I hope, those provisions that allow a rate of 200% for workers posted by voivodships, will change in the instructions of the Minister of Health addressed to the National Health Fund, so we will repeat these solutions, including those 200% also to ensure balance. We can't estimate that today. I mean, we probably can, but this respect would be a little bit virtual, because, first of all, this scale of posted workers from week to week is actually increasing, secondly, some transformation of the functions of hospitals, dedication, as I said, the creation of new covid branches even in those hospitals that were supposed to not deal with COVID, makes these estimates have to be constantly updated. But what is worth noting is what is very important here and needs to be emphasized is not the funds of the National Health Fund for medical benefits. These are funds from a separate covid fund that we are sending to the NFZ, and the NFZ is a certain sort of, let's say, a clearing agent for these funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u69	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you one more question. I'm talking about the health department. Are you planning to fund the health care system and are you planning to increase health care jobs because of the fact that the health care system is also on the front line, the fight against pandemics?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u71	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u72	Mr. Senator, the health department is actually on the front line against the pandemic, and from the very beginning, there is actually some funding or an increase in the financial capacity of the health centre that we are implementing through the service of the voivodeship's proposals. These applications really come to us, to me above all requests for overtime payments, for increased testing possibilities, requests for infrastructure purchases. Some of the sanepids have prepared locks, tents for picking up drive-thru, labs and expanding test possibilities... These are the categories of purchases that we have already made this year, mainly from the special reserve of the President of the Council of Ministers, which is available or from the funds of the covid fund in this part of the Health that we manage in the Ministry. In addition to this, it may be worth looking at in a slightly longer perspective. For the following year, in the budget law for 2021 we are planning, dare I say, a huge increase in funds for inspections. Today, the financing of inspections is from PLN 1 billion 200 000 to PLN 1 billion 300 000. We are planning to increase these funds by 330 million, to almost PLN 1 billion 600 000, primarily for the increase in salaries of employees. There, in addition to the increases resulting from the impact of the decision already this year, a 15% increase in the remuneration envelope is planned. I don't want to make it clear whether this involves an increase in employment, because it's probably going to be decisions at lower levels by now.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u73	Thank you. Marshal Gabriel Moravian Staneck.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about the article. 14 of this bill. There's a medical emergency shift there. After the article. 37 the following Article shall be inserted: 37a as follows: During the period of notification of an epidemic or epidemic, the medical emergency team shall consist of at least three persons, including at least one professional pilot and medical rescuers or system nurses. I have a question: does this mean that doctors are being eliminated from Air Rescue? Because this record is very precise and sharp. He shows that no doctor will fly in an epidemic in the Air Emergency Room. Is this really a deliberate procedure, or is this some sort of oversight?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u75	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal, this case actually raised doubts, including in the Senate Committee. This record, according to this original sound, is that the airline team consists of at least 3 people, including at least 1 pilot and medical rescuers or system nurses. For us, this record, which was in the mother's bill, was an extension record. In our interpretation, he didn't say there couldn't be a doctor on the team. He said it might be a different squad. As we have come to an agreement here, at the committee level it was made, if I remember correctly, by Senator Gorgon-Komor, an amendment which we corrected at the last moment, just before the vote. And here I have some doubts as to whether this amendment has a certain sound rather than a different one. The one I got from the Legislature Bureau is a little different from the one we worked out on the committee. The amendment made in the committee was to read as follows: with at least 1 professional pilot and doctor of the system and a paramedic or nurse. And the one I got from the Legislator's office is, like, one pilot and a doctor. It's okay. It's okay. And a paramedic. That makes sense that there must be a lifeguard there every time, which wasn't our intention. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Then the nurse would be eliminated.]] A nurse or... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: And the paramedic...]] So I don't think our intention has been fully understood by the Legislative Bureau. I hope this can be corrected. But I'm going back to the main question: no, that wasn't the idea. In the agreement, we clarified this provision. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u77	Thank you. Senator Benjamin Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u78	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a few questions for the Minister. The first question concerns medical technicians. Why didn't you give a higher salary to a group of professional electrocardiogram technicians who also work in hospitals? These people are as likely to get sick as doctors. If medical rescue workers are just as overworked in recent months, they should also receive adequate remuneration for their work. The next question concerns entrepreneurs. Why was this provision for entrepreneurs introduced here, a provision prohibiting the trader from violating restrictions on business activities? Well, due to the occurrence of an epidemiological or epidemic threat, the possibility of public aid may be lost. At the moment, entrepreneurs are those people who need help. A businessman like that probably just needs to be reprimanded, possibly. I would like to stress: possible punishment. You don't have to take away the help he really deserves. My last question concerns preventive vaccination. Can the provision in place relating to the obligation to apply specific preventive measures and procedures imply the need for preventive vaccination? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u79	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u80	Mr. Senator, I'm going to address the issue of medical technicians that we treat as well as representatives of many, many other medical professions. The law does not really specify a specific group that may or may not be subject to it. If a medical technician is assigned to fight COVID, he will, of course, benefit from these privileges under the Act. If we are talking about laboratory diagnostics or medical secretaries, then these people can also be posted. If we're talking about the staff of those individuals who are paid according to the health minister's instructions, it's the same there. If healthcare professionals are directed to covid benefits, they will be able to receive an increased remuneration. As for the second question, here too, the answer was already given at the Senate committee meeting. Although we are aware that the sanctioning of this provision is probably difficult to understand perhaps for some entrepreneurs, I think we should also look at what the designer's intentions were. And at least on the government side, I'll try to explain how we understand it. We understand this in such a way that huge public aid, in particular in the form of shields, has been or may still be addressed to many entrepreneurs. But we would very much not want this aid to be addressed to those entrepreneurs who openly, unambiguously violate certain orders, prohibitions or sharpenings. In the media, for at least a few months, we have been dealing with the presentation of examples of apparent circumvention, e.g. prohibit the organisation of discos, the operation of certain facilities outside the hours in which they could function, etc., etc. It seems to me that public money from the shield should not go to such entities and I also think that both Members and Senators should agree with this interpretation. As far as vaccination is concerned and the discussion brought about by changes in the law on infectious diseases is concerned, That's what the President said, even I stressed. In our intention, this provision extending in fact the possibilities of certain preventive measures beyond those in line with the current wording of the provision, i.e. beyond those who are sick or suspected of having an infectious disease, did not concern, at least in my intention and understanding of that provision, vaccination. It concerned any catalogue of preventive measures that may be imposed by a certain order to the general public or on certain local populations or professional populations, e.g. actions related to disinfection or compliance with a certain sanitary regime. And there was talk of these preventive measures, as I understand them. As far as vaccination is concerned, in order for any vaccination, in particular covid vaccination, to be included in the mandatory vaccination list today, we do not need any statutory changes. Today, compulsory vaccinations that are introduced are not subject to the legislation on infectious diseases, because if they were, they could only be directed to people who are ill or suspected of having an infectious disease, and as we well know, the catalogue of compulsory vaccinations goes far beyond such groups. In order to introduce a potentially COVID vaccine into the Polish legal order today, it is necessary to amend the regulation of the Minister of Health and to introduce such a vaccine, not even a vaccine, but a disease group on the list, which is further confirmed in detail in the announcement of the Chief Health Inspector. So that there is no need for a statutory delegation here, so I think this interpretation of the fact that it is a preparation, say, pre-field to introduce a forced vaccine on COVID, is an interpretation too far gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u81	Thank you. Senator Richard Majer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u82	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have two questions. The first concerns the strengthening of the role of the voivode in the medical rescue system and in the health system. The question is: how much will this role be strengthened? As a result of the reform 21 years ago, the health care system was heavily damaged. We have hospitals in one area that have different founding bodies. Often these bodies are not able to communicate with each other, which results in SORs, in spite of what they should do, i.e. to save lives, becoming a place where patients with COVID are left behind because they have no place to pass on these patients. Therefore, will this regulation strengthen the role of the voivode in the system so that it can issue an order to the hospital director to create an additional covid branch or covid places in the hospital? That's the first question. If so, it will be very important information. Because then this regulation will help that the system will be improved and there will be no need... We can see at the moment in some pictures that somewhere in the worlds there are beds created for people with COVID, that the SOR takes care of a patient who has COVID for 7 days because there is nowhere to pass it on. This is the first question, about the role of the voivode, and really about restoring the role of the voivode, which was lost 21 years ago as a result of reforms of government and local government administration. The second question, Minister, is to increase the number of doctors in the system. We have a solution that makes it easier for foreigners to enter the system. I have a question as to whether there was any consideration at any stage of the work on the law of change in the Medical Final Exam. We have at the moment... the Health Minister's regulation assumes that the LEK, the Medical Final Exam, is currently being handed out by a person who had 56% The correct answers. If we were to reduce the value of this factor in time for pandemics, e.g. up to 51%, we would get about every six months a few hundred doctors who would power the system. Of course, I'm just talking about an ad hoc solution right now, for a pandemic, so as not to lower the level of quality of health protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u83	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u84	Mr Senator, as to the first question, of course, the provisions of the law that we are working on offer greater opportunities for both the Minister of Health and the voivodships, in particular as regards the settlement of certain disputes concerning admission to the hospital. We're seeing media images today showing ambulances that can't get a patient to a hospital. We discussed this at both today's committee meeting and in the roundabouts. I've spoken to Senator Necessary about the causes of this condition. Because if today, Hospital X, I am not going to name names, is unable to accept a patient, and in official statistics declares more than that, it is likely to pay for it, which we are now verifying in the framework of the National Health Fund's control of 36 places, hospital beds, we agree that understanding either the role of this entity, or the reporting system, or the presentation of this... It's inconsistent with what we're doing, and that makes it harder for us to make decisions. Because if we see in the system today, we have 30, 40, 50%. the buffer of beds, it is another way we decide to turn further hospitals into covido units, without losing the possibility of delivering standard benefits. On the other hand, we hear dramatic calls for an expansion of the bed base. The function of coordinators is to help to a certain extent in a quick way, you can say, express... Decisions issued shall be subject to immediate execution. The aim here is to ensure coordination between individuals, but also coordination... We often see problems at the level of voivodships or in relation to difficult cases, where e.g. air transport to specific units. And all this is really going to help, improve the work and make the system of going to hospitals more effective. As for the second question, I have far greater doubts here. I would like to say today that I am negatively assessing the idea of lowering certain exam requirements. I think that these requirements function in a certain standard, developed together with experts, together with clinicians, together with academic teachers. And I don't think I'd be tempted to lose weight on these requirements for a pandemic. I'm sure there'd be a question mark right away. What would happen next? Would these doctors keep the rights acquired after the exam, or would they re-take it? I think finding such ways could be dangerous, too, because of such questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u85	Thank you, Minister. Senator Ewa Majewska. [[Voice from the room: Matecka.]] Matecka. I'm sorry. Senator Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u86	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. I'd like to get back to the pay stuff. Well, we already know that this law introduces a lot of divisions and exclusions. We find it hard to imagine that two nurses in a drive-thru tent or two lab workers with a lot of commitment, with the same commitment, along with their very difficult responsibilities, often at risk of getting sick, will have a small variety of salaries. This is a very bad, bad, terrible situation. That's what we've been talking about. I just wanted to point it out again. You will allow the Minister to return to the article. 7, and in particular to point 2, which refers to the right up to 100% remuneration in the case of a municipal guard who is on sick leave. My question is: does the duration of the epidemic determine the right to a 100 percent salary for this worker on sick leave? If this worker gets sick and is granted a medical discharge and the epidemic ceases, will he retain the right to a 100 percent wage? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u87	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u88	Mrs. Senator, may I begin with the second question, in a clear way, all the solutions that introduce the covid, anti-crisis laws are defined for the duration of the epidemic or the period of epidemic danger. Therefore, these solutions, these privileges, in this case concerning the municipal guards, but not only those, because all the privileges that apply to all the employees mentioned in these laws, expire after the withdrawal of that state. As for the salary suggestions, I don't really understand the intention of the question here. If there are two nurses there, one is posted by the voivode and the other is provided to covid patients e.g. in their workplace, they both get this supplement, one according to the law, the other, as I said, according to the instructions of the Minister of Health, which have been implemented for a long time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u89	Thank you. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u90	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I briefly, because in the statements of my previous speakers, some of these questions have already been raised regarding salaries. Here you have already said that it will be for doctors or medical staff seconded to work with patients from COVID by the voivode. The question is, who do you think? In addition to the law, on 26 October he deals with patients with COVID, from the first contact with medical services, for the moment of diagnosis... [[The voice from the room: How is he supposed to know...]] I'm sorry, am I interrupting? For a moment of diagnosis until we find a hospitalized bed for a patient like this? You know very well, sir, because Senator Majer said it was a lot of times now. It's been a few weeks, and I don't know how long. We're taking care of our patients at the emergency rooms in the emergency rooms. I think it's very bad when it comes to fighting the epidemic, dividing the medical community into those who go hand-in-hand with the voivodeship... I don't know what the rules are, but I do know that you've been asking the medical authorities to point out to you those who want to fight the pandemic in such divisions. I don't know how you're gonna do it. It's still incomprehensible to me. In any case, sharing this environment is very bad at a time of pandemic. Answer me: who do you think is handling COVID patients now?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u91	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u92	The senator is asking such a very complex question, and I'll try to systematize it somehow, because I think I understand the intention. Of course, patients with COVID can take care of any system doctor It may be a POZ doctor who has it financed by separate procedures, but it may be an outpatient specialist doctor to whom such a patient from COVID will go, it may be a hospital to which such a patient will go, it may be a night's medical assistance. But just because a patient infected with COVID will go to a doctor at any of these sites, it does not mean that this subject will take care of this patient in a systematic manner, in a way that is defined in this autumn strategy, for example. Well, the assumption, in particular, in the case of hospitals at the first level, that we also discussed this at the committee meeting today, was that of course, they could have a patient with a broken leg, who has a COVID, who might have a cardiac patient, but that doesn't mean that this subject is going to treat COVID, he's going to take care of this patient. In principle, this entity is intended to take care of it to a minimum extent, such as to ensure that the patient can be transported to the hospital that deals with it, or to an infectious hospital, if we are talking about pure, in quotes, the fight against COVID, or to a multi-specialist hospital, where they will be able to deal with it within this third level hospital. I know that the senator is talking about certain exceptions to this rule, those exceptions that may be the result of what we hear, that is, the absence of places in hospitals of the second level, the third level, and the necessity of holding, in quotes, a patient in these isolation places for some time. Well, about that, I've already answered. In the case of hospitals, the first level is that if the decision of the voivode, most commonly agreed with these entities, is a delegated, separate branch for the treatment of covid patients e.g. this is an example that I have discussed today, a real example from one of the hospitals in Warsaw, is obviously the staff of this department, people directed to the treatment of these patients will be able to receive, as ordered by the Minister of Health, an increased salary. We don't really share medical personnel, we don't separate... The only division is based on whether a particular part of the staff is fighting against COVID directly, whether they are actually involved in the treatment of patients with COVID, or whether they are taking time in a systematic manner. Now a covid patient can go to any facility, but I don't think it's clear that each of the employees is involved in the fight against COVID in a comparable way. Although my response to this and perhaps to the further increase of infections, although I hope that this will not be the case, as well as the possible further transformation of certain branches, perhaps more massive orders from the voivodeships to create isolation sites in hospitals or covid places in hospitals of the first level, is that having such a flexible tool, which is the order of the Minister of Health addressed to the President of the National Health Fund... I'm not ruling out that we're going to expand these commands.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u93	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Tyszkiewicz. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Is the senator remote? [[Do we hear each other?]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome. [[Do we hear each other?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u94	We hear each other. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a few questions, and I'll make them in the form of a statement, but maybe at least some of them you can answer me. As we hear that more hospitals are being opened, such as at the National Stadium, that there are more covid beds... I think it's pretty easy to increase the number of beds. I'm very interested in staff, so that's the question. How many doctors and nurses per 1,000 inhabitants in Poland, and how do these indicators apply to the other countries of the European Union, to the EU average? Second question. What is the occupational activity rate of doctors and nurses in January of October 2020? Another question. How many doctors with a specialty in infectious diseases and nurses with a specialty in infectious diseases per thousand inhabitants are in Poland? What is the monthly participation rate of doctors with specializations in infectious diseases and nurses with specializations in infectious diseases in January and October 2020 as regards the other countries of the European Union? And one last question. What is the average age of a nurse and doctor in Poland in 2020? This is in relation to the situation in the other countries of the European Union. If you can answer, at least in part, I will be grateful, and if not, I ask you to answer in writing, because this involves a situation in a country that is increasingly difficult. I have another question in relation to Senator Godyla's statement, i.e. related to the procession of the law. These are cases of infringement by the trader of restrictions, orders and prohibitions on the conduct of business established in connection with the occurrence of an epidemic or epidemic. While this mechanism itself appears reasonable and reasonable in terms of combating the epidemic and maintaining epidemiological discipline and related procedures, the arbitrary decision of the authority competent to control compliance with restrictions, orders and prohibitions in the absence of any appeal procedure may be considered to be controversial. And my question is, have you considered creating an appeal mechanism? Because it is man who makes the decision against man, the situation is very difficult. The point is whether the trader will have the opportunity to appeal and if not, whether you have considered such an option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u95	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u96	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I don't think today is the time to present statistics on the age of a doctor and nurse. I think these discussions in the Senate have already been held many times. I myself often, for example. I answered these questions in detail, and I showed some government action. Well, I think we all know the challenges of securing medical personnel. We all know what kind of staff situation we're in. But we must all also make it clear that this is the consequence of decisions made not a year, not two years, probably not even five, not eight years ago, but a decision... and, unfortunately, no decision to support this sector in the last several years, 20 or 25 years. I think we can boast of some actions to change this picture. These activities are primarily a continuous increase in admission limits for both medical and nursing studies for several years. This is also a significant increase in the number of medical universities that train doctors and nurses. These are some soft actions related to changes in education processes, some actions related to the implementation of medical simulation methods, making medical training courses more attractive in order to encourage larger groups of young people to study in these areas. But I think today the subject of the covid bill... that the answer to these questions is not critically important from the point of view of the proposed changes to the rules. 'Cause I think we're all aware that this staff theme is the number one priority of the Ministry of Health, but it's taken in maybe extracovid mode. If this is what the senator expects, we will, of course, reply in writing. As for sanctions... As I said before, I, of course, understand these sanctions as a government representative, but I cannot clearly explain the applicant's intentions for certain nuances, such as appeals or a potential appeal path. So, unfortunately, I cannot answer the question of Members' intentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u97	There you go, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz again. [[I'd like to, Minister... do you hear me? We hear each other.]] Yes, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u98	Minister, it wasn't my intention to press charges. I mean, the situation is very difficult. And it was... [[Closer to the microphone, Mr. Senator.]] ...that's... [[Closer to the microphone, because you can't hear.]] Do you hear me? [[Yes.]] Dear Minister, in my questions there was no charge made either by the Minister or by the Government. It was about explaining the difficult situation in the country at the moment, and whether Poles could actually count on the right number of doctors. There was no malice here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u99	Thank you very much. It wasn't a question, so... Senator Eva Gawada. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u100	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to ask you another question about the issue of salaries. Namely, does the bill include medical rescue, specifically covid transports? Because, as we know, these doctors are constantly in contact with patients with COVID. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u101	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u102	Thank you. That's a very accurate question. Although the law does not regulate this, unless we are talking about these delegated persons, but I can already make a clear declaration today: just after the law enters into force, we will refer to the President of the National Health Fund an order to cover this increase to 200%. This will apply to transport teams, but not only, because also e.g. Hospital emergency personnel, which means we will fully secure the medical emergency area.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u103	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about these regulations and questions about vaccines. That's what I've been raising, what I've been asking the Senator of the Health Committee. Well, since it arouses emotions and discussions, I have a question: is this recipe needed at all? And if so, why, if he's so imprecise. In case there is no doubt, perhaps it is better to remove this provision from this amendment? I am prepared to make such a legislative proposal in writing. I am curious to hear from the Minister in this regard. The second question concerns masks. Well, so far the interpretation has been that the rules that apply are sufficient. As we know, many people in Poland have been sanctioned by a mandate for failing to comply with this regulation. We also know that the courts have ruled in this case. Well, we remember the famous ruling about the event at the store. In Suwałki, perhaps. And I have a question: if there is also no legal doubt as to the binding of this record, how should we read the record which is now in this law? Is it a confession that, after all, those who raised the question that there was no statutory basis for wearing masks were right? I'm talking about this not because I'm opposed to wearing masks, I'm asking you absolutely not to accuse me of that. I just want us to be a law that is clear and clear to citizens so that there is no doubt. So were those who claimed that there were no grounds for doing so, and the introduction of this record at the moment is like putting a dot over the "and," confirming that these doubts were justified, or is it unnecessary, such a blank record? Are you sure it's needed in the facials bill? I have two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u105	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u106	Mr. Senator, maybe I'll start with the masks. As a government side, we believe that these regulations that have emerged in the legal field have been sufficient regulations. We've been standing in this position from the very beginning. However, seeing certain inconsistencies in court case law, some judgments, which, as it were, gave room for interpretation, we decided to join the club of the left. It is in this law to regulate and unambiguously define, to give statutory delegations, to save the order to wear masks in certain situations. As I remember correctly, the Act gives a delegation to the Minister of Health to issue a regulation in which he can determine this, for example. Territorially, in which areas these masks should be worn. So let me stress once again: we are in the position that the previous records were sufficient, but for the sake of peace, for a uniform interpretation these entries are now included in the Act. As for vaccines and amending the legislation on infectious diseases, as I say, the catalogue of certain orders, prohibitions, preventive measures... Well, I'm looking for good examples. I thought the ones I gave were pretty good. But I also imagine, as if for a moment, going away from what we have in terms of masks, that the mask is a preventive action. She's absolutely such a means. If we had previously followed perhaps the law on infectious diseases alone, then this mask or any other preventive measure that we can imagine could be applied to people who are sick or potentially infected, and we know that many preventive measures must be taken against healthy or potentially healthy people. For this reason, in my view, this record is valuable. Perhaps it refers to a short directory or an undefined catalogue of preventive actions that could be undertaken, but I also imagine that it would be better to ensure this in the bill than to seek the possibility of speeding up the bill if such preventive actions would appear to the experts or to us legitimate.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u107	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, can I ask you another question? Will you allow the marshal?]] Yes, you can. [[Thank you.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u108	Minister, but so to speak, I have already learned with some legislative experience, so that there will be no misconceptions later, etc. But wouldn't it be better if... Because if the Minister couldn't make it clear whether it was such a general statement that he might later give rise to interpretational discussions, which are still unnecessary... And so there are quite a number of problems in Poland at the moment, so... I mean, connected to the pandemic. That's what I'm talking about right now, not other things. I would simply suggest that the government should, however, support the proposal to delete the amendment, i.e. the article. 46 or amendments to Article 46 46 of this Law of 2008, and then there would be no such understatements. Because, in the light of what the Minister has said, in the light of the other provisions in force, these objectives can be achieved, so why multiply the legal existence in this regard. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u109	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u110	Mr. Senator, I wouldn't want to take certain powers away from the senators here in an obvious way. I think such a consensus could be this. If there is really some question of interpretation related to this provision... On the one hand, I do not want us to give up on it, because it can be a potential tool for intervention in the case of patients who are not infected, and on the other hand, if you would consider, for example. for appropriate adaptation of this provision by delegation, e.g. The health minister, to implement or define these preventive measures, I think we could meet this challenge.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u111	Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u112	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask what you asked Senator Jackowski. I would also stress that vaccinations are very emotional. Even my senator's office has had a lot of questions about this. Yeah, but there's also some unawareness. You said earlier that there were a number of mandatory vaccinations in our country, but we know that these vaccinations are not compulsory. I just checked on the National Institute of Public Health website. PZH. Here is an explanation as to whether vaccination is mandatory as compulsory vaccination. Well, it's not. And I would very much ask the Minister to refer to whether vaccination is mandatory. Same as forced vaccination.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u113	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u114	That's actually a difficult question, Senator. I have to think about it myself. I think I'm going to try to answer that question in writing because... I mean, I really feel the intention, and I'm pretty much convinced that it's not the same vaccination catalogue, although I wouldn't want to mislead the speaker, so please forgive me. I'll try to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u115	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The question was actually encouraged by the voice of Senator Majer regarding those doctors who do not give a medical final exam. There is indeed a group of doctors. She's probably counting up to a few hundred people. And would the Minister consider such a way out of the situation... Those doctors. They actually worked, worked as intern doctors. They can't take a full-time job because they haven't passed the medical final exam, but they've already worked in hospitals under the supervision of other doctors. And should they not be allowed to do so now? I mean, in colloquially speaking, direct them twice for an internship? Of course, it's not what you call it, but on the same terms of responsibility, etc. They could assist doctors normally working, doctors with the right to pursue their profession. Just like they've done so far. After graduating, they went to an internship, during which time they passed or did not have a medical final exam, but they were able to work and perform many medical activities as interns. And it is undoubtedly a group that we should not ignore now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u117	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u118	Mr. Senator, this may be a very good postulate, which has not yet appeared in the work of the Seym or in the Senate. I now read the sound of the article literally. 15, that's the change in lithium. And who says that in the event of an epidemic or epidemic emergency being declared they can be guided... and here we have students, PhD students, graduates who have completed their education in the last five years, and medical professionals. Well, I'd probably have to support myself with the Ministry of Health's lawyers, so I could tell you whether it's in this category, or if it's people with medical education who have completed their education in the last five years, or if they're in the medical profession, this category of employees doesn't fit in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u119	Thank you very much. Please ask the question of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u120	I have two questions. First. I understand that the Minister doesn't see the difference between limiting certain freedoms and civil liberties in terms of the inconvenience of wearing masks, and not just wearing masks, but also maintaining distance, banning movement... Doesn't the Minister see the need to treat these two warrants, that is, a warrant and a ban, or an order not to leave, let's assume, a place of residence, as well as a warrant to wear a mask? The problem, let me remind you, was that the government put this order in the regulation. Our part of the lawyers and the opposition thought that orders and prohibitions on civil liberties should be in the law, so is the constitution. Therefore, the question is whether these 2 limitations, the limitation of distance, 1,5 and 2 m, this is a limitation, someone wants, let's assume, be closer, but can't, and especially the limitation of movement, should not be in the bill. In a situation where you withdraw from the regulation and introduce a mask order into the bill. Because the difference between what you've done before and what you're going to do today, that's what you're going to do, transfer the mask order from the regulation to the bill. And that's the first question. Aren't you supposed to put in that sort of thing? also to the bill, so that there simply are no similar situations when you have to introduce, let's assume, lockdown. The legal situation and the annulment of it by the court. The second question concerns the admission of doctors from outside the European Union to practice in Poland. The instincts are clear. Because I heard that the committee disagreed and thinks that there should still be some kind of exam, not a statement, I want to ask the question: how many admissions per year are there on the basis of an examination of such doctors from outside the European Union? And how much do you estimate to increase the number of admissions of doctors from outside the European Union if you decide to make a statement about Polish language? Because, of course, the Polish exam somehow limits the ability of this medical staff, as well as the nursing staff at the moment, in an epidemic situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u121	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u122	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Marshal, these are difficult questions for a representative of the Ministry of Health. It seems to me that a more constitutionalist or at least a staff of lawyers could or should have taken care of it. On our part, on the part of the government, the Government's Legislative Centre has decided that these restrictions introduced by the Council of Ministers regulations are sufficient grounds for imposing such orders, prohibitions or, broadly speaking, prevention measures, no, in particular in accordance with the provisions relating to the spread of infectious diseases. The fact that we're introducing masks into the bill... Well, I think the target here is one fundamental one. This is about the discussion of masks in public space for months. But also, as I say, certain inconsistent judgments of the courts show... whether, you might say, they order certain actions which have these further interpretation doubts to rule out.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u123	Minister, I'm not against these warrants. I'm not. I'm a supporter. I would just like to point out that they should be introduced from the outset in accordance with legal order. So don't argue with me as if I were against these orders. I am not against them, I believe that these orders are needed, but they should be introduced by law from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u124	I, Mr. Marshal, do not argue about the substance itself, because here, I think, we have been clear from the very beginning and I have not even tried to undermine the opinion of the Marshal. All I can argue with is... Let me repeat: in our view, these prohibitions have been implemented in the right legislative path. Well, it's probably hard to argue here, but we just have two different opinions. Mr. Marshal, I'm so sorry if I could ask you to repeat the second question again... Because the other hand I was looking for answers to that question about forced vaccinations, I even found it, but at the same time I lost...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u125	Okay, I'll say it again, I'll say it again. The Commission disagreed with your proposal, with the government's proposal to allow doctors from outside the European Union to... Therefore, I ask: if this is voted out... How many doctors from outside the European Union were admitted to the exam last year, and how many doctors from outside the European Union, doctors and nurses will arrive after changing this provision?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u126	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u127	Mr. Marshal, that, of course, is a very detailed question. Nevertheless... [[I'd like a general answer.]] By generalizing... [[Yes.]] The Senate Committee, I understand, has agreed to allow these doctors such a quick, simple path to work in Poland. This path in Poland, of course, existed, but it was a little more complicated. Here, as I understand it, the committee's doubts focused only on one of these, you can say, procedures within the mentioned rapid path, i.e. actually on the exam or declaration... I can't answer the heat right now. Maybe in a moment I'll get data on how many of these people have been admitted in the previous year. If I get the data, I'll get back to that. Nevertheless, what I would really like to emphasise... I feel like the whole committee Sejm and sejm, and senacka On the very introduction of a simplified procedure, she agreed. We differ in this one nuance, this one criterion related to the fast path. If I get an answer to your question in a moment, I'll give it to the marshal. And if I may now, Mrs. Marshal, then... I have an answer to a question about these forced vaccinations... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go.]] ...I could go back to that right away. These mandatory vaccination provisions have been in our legal order for actually a long time. I will quote them directly: "In the case of a person who is not subject to vaccination, sanitary and epidemiology tests, sanitary procedures, quarantine or isolation of compulsory hospitalisation, who is suspected or diagnosed with a particularly dangerous and highly contagious disease, which poses a direct risk to health or life, a means of direct coercion consisting in the holding, immobilisation or forced administration of medicines may be used. Under this provision, you could actually administer a medicine In this case, the vaccine In a forced form, but it seems obvious to me that we do not have such intentions at all. This provision applies to those situations where we are talking about people already infected, people hospitalized, people who do not undergo certain procedures and pose a threat. Of course, there are plenty of records in this law about who decides to administer the measure, what is the mode, what should be noted before serving, etc. However, in order to cut this discussion short, let me say this: we do not intend to apply such solutions today. This does not apply to the general public, according to the bill under procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u128	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u129	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I'm going to dig up the subject of these, let's call it conventionally, vaccines. Namely I checked it with the legislator and I know that in the current legislation it is all written down. Here it was only legislatively broken into 2 subpoints. So I ask this question: if all this is written in the 2008 Act, then why break it into 2 points? I will make the right amendment because I believe that this is an unnecessary multiplication of legislative entities. I don't know why we're changing order and something that has 3 rows, we're breaking into 2 points after 1.5 rows. So I will make such an amendment, because I really do not see the point of repeating in this article the same record, only broken into 2 points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u130	Thank you very much. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u131	Very briefly. Mr. Senator, I can't agree with the fact that this is already the case, because the record, which is now in the act on the control of infectious diseases, refers to the obligation to undergo tests, specific preventive measures and treatments by people who are sick and suspected of being ill. There are two categories of people out there. In turn, this provision, which is inserted in the article. 46b, is a general statement that says that this obligation can be applied to... He doesn't narrow it down to sick people and suspects. Well, here are 2 or 3 categories of people for whom these measures can be applied.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u132	Thank you very much. [[I have another question.]] Ask around.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u133	Well, Minister, now you've planted a lot of doubt. If you said it was a blank recipe. It is not known who it is or what the procedures are to be. I'm the one who's gonna file this motion to delete it. I hope that the House will vote on the deletion of these provisions, because I believe that this is creating a very dangerous legal precedent. We're doing this with a hypothetical situation that might happen, but it's so ambiguous that then there'll be doubts again. It was the same with these masks. The government claimed that there was a legal basis and the courts claimed otherwise. I believe that, in order to ensure the legislative process, we should avoid such wording. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u134	Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u135	Mr. Senator, I've been trying to resolve any doubts here for the past two hours and not plant new ones, but maybe something didn't work out for me. Well, I tried to explain our intentions, but of course that's the senator's right. If the High House agrees with this amendment, we will have to look for other options, other intervention tools, perhaps no longer under this provision of the law on the control of infectious diseases.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u136	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u137	Thank you very much, Marshal. I'll speak a little differently than Senator Jackowski. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that this response is in line with the opinion of the National Institute of Public Health that compulsory vaccination is not compulsory vaccination. All vaccinations that are on the mandatory vaccination list are simply free of charge, but they are not compulsory vaccinations. And in the context of those questions that you asked earlier, Marshal Borusewicz, and in the context of the fact that we have a pandemic of coronavirus, perhaps indeed I'm gonna come out here and meet you. It is good that there will be such a provision in the bill. Then there will be no doubt whether such vaccination should be mandatory or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u138	Thank you. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u139	I think, perhaps not optimisticly, that until we place the vaccine on the market and give it to Polish patients we probably have a few months. So I think if there is really a need to regulate this at the level of the law, we will examine it. Today it seems to us that these provisions, especially on compulsory insurance, thanks to this rank of act, which is the Minister of Health's regulation, make this possible. But it seems like we have a while or a long time. Eventually, we'll meet in the process of such a project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski... [[One more thing.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u141	Since I have heard an interpretation that completely distorts my question, I would like to tell the Minister that I am not against the inclusion of masks in the bill. Well, I think we need to expand this catalog by two more states. Oh, yeah, I was talking about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u142	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u143	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, is there a definition of preventive measures and treatments in the Act? Because it's really all about discussion and doubt. If there's a definition, then please introduce it, and if there isn't, it's a question of what happens then. Will it not only be vaccinations, but some other preventive measures or treatments that we are not even aware of? That's the first thing... Because they can be applied, as you said, to everyone, not just to people who are sick or suspected of getting sick. The second question is perhaps not so much deeper as wider. Well, in this law we introduce certain measures related to the fight against the coronavirus, I would say, directly, i.e. the care of the sick, the isolation attempt... not only the trial, but the isolation of the sick, but also the isolation of the sick. And that's what's important. With the prevention or transmission of the virus. But let's put on a pessimistic scenario for a second, just that we're not gonna make it. Not only to us, but probably to the rest of the countries, because it's going to be a chain. And it's not gonna be a fast vaccine, it's not gonna be a fast effective cure, so we're gonna have to sort of get used to living with the coronavirus, maybe a few more seasons in these masks. Do you foresee such a scenario? Is the government preparing, I would say more generally Maybe that's the question. Not to you, or to the Council of Ministers at all, as such for life with a coronavirus? What we will need to change in our behaviour, not only our behaviour as citizens, but also in some departments of the national economy, such as gastronomy, tourism, etc.? Do you consider that we assume that the pandemic will not end within a year, there will be no vaccine within six months or a year? And then what? Is such a scenario considered, more far-reaching and pessimistic?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u144	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u145	I think, Mr. Senator, it's probably a subject for a very separate discussion, because it's really about such a complete presentation of a strategy in case of this most black scenario. From today's, say, strategies developed with epidemiologists or experts or viral... Well, the virus has some specific functioning. We know that even if we have to live with him longer Well, here the position of the virusologists is pretty clear. It is likely that he will become more contagious, it will become easier and easier to spread, but for this he will reap less and less negative harvest, less and less deadly. I think... Of course, such strategies would have to require a long-term approach for 5, 10 years. With many viruses we learn to live and they, I say, manage. I think that today the biggest challenge of the Coronavirus pandemic is the challenge of the outbreak of this virus, because it spreads at a rate that we don't seem to know, because the other viruses that we've been dealing with haven't spread so much. I'm talking about scale, mass. If the senator asks me whether such a long-term strategy is being developed today, for two or three years, five years ahead, then I say no. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanka: Thank you...]] [[Excuse me, what about the definition of concepts in the bill?]] I'm sorry. I checked it out fast, the lawyers gave me a hint. There is no definition of other preventive measures or treatments in the law on infectious diseases. This is today's directory opened in the act.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u146	Thank you very much. Senator Joanna Sekuła is still on the list of questions, but before I give the senator the floor, I'm going to ask if there are any other people who would like to join the list of questions. There isn't. I'm filing a motion to close the list of questions. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted this proposal. Senator Joanna Sekuła.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u147	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Please tell me whether you, as the Ministry of Health, have asked the President of the Council of Ministers to issue an order to strengthen the capacity of the services to carry out an extended record of intervention in infectious matters. This order makes it clear that police intervention is possible to assist the police. Is it at the request of the Ministry of Health that the order of the President of the Council of Ministers has been incorporated into the legal market since 28 October? Is this a coincidence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u148	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u149	Senator, I can't really answer that question. Many decisions, including legislative ones, are set at meetings of the Government Emergency Management Team, which take place practically daily. Most of these decisions are discussed inter-ministerially. Whether the initiator in this case was the Minister of Health or the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, I cannot answer right now. I can confirm that in writing in the near future. [[I'm asking you to answer in writing.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u150	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Joanna Sekuła. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u151	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, senators! It's been hours since there's been a debate on what the government is going to do and what it didn't do in the fight against the pandemic. Thank you very much, Minister. Indeed, the Senate committee meeting showed me what parliamentary work should be like in the Senate, working in the working group of the Senate Health Committee today. Of course, this was the first meeting where we could communicate and exchange our views, although we differed in opinions. It is known that time is not easy. I'm talking to you as a doctor, as a young parliamentarians. We work with patients with COVID virus disease every day. And it's not like you're saying that the patient who's coming to the emergency room... that someone's gonna keep him there because there's no room in the hospital. That someone is a doctor. And the patient has been in and out of the E.R. since he arrived. Someone's researching him, someone's taking care of him, someone's caring him, someone's treating him. And this isn't some kind of holding-up. Hence my question, which I asked you twice today: who is involved in the treatment, diagnosis and treatment of patients with COVID? I will answer this: all the doctors who work in health, public and private care, all of them. Today, the virus is everywhere. We're not able to conduct a thorough epidemiology investigation and find out where someone brought the virus, for example. to the hospital, whether he's been infected in the family or since he was a child, because you know very well that at the moment, schools are the breeding ground for this epidemic. Unfortunately, I have to say this: as a physician, I expected that during the summer we would be prepared together, over political divisions for this fight. And I'm not gonna say this here because those words have already been said that we've been doing elections, political games and again, as always, as for many years, health protection has been at the end. You can see the deficits, you can see the generation gap, you can see our doctors at retirement age, you know, senior age, who are in the system. They cater to medical needs in about 30%. I can't imagine the doctors who are going to fight those troops where he's gonna delegate, you don't know, like a voivode. We doctors want to treat, yes, we want to treat, but we want to have a clear strategy on how to prepare for it, how to do it, and we want to know who will do it. You allow young doctors, often terrified, money-stricken, into the system. I can't imagine that specialists who provide services in AOS, hospital departments or even private health care, because you know exactly what this system looks like, you know that family doctors invite our young residents to work this afternoon to patch holes... They do something in these clinics, they take someone. I understand, of course, all hands on deck, but we, by giving up these jobs, will not treat patients with other diseases, and also, as happens in practice, with other diseases and with COVID. I have carefully examined this bill and I do not know what it will look like in the near future. I must tell you that from the very beginning, from 4 February, when our meeting of the Committee on Health took place, when Madam President and the members of this committee, we all called on you to take immediate steps, to start the fight against the epidemic... And I can't imagine that politicians, ministers at the Ministry of Health, couldn't predict that there would be a pandemic in the fall. Because it's now, ladies and gentlemen, we have a problem. Back then, in March, there was the first blow, we didn't have personal protective equipment, we didn't have the means. Only after a while They appeared, and it is actually a society, municipalities, local governments, we ourselves supported ourselves to provide ourselves with any means of protection so as not to infect ourselves, because we knew virtually nothing about this epidemic. But it's not just our government, it's not just other governments, let's say, with some latency they've come to the subject, because everyone thought that the SARS-CoV-2 virus would be somewhere far away, in Wuhan, it wouldn't move to Europe, and from the experience of Italian doctors, we didn't learn from the experience in Lombardy either. Everyone thought we weren't involved. He's smart. A Pole after damage. Then the doctors received thanks when the other governments... I would like this proverb to be a Polish, Hungarian, two nephews... Viktor Orbán gave his doctors a very good motivation to work and stay in the country, to treat patients, because the Hungarian Parliament decided on 7 October to motivate all medical workers to work with patients from COVID and all medical professionals received increases. And, of course, we're gonna fight the medics. We got an article as a gift. 37a of the Penal Code, according to which we will be responsible for unintentionally causing errors, and the penalty is imprisonment. It's our motivation, it's to heat us up to fight the epidemic. Everyone here, we've been through this epidemic for the first time, and we're all learning it. And we, doctors, and nurses, and paramedics, analysts, all who work, want to fight this epidemic, but we need to have clearly defined goals, clearly indicated what we should do, while as this epidemic develops, there is a complete change in the rules of operation of this system. We've already learned how to work with single-name hospitals that had free seats during the summer, with new types of hospitals being created that are going to treat COVID, we don't know what the rules are, and we're building field hospitals. I'm not discussing this because maybe we can use it in this pandemic, but I don't know who's gonna work there, and that bill doesn't give me the answer. You know very well that there have been ongoing talks with the medical authorities who want to help in this situation, but there are certain letters of law that tell us what kind of data we have in the medical records, and we do not have those data that may have been available to the voivodeship. Ladies and gentlemen, there's been a lot of talk about vaccines. I use academic medicine in my everyday life. It's known that there are anti-vaccine movements. There are people... It is known that some non-medical knowledge, not knowledge based on facts, gets to the media. And we read... Well, anyone can write what they want. But what I'm trying to say is that vaccinations saved humanity, and in an epidemic age, the vaccine is whether or not it will be our great achievement. Whatever she's gonna be, she's gonna have to pass the tests, and she's got to be safe for those who get her. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, hygiene, vaccine, antibiotics are a great achievement of medicine and let us use knowledge based on expert knowledge, not knowledge of political narratives or people who do not know at all. And let's trust the doctors. Because during the pandemic period, there have been many arguments that undermine the confidence in doctors, and thus delay the diagnosis of many dangerous diseases, because if citizens don't trust us, they won't want to diagnose and treat themselves. As for the good Samaritan clause, the medical community was waiting for her. And we, as the Senate Health Committee, have been familiar with this legislative proposal, but here the roads of the medical government and the ministry have spread. And at the moment it was no longer possible to debate it. And it's not a consensus, it's just a promise to doctors, to doctors, that we'll be very decent, as it is in the Senate, to work on this topic in the near future. And if the Ministry of Health reaches consensus with the medical authority, then we promise that in extraordinary mode we will proceed quickly. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, time is up.]] Thank you very much. Thank you, and I wish you all health.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u152	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u153	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo, there's no explanation... I've read this bill, I've been looking at the justification, and there's no explanation... In fact, there is no explanation for most of the questions that have been on our minds since the beginning of this year, and many people have been worried. There is no explanation for why the government is presenting this bill to us now. The bill went to the Senate on Friday. Just now. Why not in April? Why not in May? Finally, why didn't she hit in June, July or August? There's no explanation for that. After all, it is certainly difficult to conclude that the explanation would be that in July and August there is a holiday. There is no explanation why this is happening on the threshold of November, and the pandemic is going crazy, at least with us, since February, and specific measures have been taken since March. There's no explanation why it's only on the threshold of November that there's a raid at the field hospitals. After all, they should have been designated long, several months ago, for many weeks they should have been organized, and not only in terms of the beds that I mentioned here before, but also in terms of equipment, people and handling all of this. Well, there's no explanation for why this is happening. There's no explanation for why we're still talking about vaccines. And it's not about the most important thing the whole world's waiting for. But it's about flu vaccines. Well, there's no explanation. In a month's time, the nation should be vaccinated, and for a few percent of people there is not yet this vaccine. Well, there's no explanation why the government, why the ruling party doesn't deal with this crisis, doesn't manage risks, doesn't protect people, entrepreneurs, employees, everyone, just takes care of itself. Well, there's no real explanation for that. Even in this bill, there's no explanation. Although, of course, the Minister tried Why it interferes with this law, with those provisions, with the independence of the local government. Well, there's no explanation why it also interferes with the independence of private entities. There's no excuse for that. There's no explanation why he's shutting down public procurement from this bill again. Well, there's no explanation. especially in the context of all the dubious, so to speak, so far I'm very gentle about it. The purchase value of which reaches tens of millions in one case is hundreds of millions. In other cases. There are completely unexplained stories, but public contracts are shut down again, which are like a police officer, a security guard, when it comes to spending public money. There's no explanation for that. And to be honest, there will be no explanation. There will be no explanation if the government and the parliamentary majority do not accept the draft law tabled today at the committee meeting, on which we will be discussing, in the next item, the suspension of the trade ban on Sunday. Well, there's no real explanation. Trade is not ideology, trade is not religion, trade can never be treated through dogma, and certainly not during the pandemic and economic and economic crisis. There will be no explanation if you do not support it here in the Senate, and there will be no explanation if you try to reject it in the Seym. Why? Yeah, well, let's cut to the chase. Firstly, because the proposed solutions will serve to increase the health protection of citizens, those citizens who are customers. Secondly, because they will serve to support entrepreneurs, and many of them may soon go bankrupt. Thirdly, because they will serve the employees of these entrepreneurs. Because if these companies go bankrupt, these people are going to land. And at the worst time you could imagine, in a time of recession. I'm on unemployment. And fourthly, because these solutions will serve the state, the budget that has a deficit We will also be discussing today the revision of the 2020 budget. In the amount of 109 billion, among others. because tax revenues, including VAT, have fallen dramatically. And where does it come from if not from consumption? Where does it come from, if not from internal demand? This bill in each of these ranges will serve this purpose. So there's no explanation if you don't support her. I urge you to support this bill, which we will discuss in a moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u154	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u155	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to speak in this debate as a person who has been involved in public health for many, many years. Public health is an area that takes care of the health of the whole society, the whole population and is aimed at preventing, extending life in health. I don't think he's focusing on restoring his health, which is when we've lost our health, we're sick, and then we're doing everything we can to make that health come back to us. Why am I talking about this? Because until recently we had many infectious diseases, epidemics, and because we were able to manage these epidemics, we were able to introduce various types of prevention programs, we raised hygiene, health education, and we also vaccinated people widely, we deprived ourselves of this problem. Of course, now there are other challenges, including those related to the environment, such as climate, so-called. civilizational diseases, so there is another area of public health that needs to be managed. Why am I talking about this? Because this epidemic is not being managed, it is a case work from the very beginning: something is happening, there is a reaction. There's no plan or strategy. I ignore the fact that the beginning was indeed dramatic, because an unpredictable new disease, a new phenomenon, but the fact that the period of these few months was not properly used, to prepare both legislation and various types of solutions, plan A and plan B, depending on what course this epidemic would have been, is completely incomprehensible to me. The fact that the Minister of Health said openly two weeks ago that no one saw this coming... What do you mean, no one predicted it, Minister? After all, experts, epidemiologists said that in the autumn there would be a peak of disease. So where's the problem? The problem is that when it comes to the whole strategy and the whole fight against the epidemic, politicians, not scientists, epidemiologists and not experts fight. This has been confirmed in those countries where the leader, the person managing the epidemic, was not a politician, it was a doctor, a scientist, a researcher who was able to predict, who created models of epidemics and gave various solutions, which the Ministry eventually accepted. And that's the first mistake, the biggest mistake and the charge I'm making to the government team. You can't talk about important things like fighting for people's lives and health just about politics, and that's what happened this year. ♪ Health ♪ ♪ Health ♪ - ♪ It has never been as politicised as it has been in recent months, all decisions have been subject to political decisions. This is the first case. Second thing. Error, omission and sin are a lack of built-up trust, at different levels, both government trust The public as well as the government of the medical staff. These elements have been neglected or abandoned. The conflicting decisions that were directed to society have also caused some kind of movement that disproves the belief that we have an epidemic. The fact that such movements have arisen is the fault of the fact that society has lost confidence in the government, to the Ministry of Health, because the decisions passed on were contradictory. And yet I would like to say that if we manage the crisis, if we manage the difficult situation, then all eyes are always on the leader and he dictates the way it is done, but he also sets an example. And here is another disappointment: the politicians from the government team, from the Ministry of Health, unfortunately did not give this example. And now we have the effect that society no longer believes. This is the worst effect that can be on the rise of epidemics and the management of crisis as it is right now. When the Prime Minister said that it was time to agree with the opposition parties, and he made a meeting, I was one of the participants of the meeting. I went to this meeting with faith that we would talk about the future at this meeting, about what needs to be done, what options of strategy to continue to adopt, what ideas the opposition has, because perhaps some of them should be used. I went to this meeting prepared, with concrete ideas and solutions, but unfortunately I came out disappointed because the Prime Minister paid more attention to what had already been, i.e. history, and for most of this meeting, I listened only to praises, as so far everything was perfectly and how the Minister of Health was doing fantastically during these months, and we did not talk about the future, we did not talk about any strategy. That is why I believe that this stage, which is at the moment, this massive increase in infections is absolutely not under any control. Unfortunately, this has gotten out of hand, it's a fact, but that doesn't mean that we can release the Ministry of Health from responsibility for what we are at this stage of the epidemic. We've got a rough time ahead of us. We know there's a shortage of personnel. We know that beds are increasingly missing, not only for the treatment of COVID, but also for the treatment of any other patients who often, when in an acute state, require immediate help. There's chaos and a mess. Patients go from hospital to hospital, paramedics call the dispatcher to tell them where to leave the patient. It still can't be that way. It's got to be contained somehow. We need to know the next stages which, in the coming months, maybe even in a few distant months, will be implemented, but not like this today's ad hoc law, but in a thoughtful way, the stages that will be discussed with the environment and implemented so that we can say that we are all fighting together and helping. But that will only happen if confidence is restored. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u156	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm not a doctor, so I'm not gonna talk about hospital management, what are the most beneficial treatments for patients with Coronavirus. But for six years as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, I have watched how the state budget is being implemented and how the priorities that should be reflected are being pursued. I am talking about political priorities in budgetary expenditure and expenditure. I would also like to stress very strongly that I have been looking and looking with hope at the work of Minister Adam Niedzielski. I had the opportunity to talk to people who worked with him in the Supreme Auditorium, the Ministry of Finance, and then looked at his work at the National Health Fund. These are good grades. But regardless of his personal qualities, I would like to ask a few public questions here. We have clear political declarations from the rulers: health is our priority. If health is our priority, I'd like to ask you a few questions. We're already after a six-month period of fighting the Coronavirus pandemic. Today, in the main edition of the news, we could hear the Minister of Finance's speech, which boasted: we spent over PLN 150 billion in support of the Polish economy to avoid the consequences of the crisis. Thickly over 150 billion zlotys. During this time, an additional PLN 7.5 billion is spent on health. How much is that? 5% what's on the economy. To health, which should be the most important in the era of the pandemic of Coronavirus. So we have to ask, what's next? And yet we see only a worse future. Why? We're gonna have a drop in revenue for the National Health Fund. We already have estimates that the proceeds from the contributions... Experts are not yet able to give this exactly, we have different analyses, but they say that the proceeds to the National Health Fund this year will be from 5 to 20 billion PLN lower. These estimates, of course, differ, also depending on the scenario adopted, from the level of unemployment. But there is no doubt that these declines will be large, and they will not be limited only to 2020, but will also be in 2021, 2022, 2023 and subsequent years, because everywhere there we will have less economic growth compared to what the government has assumed in the multiannual financial forecasts. What does unemployment mean? Fortunately, it is not so significant yet, but everyone is afraid that it will deepen in the autumn. This is also, of course, a fall in revenue to the state budget and, in particular, to the health budget, because the main source of income from the NFZ is the health contributions that the workers pay. In 2020, among the factors that will influence this, we have factors such as the number of employees, the level of wages and the level of health contributions paid. We're afraid the number of employees will drop. The remuneration, also as a result of the adoption of certain elements of the anti-crisis shields, will also be lower than the one initially planned. And that, of course, affects the health contribution. In such a situation, of course, a subsidy from the state budget is a supplement to revenue, because it is thanks to this mechanism that the government achieves the planned minimum expenditure on health protection, as set out in the Law guaranteeing their growth, so-called. Act 6% on health care. Until now, in order to achieve the legally guaranteed increase in expenditure from the state budget for health care, the state budget fortunately did not have to add much money because the majority was financed by economic prosperity, low unemployment and fast rising salaries. Now what? Well, now we're going to have a recession. A large group of foreigners, mostly Ukrainians, who paid contributions and thanks to them ZUS in recent years also had much better financial results than initially assumed. Mr Adam Niedzielski, still President of the National Health Fund, said some time ago: That's why I'd like to ask you here... Because, of course, we have a bill with its various detailed solutions. But today we are also discussing the future of all health care. What plans does the resort have to provide for healthcare that is adequate for increased needs next year? I will recall here the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber which showed that our public healthcare expenditures, from the state budget, compared to the other 28 countries of the European Union At that time, these statistics included the Great Britain, where Poland is situated at one of the last places. We competed with powers such as Bulgaria and Romania. However, in a certain category Polish patients were in the first place. It was the amount of money you had to put into your treatment out of your private pocket. In this connection, the question arises as to how healthcare will be financed in 2021, especially since the Deputy Minister of Health has provided us today with other information than those which the Minister of Finance has included in his communication on healthcare expenditures in 2021. I'd like to be understood. I'm saying it with concern. Health services cannot be a priority only in political declarations. The health service must be a real priority, which is reflected in financial inputs appropriate to the health needs of Poles and Poles, needs which are now increased. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Well, the minister's not here anymore. Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about strategy here, we're talking about a lot of important things, but ambulances are under the S.R.'s, and patients are waiting for hours for a party. Whatever reality and whatever we're talking about here, there's no way to argue with that. This was the case and it is difficult to say if we have led to it. Maybe we've neglected something, maybe we'll call it something else, but that's a situation that doesn't exist. So if we have a strategy, this strategy has failed. It's a good thing there's this bill, that it's finally called. Covidov law. We've already accepted some shields. We don't call this bill today a health shield or any other shield, because it's not a shield. Well, it's not called height. Its name is so true that its creators do not try to call it a health shield. To talk about the shield, we'd have to take care of the most important things. The shield is used to fight. As everyone knows, you fight when you have money, and there's almost nothing about money. So we have nothing to fight with, and yet we want to go through this pandemic with a dry foot. Well, we're not gonna get through. We need to realize that we really need to spend money this time, we really need to take things seriously. That is why the amendments we are reporting as Left are moving towards an increase in the amount of money spent on hospitals. At least 15% this year And also in the direction of ensuring that health workers who are fighting a pandemic are legally protected... It's not just those who are selectively guided by the voivodships. You want to pay, for example. SOR staff, but transition staff no longer. No, all those involved in the fight against COVID deserve the same additions. Well, 10 minutes isn't enough to describe what's in this bill, but even 30 minutes isn't enough to describe what's not in this bill. It calls for us to depoliticize this discussion so that we do not appeal to politics. There's a chance. The Prime Minister said: "I am sorry for the new restrictions that affect the lives of owners of companies, citizens and employees. I'm sorry that I actually ruled out the possibility that what happened would happen, but I couldn't imagine it would happen. That's what the Czech Prime Minister said. There's probably political agreement there, because one and the other side is trying to do it, and they're trying to tell the truth. If we are to speak with the rulers in one voice, then we must recognize that the rulers are telling the truth. Government officials report that we have 500, 1,000, 2,000, maybe 8,000 vacant seats for patients with a coronavirus. So what are these ambulances doing before the S.R.s? How do we speak with one voice? In that case, we'd have to say the same thing. And I know it's not, and I know the S.O.R. doctors are calling, ambulances are standing, there are no seats. Such advice can be created a helpline. The government creates a hotline for older people to help them very well, it creates a hotline for those applying to work at the National Stadium, it also needs a third hotline where addresses will be given when it comes to these free beds, where ambulances can ride with patients with COVID. We're gonna need a hotline like this, a doctor's gonna call, a paramedic's gonna call, an ambulance driver. And snip! They're coming. Because the government says we have 500, 1 000, 5 000, I don't know how many vacant seats. Okay, so the helpline and the case are settled. But it doesn't seem to arise. There's no strategy. As long as there was a strategy in the spring, a one-name hospital strategy, which was now abandoned, was actually the day before the pandemic was developed in August. There's been a new strategy. I didn't like it right away, because it's a strategy without strategy, a fight without a fight. Patients from COVID will be taking care of family doctors. - Well, once, once, once, but they will. County hospitals, voivodship hospitals, clinics, university hospitals, all of them. You know, it's sadly so that if you took a primary school student and asked who was fighting for health care, he would say: doctors in clinics, hospitals in those, hospitals there, etc. Well, if we're directing a fight everywhere, that means there's no strategy. And there was a proven strategy for single-name hospitals. She was created under the influence of Lombardy experience, where patients also went to all hospitals, so they invented single-name hospitals to take over patients and stop the epidemic. We don't know why we're not going back to this, we're just going through this, we're creating some kind of coordinating hospital, we're trying to sort it out with the National Stadium, and so on. The National Stadium is not enough, unfortunately. The minister said it wasn't fair for all hospitals to get 15%. 'Cause one was closing the troops, the other wasn't closing the troops. It's a total lie. If a hospital shut down troops because they had a coronavirus, for example. because there was a lot of coronavirus infection in the area. There was a voivodship where there were almost no sick, former voivodship, where for many weeks there have been a lot of sick people, and therefore one hospital closed troops and the other did not. If one hospital has an S.R., it is natural that patients with coronavirus enter because the S.R. results are negative, they go to the ward, and then it turns out that they were in such a window when the test comes out negative, and the symptoms appear after 2 and 3 days. They infect other patients and the ward needs to be shut down. That's because there's an S.R. If the hospital operates on a scheduled basis, it can deal with it differently. And this hospital with the SOR is supposed to be the bad hospital because it had to shut down the ward, and this other hospital is supposed to be the good hospital, so it's according to the criteria that the minister presents. Such criteria do not apply. Believe me, one hospital won't envy another, everyone gets 15%. Everyone will be happy about it, because virtually all the benefits are undervalued, were understated before the epidemic, are understated during the epidemic and unfortunately will be understated after the epidemic, which will be actually unbearable. To sum up, I call for very quick action. The law should, of course, be adopted with the amendments that we have tabled. Let us hope that the Sejm will not spoil this and we will be able to help patients and health professionals, as it is now in this law. Let us hope that there will be changes that will go in the right direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u160	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybicka, in remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe I'll start over. In February, there was a Senate meeting where I was yelled at, accused of panicking and imagining. I heard I should put ice in my panties because I'm making up some crap about a coronavirus, and it's kind of like a flu. In answer to the question about masks I heard that instead of masks you should wear bras. Then, on March 4th, there was the first case, when the epidemic took off slowly, all the time, starting with the speech about ice, which is symbolic for me, and about the bras instead of the masks... That's what the whole fight against the pandemic looked like. All the time, all the action was late. We then said, according to the Senate speaker, that you have to test people, that you have to secure places in covid hospitals and that you have to treat other people. We said we had to buy the right number of ventilators, but no one was talking about buying the wrong ones, the ones that aren't there at all, the ones that aren't gonna get to us. The same was true of the other equipment or masks. Looking at all these actions, we can see that at the first lockdown the Poles behaved fantastically. Indeed, they were polite in their homes, politely obeying all their commands. Then May came and the restrictions were relaxed. It's been months, but... I don't want to replace them, everyone knows these months have been completely wasted. This bill is undoubtedly necessary. The Minister of Health is trying to do what he can right now, but the months that have not been used will not be made up. We're here now. We don't have trained personnel for field hospitals that open. Can't it be that... I've completed the army like any of the medics, and I know what the military war doctrine is about fighting infection. That's not how you fight Coronavirus. Today there was a Parliamentary Group meeting in the Senate. Children I've had the privilege of running for 11 years. Professor Krzysztof Simon said on it how COVID is being treated. It's a big play. A lot of drugs are needed for this, and none of them are fully fighting Coronavirus. But if we want to keep one out of 10 patients off the ventilator, as the professor said, so that we don't have to say goodbye to everyone, we need colossal knowledge. You don't see any movement in that direction to distribute highly educated personnel somehow, because I guess that would be the only way. I don't know if he'd be able to control young people at all, as well as young people, but with specialties that you don't have a clue about how to treat infectious diseases, and those that directly endanger life. Coronavirus is an extremely strange virus. We've known Coronavirus for many years. Unfortunately, I'm reading, for apology, the nonsense someone's posting on the Internet. I say, for example. an article from 1972 about the fact that there are coronaviruses. Of course, it is published by someone, as we say, from flatteners, i.e. those who think there is no pandemic at all. They're talking about tardemia. It is obvious that in 1972 no one knew that the virus would mutate to such an extent that a monster would arise in a sense. It's mean, so to speak, affinity to the receptors that are in the lungs, in the gallbladder... I will not repeat what Professor Krzysztof Simon said. Minister, you have to listen to good experts. You have to listen to top-shelf experts, people who have spent their entire lives fighting infectious diseases. And the question is, do you really listen to them? Or maybe their reports are on your desk, but no one reads them? This is a speech to everyone who has so far... I have the impression that one thing is said by the experts we listen to, Paweł Grzesiowski, Krzysztof Simon, Leszek Szenborn and many other fantastic clinic managers from Poland, and something else is being done. We've been humming since February that we need to test. The whole world's testing. What about us? Even if there was a story yesterday, it was quite loud: the woman had a test three times at weekly intervals. She had full COVID symptoms, but not heavy, she was home. The first time she was in line for a few hours. The second time she was standing, too. There's a swab team coming in the third. And all three times, as it turned out, she was presented with a swab that was not suitable for the test. Are there no reagents? Is it really not possible to secure enough tests everywhere at a time when the government is really giving it a "at least" priority to fight COVID? At 50,000 tests today, 11,000 positives came out. And the first thought that came to my mind: are these 50,000 samples taken, and among them, for example. Like those three that go into the bucket? Are these the only tests that have been done? Because even the no-showers that we can't test... And I don't really agree with this approach that was presented today in the media, that it's not worth testing, because one day the virus is and the other day it's gone. Including the head of medical care to catch him when he is and when a man infects him. Because a man like that needs to be isolated. And the one who has antibodies must be restored to work, to help others, and to all other activities. Here's another thing. Wroclaw didn't see anything like it is today. 600,000 people... Sorry, 60,000 people are on the streets of Wroclaw. Since 4:00, all the time. Was it really a moment during the pandemic... That's what I'm saying consciously when I'm discussing this bill. Was it a moment to know what the gender reaction was... Besides, I'm in favour of this reaction. My heart hurts that you might want something like this to let a thing without a head, without an arm, without a leg come into this world, which will cause enormous suffering to both the mother and the whole family, who cannot exist or live, as well as this poor child who is suffering in an even incredible way. That's what medicine is for now, so there's no such thing. And I'm going back to that outing on the streets. There's talk of it... People over the age of 70 are shut down at home. And this is also how: it is said at the beginning that this is a request, Prime Minister Morawiecki asks people after 70 years of age, and then in the regulation we read that this is a warrant. They can go to the store, they can go out. Okay, here's the To the church... I'm a believer, I don't mind going to church, but why... There's a pharmacy on that list, and there's important reasons for life. Why is there no way out to a park where a man can keep his distance, where such a 70-year-old breathes fresh air? It is every doctor who knows that this is needed for his health. Had it not been for the amendments made by the Sejm, the opposition in the Sejm, had it not been for the day that was won, so that these amendments could have been made, if not for the multitude of our Sejm amendments, then this bill would have been one big, chaotic bubel. And it just has to be done in such a way that if really on the banners and on the lips is that we are all going in one direction, then there can be no such thing as making such a number of Poles all over Poland go out into the streets in the days of Cortipinus. It's dangerous, but for these people, for these women. And for me, too. The scarier thing is that you take a man, a woman's right to decide for herself at a time like this. That's not the kind of thing you can do. We also need to listen to what the opposition says and what really good experts say. Otherwise, the effect is that if we have more than 4,000 at the moment, and that's exactly 4483 deaths because of coronavirus... Or coronavirus in someone who's had other diseases. But, ladies and gentlemen, these people could live. Finally, I would like to ask for people who have other chronic diseases. It's these lockdowns, this, you know, an epidemic of fear, that people are afraid to go, with the symptoms of cancer... But it's like one wing that needs to be wiped out... [[Senator, I'm really sorry, ma'am, but I need to step in, 'cause you've been talking for 11 minutes. Either you use the extra five minutes, or you're done, okay?]] You can count as an extra five minutes... [[No, you can't do that. You have to sign up for an extra five minutes or...]] Then let me finish with one sentence. [[Good.]] One thing is that people don't volunteer, and the other is that Minister, you have to do something quickly not to delay the planned and lifesaving surgery and therapy. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u162	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Gromek. [[The voice from the video transmission: But you were talking and talking.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Voice from the room: Domestic sound?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u163	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I've been waiting to get off this scene as soon as possible because we're discussing and discussing. There's a lot of need in this discussion, and I've been seeing it for months. I don't mean to offend anyone, but I'm taught 30 years of self-government work and I've acted more, voted more than I've ever discussed. Many times it repeats itself here and repeats the same sentences. But here's what I'm gonna say. We are attacked, this opposition or most of the Senate, that we are delaying work, making very important decisions. And that's because of your marshal today, and we don't have a meeting tomorrow to pass this bill as soon as possible. And I ask that you no longer speak, because what has to be said has been said. I would like to thank the chairman of the Health Committee, Senator Beacie, who worked with the committee members all weekend. We've been hanging around, resting, and you've been working hard. I think those amendments that are gonna pass today. I know there's gonna be another one, there's gonna be a committee, I don't know what time we're gonna finish today. But I think we're going to finish today, we're going to vote it out so that everything goes to Polish society as soon as possible. Mr. Senator Adam Szejnfeld... Adam, thank you for what you said. You mentioned it in your speech with questions: why not, why not, why not? Many months the government, with the Prime Minister in charge, has been waiting for the situation to develop. And why has it not been prepared for what has happened for many months? There's a second round of pandemics, and it's unpredictable because no one knew what the scale would be. And we don't know how long it's gonna be, like, a few days or a few weeks or a few months. Whoever has not experienced directly what some people experience... Coronavirus, dies families, grandmothers, grandparents, and the closest ones experience it very strongly. I've had twice as much of a coronavirus erased. Fortunately, the results were negative, of which I am very happy, but these 2 days in one case and 2 days in the other case I survived very hard because I was afraid for my health and life and I was afraid for the health and life of my loved ones. That's why the scale that is And we're not prepared for that. I'm afraid it hurts. And what's sad and absolutely impossible? Decisions. Instead of dealing with very important matters for Poles and Poles, for Poland, what gives us life in the social sphere, economic sphere, government or anyone else introduces the famous so-called. The fifth Kaczynski. This is a very important issue for thousands of entrepreneurs, farmers and the economy, the case of already famous minks, foxes and ritual slaughter. And already what happened now and what we see on the streets that helicopters are flying... The matter of this supposedly-TK decision, the Constitutional Court, which... most people who think are questioning that he is honest, fair and well-chosen, and he makes such important decisions. Today, probably a journalist in the Polish Television said this: why in this health crisis, covidowy, in pandemics such decisions are made and Poles and Poles are exposed to something so disgraceful. Because, of course, if the scale gets bigger, it's gonna come down on the women that they've been gathering crowds in cities and towns and going from one person to the other. This can't be right. We must take care of here in the Senate too, but also the Sejm, and even more so the Prime Minister with his government, what is most important to us. A coronavirus, a pandemic. They ask me, as a senator, when will this end? I say, even the smartest scientist or president of all presidents, the whole world, like Trump, doesn't know when it's gonna end. That's why it's our great pain. Of course, some people say this: I have a pension, I don't have to worry; I have 500+ for children; I don't have to worry either. But will you be able to give these 500+s or those full pensions? That's what you have to worry about. The Prime Minister calls for an agreement, let us go to agreement, but not this way and not this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u164	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej in remote mode. Hello, hello, do we have contact with Senator Pociej? I think his son needs to summon him. They're calling you. Can you hear me, Marshal? Yeah, yeah. Now I hear your senator. Please take the floor, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u165	Yes. Thank you very much. It is not easy to speak after so many speakers, at the end, I can only quote certain thesis and repeat the ones said by the senators, and above all, Senator Chybick. We appealed, repeatedly asked for it... we said that Poland was not prepared for COVID. Every time, for over six months, the answer was that everything was wonderfully done. Exchange 2 or even 3 major health ministers only and only confirms that mistakes have been made. I don't think there's a difference of opinion about that. Of course, it is much easier for the government to discuss with the opposition at the moment when there are new ministers, because they are theoretically not responsible for what happened. But the government is the same. If the Prime Minister says that we should throw the fight against the pandemic outside of our political dispute, and this is very often in the media space, then he should answer what was before, because this is some kind of blackmail that I think is unworthy of politics. The opposition has been criticizing all the government's actions or even the majority in turn for the last eight months. You should take responsibility for what the government didn't do. There is no doubt that we are not prepared for the second wave of pandemic. And bringing to what some of my previous speakers have said, and what I must repeat is that Poles, defending themselves against actions that are completely inconsistent with any common sense, must go out into the street. It's playing with human life. I think what happened... And no one will convince me that the Constitutional Tribunal in our reality does not work under the dictation of the ruling majority, and that what happened and provoke it at the time when the pandemic broke out, it is not a political action which is absolutely, but it is absolutely irresponsible. I spoke and received letters from Professor Wyrembak, who has been demanding for at least a year the abortion case at the hearing. And it was blocked. And there was no doubt that it was blocked by political order. Giving green light at this point is really something that will be repeated in the annals of the history of the Polish judiciary. This is the worst moment and this is the exposure of Polish society in a pandemic era to a very big danger. I don't think that's supposed to happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u166	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I inform you that the Senators of Sweden, Bladder, Ślski, Gromko and Godyla have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by the senators Tyszkiewicz, Bober, Kwiatkowski, Martynowski and Jackowski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? Minister? Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. The second reading of the draft law amending the Law on special solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them is now under consideration. I would remind you that this project was presented by the Health Commission under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and is included in print No 238. The provisions relating to the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply when considering this project. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to present the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to present a report on the meeting of the Health Committee on which the draft law was submitted. His designer was Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Since the scope of the proposed project is, it can be said, very common and, in some ways, broadening the scope of the Health Committee's work in the context of the COVID crisis prevention legislation, the proposal has been adopted by the Health Committee and we are now proceeding with it. This is why it is a report from the Health Committee. I want to present the situation that took place at the committee meeting. After presenting the justification for this proposal, there was no more discussion at the Health Committee meeting. This project was adopted and totally understood by the members of the Health Committee, because it is common and consistent with public health principles and with one of the principles that we are now talking about very often, at the time of the epidemic, i.e. the principle of distance-keeping. The bill submitted concerns 2 issues, namely the abolition of the trade ban on Sundays and additionally provides workers who work in trade, 2 Sundays free within 4 weeks. In the explanatory memorandum, we paid particular attention to health issues, because an additional trading day offers more opportunities to shop, it is this 1 additional day and thus it increases the possibilities of keeping distance. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the senators paid particular attention to the seniors who have the estimated shopping time at the moment, that is 2 hours between 10 a.m. and 12 a.m. , and they understand it very often in such a way that this is the only time they can shop. When I presented my report on the previous bill, I also talked about these problems with the senators... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...sorry, with seniors and I asked the Ministry of Health to make it very clear what are the possibilities of sharpening for seniors, especially those aged 70+. And this law, in addition, makes it even more possible to reduce the number of people in commercial establishments. But there is also a second aspect, of course, related to the economy. At the moment, the situation in the commercial sector is unfortunately not the best and this 1 day of additional trade will improve both financial and liquidity in terms of goods and guarantee jobs. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the senators accepted this proposal and I therefore have the honour to present a report to the High Senate and ask that this draft law be voted out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u168	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I remind you that the applicants have authorized Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Senator, do you prefer to answer this question from your place or... [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: I can do this right away, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I would like you to convince the High House, but also me that this bill is not a purely lobbyist act, because I read about such intentions in various portals much earlier than you did with such a project. Why? Because the current article. 15i allows trade on Sunday in the field of unloading, acceptance and exposure of goods of first need. Tell me what you're really talking about in this bill. 'Cause if I hear it's supposed to provide more shopping opportunities on an extra day... If someone stays in the premises more often with other people, is it good or bad? Does it increase the possibility of getting sick or decrease? Right now we can only enter the store six days a week, and that's 7 days a week. Is there a better chance of getting infected or less? Because there are other regulations about keeping the distance, for example. number of supported customers depending on the number of cash registers or the area of the store. It's a very simple question. Please answer me why, in the explanatory memorandum, you are referring to increasing the liquidity of the goods. What is more important: the health and life of Poles or the possibility of liquefying goods? Perhaps the economic aspects are important, but the question is: does this economy have a priority in terms of health and life in a pandemic situation? What is this all about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u170	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I'm not a lobbyist, I'm certainly not a lobbyist at any store. I am a doctor and public health specialist and I decided to take over this project, among others. because I see in him an opportunity to increase distance and improve health safety. And only in this respect, and only in this, I repeat the discussion about this problem in the Health Commission. We have not considered either GDP or income or economic liquidity, we have wondered how this will affect health and, as I say, we have taken seniors first of all into account. That's one thing. Secondly, if the senator asks if if I'm in the store six or seven times a week, it's a possibility of more frequent infection... But we don't assume that one person will be in the store every day, only that she will have another extra day when she will be able to shop, and not that she will run to this store every day and 6 times a week she will have the opportunity to contact other people. I don't know if the senator's been shopping in the last two weeks when the minister's order came in, that there are hours for seniors. Did you see what groceries look like between 10:00 and 12:00 p.m. ? Because I've seen it, and I'm terrified how many people are shopping at that time. And all the more so with all my conviction I can say that this one extra day will allow the number of people in the store to be smaller at a given hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u172	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions, Senator? No further questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Robert Tomanek: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am honored that the first task that I received when I arrived today from Katowice to the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology, is to come to this room. I'm very honored. Forgive me for the missteps that are likely to happen. I would like to give you the 2 information that has been prepared for me. According to the Ministry of Development, it is too early at this stage to address as far-reaching proposals as the abolition of the trade ban on Sundays and holidays. This is caused by, among other things, the fact that the Ministry has a rather diverse voice in this matter. There are votes of support. I would like to say that such a request has been made, among others. The Polish Council of Trade Centres and the Confederation of Leviathan, but there are also voices that demand that the current ban be maintained. This is supported by organizations such as the Polish Chamber of Commerce, the Polish Association of Micro-Entrepreneurs and Franchizers, the National Audit Union of Food Cooperatives, the Pomeranian Association, the Gdańsk Consultative Council at the spokesperson of small and medium-sized enterprises. Since I've only been undersecretary for a few hours, I'm going to appeal to my expertise, my economic experience. This decision has pros and cons, but it certainly carries risks. Well, you're gonna have to settle this with no data. We don't have that data. All the conclusions that reach us are qualitative or para-qualitative. There are very few specific calculations, specific data. I personally remember that when this ban was introduced two years ago, there were many casandric voices that just didn't work out. Forgive me for representing the Ministry and the Government here today, but I also refer to my expertise, but I see a great risk in this decision. In the end, all I can say is what I started with. At this stage, it is too early to be competent to refer to these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Please remain on the stand for just a moment, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to the representative of the government present at the meeting on this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Then thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Robert Tomanek: Thank you.]] I wish you a fruitful work for the Republic of Poland. Good luck. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Adam Szejnfeld. You're welcome, Senator, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u175	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing a project relating to demands and appeals that have been raised in Poland for practically many years, at least since 2017, i.e. since the year in which the Trade Ban Act was adopted, and since 2018, when it entered into force. There is no doubt that this problem, the prohibition of trade on Sundays, divides public opinion, but divides it unevenly. Recent studies show that 55% citizens are in favour of abolishing the trade ban on Sundays, 32% has the opposite opinion, and 12% He doesn't have an opinion. So the absolute majority is in favour of abolishing the trade ban on Sundays. At this point, to be honest, I don't want to relate to these divisions. I do not want to refer to the arguments for and against, because we operate in a completely different reality than in 2017, when this case was settled, or in 2018, when these rules entered into force. It is 2020, perhaps the first such year in Poland's history in general, and certainly in recent history. The generation that is now living does not remember such a crisis, it does not know the crisis that has now affected us. Few, there is no wise man in Poland I'd say there's probably no wise man in the world. Who would tell us what's gonna happen next month, two months or six months from now. All we know is what it is. What's wrong? There is a huge health risk for citizens. We have an increasing wave of infections, and we have an increasing number of fatalities. This is the case when it comes to society and the health of citizens. At the same time, this is the result. We have an unprecedented economic crisis. For the first time since 1989, we have a recession in Poland. The result is an amendment to the budget that we will be debating this week. We have more than 100 billion deficits in the budget, we have failing companies, we have threatening employees of various industries, commercial and service companies, because these two sectors combine economic effects... We have employees who might have to. To knock on the door, let's hope it's the smallest number of transitions from employment to unemployment benefits. And there's a drama about the budget of a country where there's no more money. Because if we're so short, it means there's no money. There's no money for normal functioning, there's no money for investment, there's no money for social assistance, there's no money for social assistance. It's all aggravating the deficit, we're in debt. We owe ourselves in a way that is disproportionate to anything we've ever known. And it's not about quotas anymore, it's about tempo, it's about geometry. It's not about arithmetic anymore, it's about the geometry of the increase in this debt. We are talking about what we are talking about here and now, in 2020 and not what was at the heart of all this in 2017. This law does not provide for the abolition of prohibitions, it does not provide for a return to the condition of 2017. This law, like most anti-covid laws, which are called shields, provides for temporary solutions, for epidemics, for pandemics, for crisis, for recession. She is to be one of the instruments, one of the many, of the tens, of the hundreds of instruments that are recently introduced by the Government of Law and Justice, which are adopted by the Sejm and the Senate and which can be evaluated differently. One's better, the other's worse, but all of them... I hope that not only are they accepted with good intentions, but they also work with good results. And they have one thing in common: they are temporary, they concern this dramatic time in Poland. The contested law is also of such nature. She's supposed to function temporarily, in the period in which we're at risk of the epidemic, and at most 90 days after it's cancelled. Let's hope this happens as soon as possible. Let's hope so. The beneficiaries of this law will not only be service and commercial companies. I will repeat this because services and trade are highly dependent on each other. So thousands, thousands of Polish companies. Actually, as I say thousands, I'm wrong to say, because we have more than 300 000, 350 000 businesses themselves, and when we add services to this, I think we can talk about the number of about 0.5 million companies, and the number of people employed is over 1 billion 300 000. We want to keep as few people as possible because we cannot save everyone, but so that as few people as possible are affected by this crisis, especially as a result of bankruptcy, collapse, especially as a result of dismissal. So she's supposed to support the company, and she's supposed to support the employees. What is the effect or one of the effects of a trade ban on Sundays and epidemics? Namely, that these companies want to thin themselves... try to expand the number of customers, so they extend the working time of shops and it happens that many shops or most of them work until 22.00, 23.00, 24.00, and there are ones that work 24 hours a day. Does that serve the workers? Was that the effect of the ban on trade on Sunday? So people work 24 hours a day? Well, certainly not. So instead of thinning out the number of customers by opening stores 24 hours a day, let's do it by prolonging work in a week, with 5 days as I say, to 7, and 5, because this sixth day was taken too, because of 2 hours a day, which multiplied by 6 days a week, give 12 hours a day, a whole day. I've already mentioned the budget and its needs. But in the end, I want to talk about health. You could say, although you can't say: whatever the budget, more bonds will be released, more money will be printed and that's it. You can't say that, because of course someone has to pay it back, they'll be paying not only people living today, but their children and grandchildren. But you can also say: what business, one company will fall, the other will have difficulties, maybe thousands of people will go to the market, but they will find another job. Can you say that? Well, somebody can say that. I'm not gonna say that, but someone can say that. However, can citizens' health risks be underestimated? We mustn't underestimate that. And the increasing queues... I know, I'm sure there are people here in this room who don't make any purchases in person, even those that family members don't buy, so maybe they don't have a clue what's going on in the shops, especially on Fridays or Saturdays. [[Mr. Senator, I'm just informing you that time is up, unless you're counting five more minutes...]] No, I'm done, I just said this is the last argument. But those who want and have to shop are putting themselves at risk during their necessary life responsibilities for too many contacts with people who are not known to be carriers of the virus. Therefore, thinning a group of people in shops by extending the sales week will serve this idea. At least temporarily, during this period of unprecedented economic and economic and health crisis, we should do so, beyond political divisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u176	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Wojciech Necessary. The discussion is closed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u177	I would like to make a request to appoint committees for the sitting so that the vote is still held at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u178	Thank you very much. [[Senator Sekuła for the record...]] For the record, Senator Sekuła gave your speech to the minutes. Senator Bosacki has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill at this meeting. If I do not hear any objection, I will consider the Senate to accept the motion. [[Tonight. This meeting is three days old. I understand that the proposal is that today...]] [[Voice from the hall: So it was said.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In that case, I understand that the proposal concerns today. If I do not hear any objection, I will consider the Senate to accept the motion. I can't hear you objecting. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u179	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The meeting of the Health Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending certain laws in relation to the crisis prevention related to the occurrence of COVID-19 [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u180	The announcement of the meeting of the relevant committee will still be made, because we need to... Dismissed until 11:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 02 to 23 minutes 57]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u181	Ladies and gentlemen! We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. A meeting of the Health Committee took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is in print No 235 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u182	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind, I'll speak from the spot. I am pleased to present to you the report of the Health Committee on the Law amending certain laws in relation to the crisis prevention of the occurrence of COVID-19. A debate took place during the second reading. 11 amendments were tabled, one of which was welcomed by the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u183	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion by Senators Marek Martynowski, Jan Maria Jackowski, Ryszard Bober and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. So what, gentlemen? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] From what you can see on the screen, everyone was in favour, but... [[Talking in the O.R.]] What's going on, gentlemen? [[Voice from the room: There's a problem with remotes. Some vote needs to be taken to ensure that the results are correct.]] For technical reasons, I'm asking you to take one trial vote because there's a problem communicating with a few people. It seems to be solved. I'm holding a rehearsal vote, then. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, now a trial vote, which is to see if the system is working properly. This vote is only for the purpose of checking the efficiency of the system. Please cast any vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: The system is failing.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Water pour.]] [[Voice from the room: It's not gonna work.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] That's not a good result. That's the result. Only from 2 rooms, from room 217... [[Sorry, let's do one more thing. Okay?]] But I... gentlemen, on this screen, it shows me that 52 responded, which means they voted. [[Voice from the room: Yes, but we send from Webex and we don't give the sum...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Now, last time it worked. If we could just do one more thing...]] Please ask for one more technical vote, which is to press any button. If it doesn't work out, we'll announce a 10-minute break. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: And night sittings...]] This is, Senator, only at the request of our piss buddies who were rushing us to do it quickly. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the O.R.: We have to take a break because something's wrong.]] Mr. Tom, but here he shows me... [[Voice from the room: Yes, but there is no sum, it does not send us the sum. It once worked...]] Yeah, but if we do, we're gonna do the math by hand if... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: We'll just restart...]] 10 minutes off to reboot the system. [[Adjournment from 0 minutes 05 to 0 minutes 15]] Ladies and gentlemen, the session is resumed. We're gonna try and do another test vote. Please vote and press any button. This is a test vote. Please cast your vote. Please state the results of the vote. [[No recording]] Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is as follows: we see on the screens the results from the plenary room and from room 217 and the results from the remote vote, but the system does not add up from these 3 places. I will therefore do this manually in the presence of the secretary of the sitting. We have 53 votes ahead. I hope we can do this pretty quickly. [[Voice from the Chamber: No reading of the amendments.]] No, if you don't mind, I'm gonna... You're gonna leave the results, aren't you? Here, so I can see them. We therefore proceed with the vote on Amendment 1. Amendment 1 is only editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll announce it loud and clear. Note: Amendment 2 will rule out voting on Amendment 52. Amendment 2 seeks to ensure that provisions providing for the possibility of agreeing to pursue the profession of doctor or dental practitioner to persons who have been qualified outside the European Union apply to the expiry of a period of 180 days from the date of cancellation of an epidemic or epidemic. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voice from the room: Tomek, watch over there.]] We're watching, we're watching. [[Voice from the room: You have to look at the enemy's hands.]] This is 82, 87, 88... 88 senators voted against, 5 against, 82 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 4]] [[Voice from the room: 1, 2 and 4 together 7.]] 7 per. [[Voice from the room: 700.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Okay. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We can do this. Amendment 3 seeks to clarify that the amended provision of the Act on the profession of doctor and dentist also refers to the authorisation to pursue the profession of dental practitioner. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment No 4 aims to ensure that a person who has obtained qualifications outside the European Union is required to agree to the profession of a doctor or a dental practitioner, not to make a declaration that he has sufficient knowledge of the Polish language to perform the professional activities entrusted to him. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Room vote: 41 for, 50 against and 3 abstentions.]] Yes. We just need to sum up... [[Voice from the room: 94.]] 94 senators voted, 41 votes against, 50 against and 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 5 aims to ensure consistency within the amended provisions of the Act on the profession of doctor and dentist. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 6 seeks to delete an unnecessary part of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 7 seeks to align the establishment of an international agreement with the principles of legislative technique. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 8 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 9 seeks to identify the addressee of legal regulation. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 10 seeks to supplement the Law on the amendment of the Penal Code on the power of the court to convert a sentence of imprisonment into a fine or a sentence of limitation of liberty where the Act provides for a sentence of imprisonment not exceeding 8 years. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 3 senators voted against 89, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 11 aims to ensure that the voivodeship's order to use municipal guards for joint action with the police is conditional on obtaining the consent of the competent territorially elected mayor, mayor or president of the city. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 48 against 45, no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 12 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 93 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] Note: on Amendment No 13, 47 and 55 must be voted together. These amendments aim to properly place the substantive provision in the system of the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 14 aims to ensure that the extension of the time limit for the implementation of the prescription during an epidemic or epidemic is carried out by means of a regulation rather than a notice. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 94 senators voted, 50 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 15 seeks to establish rules on reimbursement of costs to healthcare providers in the absence of the possibility for the recipient to benefit from healthcare on a general basis during an epidemic or epidemic period. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 5 for, 87 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 16 seeks to waive one of the criteria for the President of the National Health Fund to monitor the performance of public-funded tasks. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 47 for, 45 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 17 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 92 were in favour, 1 against. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 18 seeks to delete the rules which provide for the performance of the tasks of the national medical emergency coordinator in cooperation with a team of 5 members appointed by the Minister responsible for Health. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 46 were in favour, 45 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 19 seeks to ensure the terminology coherence of the amended provision of the Law on State Medical Rescue. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 20 seeks to ensure that, during the period of notification of an epidemic or epidemic, the medical emergency team consists of at least three persons, including at least one professional pilot and a system physician and a medical emergency worker or a system nurse. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 91 senators voted, 88 were in favour, 3 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 22]] Note: Amendment 21 will rule out voting on Amendment 22. Amendment 21 seeks to refrain from modifying the scope of the cases referred to in the Regulation of the Council of Ministers on the establishment of certain restrictions, orders and prohibitions in relation to the occurrence of an epidemic in relation to medical examination and the application of preventive measures and treatments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 16 votes against, 74 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 23]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo.]] The amendment was rejected. We are voting on Amendment 22, which aims to clarify that a regulation of the Council of Ministers on the establishment of certain restrictions, orders and prohibitions in relation to the occurrence of an epidemic may lay down an obligation to apply certain preventive measures and treatments by persons suspected of being ill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 Senators voted 51 and 40 against and 2 Senators abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 23 seeks to delete the provision that public procurement rules are not applicable to contracts for services, supplies or works in relation to the prevention and eradication of an epidemic in an area where an epidemic or epidemic is declared. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 94 senators, 48 votes for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 24 seeks to ensure that a provision establishing an obligation for the authorities of medical professions to transmit to the voivode or the Minister responsible for health the list of persons engaged in medical professions does not specify that this list is intended to refer to persons who may be addressed to work. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 94 senators, 47 votes 46 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 25 aims to ensure that men aged sixty to sixty-five years of age are not assigned to work at risk of infection in the fight against the epidemic. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 48 were in favour, 43 against, 2 abstained. [[Voting No 27]] N.B.: Amendments 26 and 49 should be voted together. These amendments aim to ensure that a judgment on a chronic disease which is prevented from being referred to work may be issued by a physician with a specialization or a medical professional with a chronic disease or a specialist in infectious diseases. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 27 seeks to delete the provision which provides that the Minister responsible for Health may suspend, by decision, the head of the healthcare provider of the hospital in the exercise of his rights and obligations and appoint an agent to exercise them. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 45 were in favour, 46 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 29]] The amendment was not accepted. Amendment 28 seeks to correct the reference in order to ensure consistency of the provision added. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Note: Amendment 29 will exclude the vote on Amendment 30. Amendment 29 seeks to extend the deadline after which the competent body is required to liquidate the public health establishment itself from 12 to 36 months from the expiry of the deadline to cover the loss. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 45 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 31]] The amendment was not accepted and we are voting on Amendment 30. Amendment 30 seeks to extend the deadline referred to in the previous amendment from 12 to 24 months from the expiry of the deadline to cover losses. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 85 were in favour, 4 against, and four senators abstained. [[Voting No 32]] N.B.: Amendments 31 and 54 should be voted together. These amendments aim to ensure that the entitlement provided for in the Act to receive 100% the remuneration or remuneration during the period of stay on medical leave and the exemption from the performance of the duties were also covered by Customs and Treasury officials. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 46 were in favour, 46 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] The amendments did not gain the majority. Amendment 32 seeks to delete an unnecessary part of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 33 seeks to ensure that during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic condition, the insured person employed in the medical establishment during the period of compulsory quarantine, isolation or isolation in the home, resulting from contact with persons suffering from COVID-19 in connection with the performance of obligations arising from employment in that entity, also has the right to 100% salaries. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 34 seeks to ensure that support granted during the duration of an epidemic or epidemic to an insured person employed in a medical entity during the period of compulsory quarantine, isolation or isolation in domestic conditions is not subject to contact with persons suffering from COVID-19 in relation to the performance of obligations arising from employment in that entity. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 92 senators voted, 4 for, 87 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 35 seeks to delete an unnecessary part of the provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] Note: Amendment 36 will exclude the vote on Amendment 40. Amendment 36 seeks to ensure that during the period of notification of an epidemic or epidemic situation to workers of medicinal products, to persons engaged in medical professions and to persons with whom contracts have been concluded for the provision of health services which have not been assigned to work but are involved in the provision of health services to persons with COVID-19 or persons suspected of being infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus, a monthly supplement to the remuneration of 100% the amount of the monthly salary resulting from the employment contract or other contract under which the work is carried out. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 Senators voted, 49 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 37 seeks to ensure consistency of the added provisions so-called. It's a covid bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 38 aims to create a state special-purpose fund to finance the purchase of SARS-CoV-2 tests for health professionals, social workers, parents and carers of children up to the age of 1 and those over the age of 60. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 39 seeks to establish the legal basis for voluntary life insurance for health workers, which would be financed by the State budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 48 for, 44 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 41]] Note: the vote on Amendment 40 only if Amendment 36 is rejected and Amendment 36... [[Voice from the room: It was accepted.]] ...was accepted, so we are not voting on this amendment. Amendment 41 aims to ensure that the insured farmer and his household are entitled to a minimum wage in the event of compulsory quarantine, epidemiological surveillance or hospitalisation in connection with COVID-19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 14 votes, 76 against, 4 senators abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Note: Amendment 42 excludes voting on Amendments 43 and 44. This amendment aims to modify the rules for receiving assistance by voluntary firefighters in connection with the identified infection or disease or quarantine and isolation of a volunteer firefighter during the period of notification of an epidemic or epidemic. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 51 votes, 39 against, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 43]] The adoption of this amendment therefore excludes voting on Amendments 43 and 44. Amendment 45 seeks to require the President of the NF to amend the financial plan of the Fund for 2020 in order to increase by at least 15% the flat-rate fee to be paid to finance health care services carried out in relation to COVID-19, taking into account the principle that the appropriations transferred which will not be used until 31 December 2020 are non-refundable. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 94 senators voted, 48 for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 46 seeks to delete the provision that the infringement by the trader of restrictions, orders and prohibitions on the conduct of economic activities established in connection with the occurrence of an epidemic or epidemic situation constitutes the basis for refusal of State aid, in particular financial support granted on the basis of the so-called. It's a covid bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-four senators voted... [[The voice from the room: 93, because it's 35.]] Oh, I'm sorry. 93 senators voted because you didn't vote Senator Majer, 50 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 47, I remind you, has already been voted on, including others. Amendment 48 seeks to add a provision that the decisions of health inspection bodies issued in the event of suspected infection with SARS-CoV-2 or disease caused by COVID-19 shall not apply where decisions submitted in a way other than in writing are subsequently served in writing after the reasons for such service have ceased. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voices from the hall: Oh!]] Vote... [[Voice from the room: It's fixed.]] Well, well, well. 91 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 46]] As they say, it's better late than never. Mr. Secretary and I have made a great deal of intellectual effort, so maybe our fluids have made a little bit of difference. Amendment 49, let me remind you, it's already been voted out. Amendment 50 seeks to add a transitional provision on the one hand concerning administrative referral proceedings, on the other hand administrative and judicial proceedings on decisions taken on referrals to work Initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Well, it's a whimsical system. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 51 seeks to ensure that the possibility of re-calculating the cash benefits paid before the date of entry into force of the Act applies not only to insured persons employed in a medical facility during the period of the epidemic or epidemic risk, but also to persons employed in social assistance agencies providing services 24 hours a day, accommodation facilities and other facilities providing 24-hour care to persons with disabilities, chronically ill or elderly. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 52 seeks to ensure that the provisions providing for the possibility of consenting to the profession of a doctor or dental practitioner to persons who have been qualified outside the European Union cease to apply 2 years after the date of entry into force of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voting No 49]] 93 senators voted, 48 for, 45 against, no one abstained. Amendment 53 seeks to ensure that the entitlement provided for in the Act to receive 100% the remuneration or remuneration during the period of medical leave and the exemption from the performance of the duties entered into force with effect from 5 September 2020 for all persons concerned. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 92 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 50]] That's the end of the amendments. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 92 for, 1 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 51]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crisis situations related to the occurrence of COVID-19. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Gentlemen, point two. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We are returning to the second agenda: second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. The Senate, following a second reading of the bill, sent the draft to the Health Committee and obliged this committee to present an additional report, which is in print No 238 X, at this meeting. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I am pleased to present the report of the Committee on Printing No 238 X on the legislative initiative to amend the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. As part of the second reading, 1 amendment was tabled, which was withdrawn during the work of the Health Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-26-senat-17-1.u185	Thank you very much. Does the senator want to speak again? During the second reading, a legislative proposal was tabled by Senator Wojciech Necessary, but later withdrew its proposal, contained in print No 238 X. Would any of your senators like to ask a question to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report presented? No. Does anyone want to maintain their withdrawal request? No. We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption by the Health Committee of the draft law and the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law contained in print No 238. The Commission proposes that the Senate authorise Senator Adam Szejnfeld to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 88 senators voted, 45 for, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 52]] And that agrees with what we see here. Good. Thank you very much. Tomorrow is the morning of the committee meeting. The session starts at 4:00 p.m. I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow, until 4:00 p.m. [[Voice from the room: Until today.]] Well, until today, actually. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 01 minutes 18]]
