ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u1	Dear Members, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Culture and Media - hour 10, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 10, - Health-- hour. 13, - Economy and Development - h.m. 14, - Education, Science and Youth together with the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development - h.m. 16, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u2	Thank you very much. We proceed with the consideration of items 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the agenda: I would like to ask Mr Czesław Hoca to present the justification for the bill of 683 in print. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u3	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present a parliamentary bill on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. High Izbo! This parliamentary bill is another excellent opportunity to first express deep gratitude and sincere respect and beautiful words of thanks to all employees of Polish health services, our contemporary heroes in the fight against COVID-19. This bill is an expression of genuine concern and our parliamentary duty, even a categorical imperative, in order to ensure a sense of health security for Poles and Poles, an endless saving of their lives and health in such a difficult and dramatic period of the pandemic of Cortipinus. On the other hand, the foundation and warp of the content of this bill is the main principle in the medical promise of the Code of Medical Ethics: Salus aegroti suprema lex esto - the health of each patient is the highest law. High Izbo! The modern world shuddered before the invisible but so dangerous and cunning enemy, a coronavirus that once again attacked with double force. The whole world, Europe is fighting. This dramatic period of the COVID-19 pandemic is a difficult and special time, so we must also take difficult and specific measures. It would be perfect if, in the name of human solidarity, we worked together and in unity, in accordance with the current slogan: All hands on deck. Thus, we increase to 200% the basic salary together with the derivatives for those who are directed by the voivode to work related to the fight against COVID-19. We introduce a clause of a merciful Samaritan, otherwise the no-fault system, without guilt, or not punishing for unblamed medical errors in the situation of saving human life. We introduce the right to retain 100% pay during the period of exemption from service due to the detection of infection or illness, quarantine, isolation or domestic isolation in the case of police officers, Border Guards, State Fire Department, State Security Service and Polish Army soldiers. We strengthen the competence of the voivodship medical emergency coordinator to effectively place patients in hospitals. We introduce the possibility of addressing to work in the fight against the epidemic of medical agents, professionals and others, e.g. students of medical professions, PhD students, paramedics, doctors who are in the middle of a post-graduate internship or doctors who have completed an internship but have not yet passed a medical final exam. We introduce provisions that allow, in a simplified manner, but also under strict control of the relevant consultants, the district medical chambers, under the supervision of specialists, the employment of specialist doctors who have obtained professional qualifications outside the European Union - but under strict restrictions and compliance with the requirements set out in the Act. The Council of Ministers will be able, by means of a regulation, to establish a catalogue of restrictions, obligations and orders, including the obligation to cover mouth and nose. A fine of up to 1 000 will be imposed. zł. We introduce the possibility of suspending, in particularly justified cases, the head of the healthcare provider of the hospital in the event of a refusal to comply with an obligation or order or improper execution, with the right to remuneration, the lodging of a complaint to the administrative court and the automatic expiry of the suspension 30 days after the date of the cancellation of the epidemic. We unify and seal the way medical certificates are issued. For the existing provision in the Act on Medical Chambers, Article. Paragraph 83. 1 point 7, on the right to disenfranchise the profession of doctors, we add the possibility of disenfranchising the profession for a certain range of professional activities, time and place of employment in a medicinal entity; of course, this will most often apply to doctors employed outside the European Union. We extend the period of implementation of prescriptions for drugs that are currently not available. And we introduce the possibility of sanctions oriented on the practice of refusing to admit a patient with suspicion and diagnosis of COVID, which will be controlled by the fund. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The ancient operative part of the younger Seneca is well known: In difficulties, appeal to reason. Numerous ranks of our contemporary health heroes, mainly on the front line of the fight against the coronavirus, can slowly decrease. Disease, isolation, domestic isolation, quarantine and even death are the main reasons for weakening this line. What's important, they can become patients, too. Therefore, in the name of professional solidarity, social solidarity and in the name of the sacred issue of the life and health of every citizen, we have a sacred duty to save him. Today is not the time for feuds and political arguments, in black sight. We are strong and we will defeat the enemy, but if we are together, we will win faster and without so many casualties. So I ask for the support of the Parliamentary bill. [[♪ The bell ♪]] amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. At the same time, we are open to further, for good and beneficial solutions in the proposals submitted, proposals for opposition laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u4	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Zdzisław Wolski to present the justification for the draft law on printing No. 684.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u5	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 10 April, by the Council of Ministers' regulation, we were required to wear masks, to cover our mouths and noses. At that time, in April, the situation in society was different. We remember that society was extremely disciplined. At that time there was very little situation of wearing masks, and certainly not wearing a demonstration. But the situation has changed, also as the highest representatives of the state authorities, with the President, the Prime Minister and even the Minister of Health, began to ignore this for political reasons. We also remember that, especially before the presidential elections, it was shouted that the epidemic was basically over, which unfortunately turned out to be untrue. All thinking people listening to scientists already knew in the spring that an epidemic, and that on a large scale, would happen. We were thinking about November, December, it started earlier. The situation in the country is very dramatic. Now, without much opportunity to protect patients from the consequences of the COVID - this will be the subject of separate discussions - although let us protect ourselves. The Left has therefore proposed amendments to the Law on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Humans in 2008. That's what the Council of Ministers leaned on. But there were deniers of many who questioned masks, very active. There have been trials in which the courts, in accordance with the current letter of law, have lifted the penalties for not wearing masks. Also, when a shopkeeper refused to serve a patient without a mask, it turned out that the shopper was being punished. We want to end this. We propose in our bill to amend the law on prevention and control of infectious diseases and infections in humans, so that the health minister clearly manages the obligation to wear masks, for example. helmets in the case of motorcyclists who fulfil this role - these are details - in places of general interest, i.e. in commercial facilities, in collective transport, in service facilities, in the banking sector. There's a lot of references. I repeat that this is about situations where we meet in public, public facilities, we do not have a public space here. In the paragraph of this law, there will be a clear provision concerning those who do not comply with the guidelines of the Minister of Health. They will already be fined in a clear way, undisputable by any courts. We also propose to add an article on the fact that not wearing masks can be a legitimate reason for refusing to sell or withdraw from the offer within the meaning of the Act - Civil Code, which is also about media cases, when the saleswoman was being punished. We have a situation right now... I appeal to those who question the wearing of masks - perhaps you also sometimes get very threatening emails about the fact that it doesn't work, and in the case of flu it was not effective - for now we have nothing better to propose to society than those desperate actions which my predecessor spoke about, as set out in this law. Let us save ourselves so that the disease spreads as slowly as possible so that our inefficient health care can as much as possible before the epidemic - everyone can certainly not help, no matter what the government would accuse us of - serve us during the epidemic to slow down the spread of the disease so that patients in a severe and especially demanding condition are as low as possible. We can already see very, very disturbing and dramatic situations. I appeal to those who are young, know that they are not at risk (the bell): they are not at risk, but they can spread this disease to older people, oncology patients and others. The masks, the masks and the whole DDM rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u6	Thank you. I would now like to ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak to present the justification for the draft law on printing No 685.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u7	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The time has come, the moment has come when we present important laws for the life of Poles, for the health system. Let's be honest, these laws should have appeared at the Sejm at least two months ago. It's a good thing we're starting to talk about them today, but we all know that it's a late act and that's only because we have a fire in the health system. The Polish People's Party and the Polish Coalition Club presented a bill, which today we have the opportunity to talk about, already in March. We put it together in April, because at that time there was the greatest need to go out with the wage allowance initiative for all health care workers, but also for social workers who provide medical services that help infected people and suspected of infection. We have taken this initiative, and today the government is also taking a similar initiative, but let us be aware of why the government is coming up with this type of action. Because there's a problem. We have offered our additional remuneration to health and social workers not only to give them an additional fee, but also to make up for this very hard work in the strategic profession, also to honor their work. This should be at the very beginning of the epidemic, not today, when the government is trying to save the situation. Ladies and gentlemen! A similar government law speaks of the Samaritan's good clause. But we know that a good Samaritan didn't take money to help another man. Today we know it's a smoke screen, trying to get people to work in hospitals. Law and Justice thinks he's gonna do everything for money to buy doctors for money. But doctors aren't law and justice activists, it's not that you have money and a deal. It takes a lot more delicacy here. The draft laws presented by the government today are a great improvisation of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Talk about your project. The rules cannot be chaotic, surprising, incomprehensible, because what happened in the Czech Republic will happen when your minister comes out and says what the Czech Minister said. Mr President, we would like to hear about your bill. And who knows if you are already secretly, apart from the microphones, saying the same thing about the Moravian Prime Minister. This is closely related to our bill, because our bill was pre-emptive, far-sighted. Prime Minister Morawiecki looks only at his feet, does not look far ahead, and this is what is expected of the person performing the most important functions in the country. Today you are introducing regulations on masks, after this great chaos, after what former Minister Szumowski said, after what the chief health inspector said, today you are regulating it, but one day you will have to write regulations on the ban on head jumping into an empty pool, because this is what the information policy in the country will get to. If you're gonna jump, you're gonna have to write. There is a lack of a large, professional information action based on the views of authorities, focused in one hand, which will convince Poles to the current epidemic risks that occur in our country. There is a lack of consultation with local authorities. Why are you introducing, for example, such ad hoc solutions as these, which today assume the need to cooperate with municipal guards, with city guards? Where's that cooperation you've always talked about? I think that in a few hours, Mr Morawiecki should come out to that podium and sprinkle his head with ash. I think it's you guys. We have to stop with fanfare, stop with the propaganda of success, because today we have huge problems with the health system. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Mr President, you are to present your project. All your actions are late. Today, as you can see on the palm of your hand all the negligence in the health system, little of it, there is a lack of action that you did not take during your vacation. You slept through the whole vacation. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] And you've slept through decades. What are you building today? National hospital. But when did the opposition tell you that you had to take care of it when she said it? You're talking about the health department. What does this bill introduce when it comes to health care? That you're gonna have extra deputies? I remember when we were talking about systemic changes in the health inspection from that podium. What did you do? That the county inspector won't appoint an governor, just a government? These are not changes (the bell) that Poles are waiting for. The same applies to medical rescue, where you only offer manual, instrumental control without proposing any systemic changes. This is not what the Poles expect. Thank you, sir. This whole situation illustrates what is happening in the health system. One sentence, if you please, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u8	I would like to ask Mr Jack Protas to present the justification for the bill in print No. 686. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u9	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The local government in Poland plays a huge, indisputable role in ensuring the smooth functioning of the state. It carries out 2/3 of the public sector's investment and is responsible for organising the vast majority of services for residents. The local government owns more than half of Polish hospitals. Local authorities organise, supervise the functioning of schools and educational establishments, provide public transport to residents, are responsible for waste management, water supply and waste water collection. They have a huge impact on security and public order. The authorities, mayors, city presidents and seniors are the heads of crisis response teams in their local authorities, thus ensuring the safety of citizens during all life or health threats. During the pandemic of Coronavirus in Poland, local governments took on a huge amount of responsibilities that result from their tasks, but also those that should be carried out by government and public administration at this difficult time, and do not perform them for various reasons. Taking these measures requires a great deal of financial effort, which in the already difficult financial situation of local governments has caused huge problems with the tight budgets. This also requires efficient, rapid and effective organisational action. The need for local authorities to apply the Law of 29 January 2004 - Public Procurement Law is a major and frequent obstacle to this effective action. This extends in a way that is often dangerous to purchase the services, equipment and equipment necessary immediately for countering COVID-19. In particular, individual security measures such as masks, disinfectants, protective clothing, cavities, tests, etc., as well as necessary equipment for hospitals, other medical facilities, public institutions which must function efficiently and perform their tasks under pandemic conditions. Therefore, as a Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition proposes a bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis caused by them, printing No. 686, which provides for the possibility of contracting services or supplies necessary to counter COVID-19 without the application of the Act - Public Procurement Law. Of course, this right will benefit local government units on condition that there is a high likelihood of rapid and uncontrolled spread of the disease or that public health needs to be protected. In order to ensure the transparency and transparency of this process, which is very important, we propose that the contracting authority should, within 14 days of the award of the contract, enter in the Public Information Bulletin the information on the award of the contract on its entity's website, giving the name of the company or the name of the entity with which they entered into the contract for the execution of the contract. The entry into force of this law will certainly have positive social consequences, enable local governments to react quickly and act in situations of life or health threat. Nor will the entry into force of this law have any implications for the state budget. I ask the High House to accept this important project along with the whole package that is being presented today. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u10	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the joint discussion on these items, it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the Circle. I'm opening a discussion. First on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, Mr Bolesław Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the draft law, and in principle a package of draft laws, to amend certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19, i.e. the proposal in print No 683, and briefly refer to the package of laws notified by the opposition clubs. So I would like to refer to the Left Club's proposal in print 684, which is to regulate the obligation to wear masks, trimmings or other personal protective equipment. I would also like to refer to the proposal of the Polish Coalition in print No 685, which concerns additional financial resources for gratification for workers working in direct contact with patients or infected in the situation of COVID-19, and to printing No 686, i.e. the proposal of the Civil Coalition, which concerns the Public Procurement Law for local authorities. The most important issue of this law, which I wholeheartedly support, is a certain legal order and, at the same time, a slogan which today, in a situation of some surprise, Mr President, no one in the world has predicted that the second wave of epidemics will have one, not another dimension... That's the point. so-called. A good Samaritan, a good Samaritan clause. She serves to ensure that all possible health care professionals who want to be and who will be involved in the process of prevention, testing, as well as the treatment of patients infected with the SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, release from the obligation to be responsible for innocent errors. Such clauses shall be applied. Medical error is the essence of every doctor's work, it happens on many different fronts, it is a mistake and personal, and healing, but it is also an organizational error, many such errors we know. We would like to see that the relevant articles of the Penal Code - Art. 155, Art. 156 § 2, Article 157 § 3 and Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the We are also talking about what is in the proposal of the Polish Coalition to increase gratification for those workers who are and will be employed in the fight against the koravirus, and we propose to increase this salary by 200% of the basic salary. Of course, there are appropriate simulations on this, because each law requires a description of the financial consequences of regulation. We assumed that every 1% The increase in human, professional human forces involved in the fight against the pandemic will cost the state budget an additional amount of PLN 9 and 10 million per month. And if it's 2%, 3%, 4%, these estimates are going to increase. For today we are unable to predict, I think, no one in this room is able to predict how many employees will be involved in the fight against the coronavirus. We also want - it was already in previous regulations - that if someone gets infected or needs quarantine in his case, the allowance for this incapacity for work would be 100% , and not, so far, 80% because, as you know, ZUS pays 80% for the first month of incapacity for work basic salary. We would like to define in very, very detail all these cases, in principle, which will concern referrals to work. We know there's a huge problem with that. And, ladies and gentlemen, it's not like everyone who gets assigned to work is about to show up. There are certain conditions to be fulfilled. The first issue is absolutely cooperation with the medical centre, i.e. those who have a full dossier of the health care worker, the doctor, and this cooperation must also (...) be qualified. We have exempted from this obligation - the obligation to work in case of referral - the doctors of seniors, those who have over 65 years of age in the case of men and 60 years of age in the case of women. But it's obviously non-binding. These doctors can also work, not as volunteers, but as full-paid members of therapeutic teams. We also wanted to invite - this is already regulated in laws - specialist doctors from countries outside the European Union. We have that in our laws. Here, for the pandemic period, we applied specific rules, of course under the same conditions as in the law, on which we were supposedly looking at 2, 3 months ago. Doctors from outside the European Union can already work with us. We also said that it is very important that we solve the problem of those doctors who do not have specializations, but have specific medical knowledge, perhaps still unestablished or untargeted with infectious diseases. The point is that they can also work and that they can also be employed. We also wanted to prepare for the black script, direct our invitation to medical students or students of other directions, for example. rescue, nurses, doctors, so that, if possible, they can support the system in these difficult conditions. This whole package is addressed to health professionals. Other regulations are more about matters related to the organisational part. First of all, a support team for the State Medical Rescue will be set up. It's very important. Today we know that there are ambulances lined up outside one hospital, and there are none before the other. Thus, this system must be supervised and coordinated from the level of voivodships. All data that flows from hospital emergency rooms and hospital emergency services should be sent to the coordinator and this coordinator on the basis of the data that he will collect from a given voivodship will try to place the patient in a specific hospital. It's not like someone has to wait in the ambulance for five hours. to a party, because you can just transport it to another place. We also expect different types of solutions to be used in exceptional situations. If the hospital director refuses such a party, even though it is happening, he may be suspended. And it's nothing new either, because this solution is in the laws, except he doesn't lose his financial rights... This may be applied not more than 1 month after the outbreak has expired. We anticipate this possibility. The issue of wearing masks will also be regulated, as the Left emphasized. It is regulated, only that in the Polish legal order, if something is not in the Constitution, it also does not include the ordinary citizen in a very detailed sense. There were various types of discussions of lawyers, whether the obligation to wear a mask imposed by the Council of Ministers regulation is binding or not. This clearly crosses this issue, and is probably also consummated here by the left-wing bill to include the order to wear these masks in the bill, including the pennalization penalty, which can be - and here is also a little bit of novelty - from 500 PLN, as it was, to 1,000 PLN. Zloty, which means we're increasing this punishment. We would also like to talk about issues related to health professionals. This is about uniformed services: police officers, military officers, municipal guards - we want them to have the right powers - firefighters, border guards and many uniformed institutions that can support this system properly, as well as, of course, certain financial matters. The last thing I wanted to bring up was public procurement. Public procurement and derogations from public procurement related to investment, construction, repair, etc. were regulated in previous laws, only that the laws lost their legal force, because they acted for a certain period of time, we restore... We are probably going to lean in on local government issues, too, because they really are. maybe not so much the owners of independent public health establishments as the bodies that create them and have great opportunities for support, especially investment or hardware. Finally, I am, of course, happy with one fact - this is not where these laws sounded - that at the premiere there was finally a team consisting of experts: epidemiologists, virusologists, who will try to develop one information line. Today, at a time of universal access to information, we have a huge gap in proceedings or in the absence of proceedings, whether the solutions are right or wrong. At the head of this team - and that's my personal business. [[♪ The bell ♪]] - you will become Professor Horban - a long-standing national consultant in the field of viral epidemiology, a man of great knowledge and, most importantly, full of humility, and we also need this humility. Please proceed immediately to further work on the legislative package. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u12	Thank you very much, sir. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition by Mr Cezary Tomczyk. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think we should all take advantage of this experience, because we see that the rules on the knee are just wrong. Last-minute message: with regard to Friday's regulations, it is clear from its quickly amended provisions that an online conference must not be organised in the red zones. Then I inform your marshal that the High Sejm is in the red zone and the people who are watching our deliberations today are doing so illegally. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Those are the rules you're making. This is the Friday regulation. This is again the recipe that was written on the knee. I want you to talk about the bill. Now, back to the issue of the bill, I would like to say that thanks to the fact that we had an additional 24 hours to work on the bill, we prepared about. 40 amendments. We found obvious errors, among others. that error, which will enable young doctors to be called upon to work in infectious wards the day after the birth of the child. We also found a baseless distinction between doctors and better and worse. Turns out that bill eliminated 70%. Medics when it comes to their salary allowances. That bill didn't take care of the medical staff either. People who work in hospitals on infectious wards who operate equipment, in this bill, have just been ignored. I understand why PiS didn't want us to read this bill. That is why: so that the public does not find out how many mistakes are in this bill and how many people in this law have simply been omitted. With this bill, you also want to punish hospital directors, even though the government failed. The opposition failed. There's gonna be our amendment here, too. You want to be run by Jack Sasin-style party nominators instead of hospital directors. It won't be our agreement, absolutely not. [[Applause]] We are also making an amendment on the possibility of carrying out rapid tests on wereps performing medical professions, for people who are on the front line against COVID. After all, this is the necessity that the Left, the Polish People's Party, which we have been talking about from the very beginning, when we pointed out that such rapid tests are very necessary. I refer to the project of the Left, the Polish People's Party, the Civic Coalition: these are thought-out projects that do not even need to be studied for too long. These are projects that should have been put in place a long time ago, because they have been in the High House for a long time. [[Applause]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Science comes from this simple: it is worth working on the law for more than a few hours. This is your tenth bill on the COVID case. In this bill, you change the rules that you changed just a little while ago. 2 and 3 months ago e.g. You introduced the responsibility of doctors, you wanted to punish them for mistakes they didn't commit on purpose. You're leaving today. But you voted for it. You're the ones who've made these changes. Then why make another bill on your knees how can you work on it calmly? It's not the number of laws that matter, it's the quality of them. And the number of corrections is important. And today on behalf of, I think, many of us, but also on behalf of Poles we have a clear appeal to you. Just get to work and make a bill so you don't have to change them all the time. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! The truth is that this government simply takes full responsibility for the situation in Poland. I do not know if Minister Kraska, Deputy Minister of Health, is with us, one of your chief COVID specialists. Minister Kraska 6 weeks ago: The second wave of Coronavirus will be milder. We could exceed a thousand infections a day. For an hour. That's right, we've exceeded a thousand infections a day, but I think it's for an hour. And this is the situation today, these are your experts, this is the inability that we're colliding with now. If anyone is talking about hospitals in stadiums today, this is what they think. Minister Dworczyk yesterday: The second wave of corrhoid is much larger. Well, it's much bigger, actually, than your experts said, and that's why we're not prepared as a country. Third quote, Prime Minister Morawiecki: We have fought this disease. We are leaders in Europe. We're leaders in Europe, that's true. I'm just wondering what the Prime Minister was doing yesterday at a conference against ventilators, because I think he was just doing propaganda there. Where was the Prime Minister in six months when those ventilators were needed? I wish I knew. I think the public in Poland would like to know that today. The new law that we are talking about today - this is the deluded idea that at a time of crisis it is enough to write on paper that it will be okay. That's where the records are that the hospital has to assume that the ambulance has to take it. But so far on paper everything was right, because there were enough beds, enough ventilators, and at the very end it turned out that it was not so, that ambulances bounced from hospitals because you wasted six months. Someone made it clear yesterday that instead of fighting for beds, you were fighting for stools. [[Applause]] And that's the truth about the last six months. Self-government. Today, local governments are taking on a burden. The question to the applicant, Mr Protas: how great is the involvement of local governments that the government relieves today? And I ask, will there be any improvement from this bill, or will there be more vaccines, more tests? There are no answers to these questions, there are no solutions. Therefore, I would also like to ask. You're saying you're gonna get the doctors from abroad, the doctors that Mrs Hrynkiewicz from that speaker said, "Let's go." These are the doctors you're trying to get from abroad? Those doctors are already there. You didn't allow a raise, you didn't want to take care of doctors. They left today. Today you want to bring them in, today you wake up? [[Applause]] A question for Prime Minister Morawiecki. He's not here today, but I hope he's listening to us, even though it's illegal. What do you say today to the 3721 families who died, e.g. Mr. Wojciech's family from Toruń, who died in the hospital at the age of 70 because of the coronavirus, didn't find a free ventilator for him? Or Mr. Tadeusz's family from Mirostowice? 68 years, he was treated for a week for a cold. Turns out he had a COVID, missed a ventilator, and died. And finally, the story that hit each one of us very hard: Bartek, 17, felt bad, fell into a coma, doctors suspected coronavirus, so one hospital didn't take him, sent him back to another, where he waited 10 hours for the party. He didn't have a coronavirus, he had an intracranial abscess. He died two days after the surgery. And we don't want to hear false assurances from you today. We do not want to hear those texts of Minister Szumowski, who said that we are prepared for any variant and he can now go on vacation. Today we really want one thing from you: we want you to finally tell Poles the truth. We want Poles to be able to hear the truth about this disease and about the epidemic, what is the state of the epidemic, what is going to happen in the coming weeks. You can't hide it anymore... And that everything is under control, new stadiums, halls, hospitals are being built. You've been lying for six months, and we want to know what the official prognosis is, how many people can be sick, how many people can die, how many people can run out of hospital seats, how many ventilators will be missing. These are questions you must answer to the public. What's the strategy for fighting COVID? How many diseases can there be in the next few weeks? You are the only government in Europe that hides this data from its citizens. We don't know that, we don't know how the virus's going to develop, because you don't tell anyone about it, even though you have every possible service and you can use it. We don't know what you're gonna do with schools, we don't know what you're gonna do with restrictions. Just tell the truth, because we're not on TVP Info. It's not enough to powder reality. We need reliable information for everyone. And the last sentence. For the last five years, you've been very capable of gaining power for yourselves. You guys didn't do so well. You started here, in Parliament, then there were tribunals, courts, companies, media. You've exchanged tens of thousands of great officials for party nominates. You hired your sons, your daughters, your uncles, your neighbors, you hired them all. And you have all the power you've dreamed of - all the power. Today I ask the public Prime Minister Morawiecki: What did you do with this power when you used it? For this one moment. You got it all. Poles today are counting on you to use this power for a good purpose. How did you use it in the last six months? I absolutely don't see the effects of this use. All I can see is that you've just wasted time, the time of all of us, the time of millions of Poles who are waiting for solid solutions today. The country you've created is just sick, it's the PiS. As in the lens today you can see all possible problems. And we are very clear that we are going to heal this country, both through the prism of the amendments that we are going to make and through actions in the coming months. This country must be healthy, because this is our country. And every Pole, and every Polish must know that he can count on his government. And last sentence, Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind. Prime Minister Morawiecki spoke yesterday with an appeal to the Senate, [[♪ The bell ♪]] I want this bill to be processed quickly. If we conduct this bill well in the Seym, if the amendments of the Civic Coalition, the PSL, are accepted, then it will not be necessary to work on this bill in the Senate. So I appeal to the majority of the parliament: let us work on this law, accept good amendments this one, only time, because they are simply needed, and let us close this case as soon as possible, so that this law is simply good, not just any. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u14	I have to say, you're the reason we delayed our work by one day. And for ten minutes, you had nothing to say. 30 seconds. It's just political chatter. [[Applause]] Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the club of the Left. This is Mr Sobolewski... You... our words like Kaczyński's president. The marshal falls asleep, doesn't listen. It was so boring that you could actually sleep. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u15	Are you done with the accusations? Great. High Izbo! Since September, the Ministry of Health has announced three more versions of the strategy for the autumn epidemic wave. Well, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, the autumn strategy is not announced in the autumn, but in the early summer. Strategy is not just a plan for a month or two, but all the scenarios, the good ones and the bad ones. Finally, the strategy does not change every two weeks, nor is four laws passed on to Members 17 hours before their collective proceedings in the Sejm. These projects should be consulted with the medical community and experts, and the opposition should have time to prepare and consult the amendments properly. We really see your difficulties and we want to help you. This concerns all of us, all of our citizens. One of the key issues since the start of the pandemic, i.e., slightly counting for the last six months, is to control the number of infections and eradicate outbreaks. The health department has already warned in the spring that you can't work. She's picking up thousands of calls right now. People complained they couldn't reach the health center for days. You haven't done anything about it in six months. You're proposing to hire more deputies for the chief health inspector, mustard after dinner. The left will not object to this solution, but the health department needs mainly hands to work today, people to answer phones, to provide information, to track the contacts of infected people, and not just a few additional directors. That is why, a week ago, at a meeting with the government among many other proposals, we proposed commitment to these tasks of private companies. We have dynamic call center companies with modern equipment, qualified personnel. All your tools are in your hands. There is no need for additional resources, there is no need for much more time. All your tools are in your hands. What are you waiting for? Just do it. According to our estimates, it'll give us 5 to 20,000. new consultative positions that can support us in the fight to reduce disease. We have made a bill here, which I finally give the legal basis for ordering all citizens to wear masks. It will give the authorities of the State the necessary powers, which were lacking in previous anti-crisis shields, but will also allow the defence of employees of service companies or shops, who will finally be able to refuse to operate customers who do not wear masks. We count on its support by the ruling coalition and the opposition. For the past six months, when you joyfully introduced and eliminated single-name hospitals, you gave and took allowances for work in connection with COVID, and the Prime Minister announced the end of the pandemic, the number of infections steadily increased, then increased rapidly, and today it is rising at an alarming rate. Today, when the medical care system has actually broken down, and hospitals filled with and deprived of doctors send patients back, you are just starting to organize additional hands for work. And what I'm trying to say again is mustard after dinner. The left, of course, is in favour of some of the solutions we will find in the bill we are discussing here today, in favour of all medical care workers being granted 100% for the quarantine period. salaries, but they must cover all employees, regardless of the type of contract, including those working on the contract or employed by external companies, as well as chamber workers and laboratories. And we'll make the right amendment. We will also make an amendment that will give similar powers - 100% salaries during quarantine - all workers, because such support to families and workers is simply due today. We are in favour of raising the amounts for referral to work in relation to the pandemic to 200%, but these allowances should also benefit those health workers who are already fighting the pandemic, not only those who will be assigned to this fight. And that's where we're gonna make the right amendment. We are in favour of the additions for work in connection with the pandemic, which in print no. 685 proposes PSL. I'm going to repeat what we've been talking about for a long time that we're also in favour of releasing doctors from prison for medical errors. Bugs are not made only by those who do nothing, although following the example of the government, you can see that you can do little and still make mistakes. We're gonna call for a break from the punishment of a ruthless prison for medical errors. Today is the day when we have to undo the art change. 37a Penal Code, because it's time to stop punishing doctors, it's time to stop blaming them for everything, and you have to start supporting them. And we will also make an amendment today. The last 6 months have been the time to regulate the construction of field hospitals, the arrangements for doctors' work, the training of staff and the mobilisation of additional forces to work. There was time to consult the medical community, there was time to train and mobilise students and representatives of other medical and medical professions. You are proposing these solutions only today - mustard after dinner. The rules on the appointment of doctors are underdeveloped and contradictory internally. They allow parents to be called to their youngest children and even mothers who are nursing. They do not take into account the option in which the doctor appointed to work is the only guardian of the senior. The Left will not vote in favour of such solutions and will also make appropriate amendments. You're saying that we're going through the middle, that there are still beds and ventilators available, although hospitals clearly say otherwise and physically have no place to take patients. You want to call the co-ordinators, mustard after dinner. The time for coordination was six months ago, not now. Now there's no time to run away from responsibility... I'm afraid so. ...and throwing decisions at hospitals and paramedics. You left them to yourself. Today, you're introducing a super-coordinator medical rescue station that will be pushing patients wherever you can with your knee. The coordinator won't conjure up hospitals, create respirators out of the air, not conjure up new doctors and nurses. Better. And for refusing to follow orders, you threaten the hospital with the director's dismissal, which will only cause even greater chaos under the epidemic and the overload caused by it. The Left will not support this solution and will table an amendment that will delete it. On the other hand, we are in favour of the right of patients to equal treatment. Better late than never. I hope that the pain of the Black, Szumowski and Kaczynski Members will never be greater than the pain of ordinary citizens. Substantively please, Madame, not ad personam.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u16	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have already developed mechanisms, procedures, hospitals, a single name, a ready network of laboratories, genetic tests, rapid tests for autumn time to diagnose possible infections - it is all prepared. I have prepared recommendations for autumn, which are very simple, consistent, possible implementation. And these are very good recommendations. I've prepared all the plans for autumn. I think my successor will implement them directly. I think Mr Szumowski is watching us. Well, Mr Niedzielski seems to have lost the key to the desk in which you left all these recommendations and simply did not implement it. Yesterday on public television we read: the opposition blocks the fight against the pandemic, the opposition plays with the life and health of Poles. I will not comment on this nonsense, but I must comment on the words of the Minister of Health, who, as part of the party message, claimed in all the media that his yesterday's absence here in the High House... The point is, over this bill on your knee... The point is, it was the opposition's fault. Well, Minister, no. Well, if you quote a classic, it doesn't go that way. We gave you time to take note of the comments on the bill presented by the General Medical Council, the General Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics, the National Chamber of Laboratory Diagnostics. And I have a proposition for you, Minister of Health. Today, here in the High House, you will present your position on these important comments that have been made by these actors. Health professionals and patients accuse the Ministry's project of lowering standards and inefficiencies. But what they don't have is something you can't throw there. It is not possible to order the local authorities of the medical profession to provide a list of persons who may be targeted at the work of combating the epidemic during the day. Perhaps the Minister does not know this yet or has not read this good Samaritan law, as he describes it, but the authorities of the medical professions only collect personal and sensitive data that are defined by the relevant laws. Mr. Marshal Terlecki! I wanted to ask you: Is one day of delay in the Seym so extremely slowing down work? The point is, you spilled your frustration yesterday on the opposition. The bill says the key role of health inspection in the fight against the epidemic. I'm really scared of it. I am afraid of this because, as part of this key role of inspection, we are to increase by two persons the leadership of the Chief Sanitary Inspector. And let me remind you that when the epidemic broke out, the only diagnosis of the chief health inspector was ice in my panties. I will also remind you that a month ago, he informed us that all of this is flattened. When the Poles had already fought the epidemic, the health centre fought for how to eliminate the structure that was the health centre, internal services, police and prison services. Today, health care workers are overtired. [[♪ The bell ♪]] physically and mentally. And they ask: Will the Prime Minister strengthen this service with workers who are losing their jobs in government administration? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u18	Mr Andrzej Grzyb, a club of the Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u19	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First, a good word to all those who are fighting the epidemic, to all health professionals, doctors, nurses, paramedics. We know how they work. These four parliamentary projects - because not only this one, with a good Samaritan, was submitted to the High House - are the subject of today's proceedings. Including the coalition club Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 submitted a project about the so-called. The hero's bonus to pay health care workers who work for those who need help. These projects are important, and I agree with the Minister of Health here, but I cannot agree with his assessment that politics has won with health. I understand that the Minister is attached to his project because, in fact, this parliamentary project is a government project, and he says that these projects are not controversial. Well, that day yesterday allowed us to get acquainted with the position of the Chief Medical Chamber, which is concerned and disappointed with the project. I quote: we expected support, and in the regulations we find a reflection of the hostile statements of politicians. There is also a 200% question to be challenged. remuneration only for doctors seconded. It is the issue of seconded doctors who have children under their care that is also a matter of concern. The association of doctors, so to speak, very much questions the short time allowed to present both by the rectors of the university and by the medical chambers of those who are to be posted. Self-government. The indication of a four-department district hospital as the place where the fight against COVID is to be conducted, where these patients are to be treated, is de facto the extinction of almost all of its departments. Often it is a question, I would say, socially important, because it is there. a long-term care unit. We have to leave this unit because where can we transport these people? This also applies to children's wards. There are many children there today because we have a period of seasonal illness. The question of dismissing the Director at the request of the Minister of Health. I think... Who will bear the consequences when it comes to the possible administration of the hospital by the appointed proxy? How can the local government manage a hospital that will suffer possible financial losses later? Asked about the bill and among others. Dr. Sosnierz says it's a good thing they're being created, but I have the impression that it's some kind of show, not a solution to the problem. The bill is in his opinion prepared from day to day, and there was so much time. He also says that government decisions related to the epidemic have greatly shaken public confidence. This is the representative of the United Right. I want to raise the issue of financial incentives for medical staff. It cannot be that only a group of doctors seconded will be particularly grateful, and those who have worked so far in the fight against the epidemic and the treatment of patients with COVID will be deprived of it. At least it doesn't come literally from that provision. After all, it was also analysed by representatives of the Chief Medical Chamber and trade unions. We as the Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 offer a bonus for all, so-called. It's a hero's bonus. Widening the hospital base - very right. It's also about setting up field hospitals. You have to have reserves, only you could have done it before. On the other hand, we pay attention to the potential of private health services, in particular hospitals. We have over 400 hospitals, 32,000. Beds. After all, these hospitals can be incorporated into the system. They are probably not suitable for the treatment of patients with COVID-19 because of their size, but they can perform multi-specialized treatments that public health services are unable to perform due to the epidemic. They're prepared for this. This may increase the availability of medical services, but funding from the National Health Fund needs to be included. It's about orthopedics or ophthalmology. Sanatorium base. That's what my friend's gonna talk about. She can be used, too. As a coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 we bring several postulates concerning the law. We'll make the right adjustments. We want private health services to be involved in the fight against the epidemic. We want to have a dialogue with entrepreneurs, operators of economic life. Work on the Social Dialogue Council needs to be resumed. After all, this is an extremely important issue. It is about acceptance for all, often difficult moves. Bonus for the hero, voluntary ZUS and, above all, a regionalised approach to combating epidemics. As regards the regionalised approach to combating epidemics, we believe, for example, that school heads together with local governments should have the right to decide whether to close the school. It increases their responsibility. So far, responsibility has been transferred to health inspection services. Mr. Marshal! Thank you for your attention. You continue with Mr Jarosław Rzep. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u20	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My previous speaker has already signalled a problem from which I will start. Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about ideas for setting up field hospitals, and we're giving you a simple solution. Many voivodship local governments have in their area of functioning a spa, which has an appropriate base in which people work: doctors, nurses. The Member is laughing, he is from Kołobrzeg, but I think, Mr Kołobrzeg, that this is not proper behaviour. ...by the mask. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the proposals, although in many cases it seems to me that it is a pity that the rulers did not listen to them when there was time. When was the hero's bonus proposed? Then, when these people, who have been standing on the front line for months and taking care of our health, started this fight. Today, the proposals you're making... You're talking about money for those people who'll appoint a voivod. These people often can't... they don't have the right knowledge, and they're gonna make twice as much money as those who're gonna prepare them for work. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Today you have to pay those people who have been doing this for months. You took care of this draft law on the Police, Border Guard, SOP. It's a good thing you didn't forget the doctors, but where are those people who've been doing this since the beginning? Today they are not included in this project. They have bigger... They're gone, ladies and gentlemen. I'll plead for them. However, there is a very dangerous record, ladies and gentlemen - a muzzle on hospital directors. If they don't accept in any way... You either cancel them and put in your attorney, or you punish them financially, you take away some of the money they're getting. How's that? Who of the hospital directors will not be afraid of this oppression? Ladies and gentlemen! Who will answer for the mistakes of your attorneys? Agents who don't know these units. It is about millions of zlotys, hundreds and even thousands of people working in these workplaces. In addition, you even repeal the social councils of these hospitals. They won't have anything to say. It's in the provisions of your bill. Do they have anything to say? That's why I'm asking you to take it back. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the article is concerned. 37a, it's time to put an end to this very shameful article. I hope you will accept these amendments. You've been saying for a few days: let's work together. We're the ones who say, "We're checking." Today, at the Committee on Health, we will make a number of amendments and we want to do what we are talking about together. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] They are substantive, Madame. I hope you'll hear this. You will hear, above all, on behalf of the people who are watching today, who say that it is not just a matter of asking for a letter from them within 7 days. If anyone had read the law that is currently in force, they would have known that the data you require from them... They don't keep records like that. No driving, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that those people who prepared this project signed under this bill are very ashamed today. Ladies and gentlemen! We, as a club of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, declare that we want to cooperate, but at today's meeting of the Health Committee we will say: I am checking big. This will be checked for your intentions and I will check for those projects that we have prepared as an opposition, because when it comes to public procurement, protection or a hero's bonus, it was a few months ago. One of my previous speakers said: Prime Minister, you must think ahead. Forward, far away. Unfortunately, in many cases I am aware that these actions are only one step ahead of us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u22	Thank you very much. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. It's a pleasure. I'm glad to meet you. [[Applause]] I invite Mr Dobromir Sosnierz from the Wheel of the Posel Confederation. Mr President, the speaker is yours. I'm not giving it to you. I'm inviting you. It's not... And I'm asking you not to comment, because I'm about to call Marshal Witek and you're gonna be intimidated. [[Joy in the Chamber]] You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u23	We already know we're in a black hole... worse than that, apparently, we're starting to get a little bit more comfortable in it. This is another COVID special that proves that the government, instead of getting out of this hole quickly, sets up furniture in it slowly. All these regulations show that the epidemic is planned by the government for longer, and that is why in this ad hoc legislative mess we need to replace some triticles with thicker ones now, it has to be a little bit more form. For example, the project announces the abolition of doctors' responsibility during the outbreak, and we have only just tightened this responsibility in one of the famous shields. Are we out on our own feet again? Does it ever occur to you now that it's not a good idea that you've just put a stick in your mouth to settle the private accounts of Minister Ziobra during the outbreak? And now, instead of pulling out of this unnecessary recipe, you're producing another one that's gonna temporarily remove its effects, with high signs of preoccupation in the other direction. That's how you litter the law with other laws and build this tritic republic. Through such actions, the whole pandemic is growing in various groups of interests that are interested in keeping it going on as long as possible. You put faulty mechanisms into the system, which encourage you to draw statistics on the production of various false cases and therefore, e.g. Teenage parents with a cut face are forced to sign a statement that they suspect COVID from him. In this law, further professional groups gain such privileges that they will only be able to benefit from during the epidemic. I want you to understand that in this situation, you're pushing people out of conflict of interest. The most honest people, pushed into such a flawed bureaucratic machine, will act badly. You're already in your ministries and offices surrounded by people interested in chasing this bunny as long as you can, not catching him. And you get the feedback you're actually asking for. You're pumping the monster instead of fighting it. You're starting to live in a bubble that you're pumping around yourself. The government boasts that it has spent more than PLN 200 billion on saving the economy, but if it had not closed the economy if it had given this money, for example. for ventilators, we'd have up to 1 million of them, depending on who would buy from whom, of course, but let's say. For money spent on millions of unreliable tests, we could, I don't know, build a few hospitals or hire staff. We treat many other infectious diseases without mass testing, and that's quite effective, so why do you do it. I have to save time for the next speaker. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u24	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michael Urbaniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u25	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure of continuing this speech. Well, I hope that the House has given sufficient thought to the issue of these new multisets that are being prepared. I will refer mainly to the Law and Justice - you are proposing unthinkable solutions, and if there is anything that makes sense, it is far too late and, of course, as part of the multiplicity action once again. You have an interesting provision on the pharmaceutical law. For example, you extend your prescription by 150 days. Of course, the idea is right, but I am not surprised that you are proposing such a provision, because you have neglected drug safety, the production of medicines in Poland over the last years. The drugs are mostly taken from Asia. Why didn't you support the production of drugs and active substances in Poland? Finally, we have a situation where health care workers or uniform workers get 100%. sickness benefits in a situation where these countries will work with COVID, will be infected or quarantined. It's a shame it wasn't until now, not a few months ago, as we talked about a long time ago. I guess that's about all the benefits of this project. You're talking about personal protective equipment, but you don't increase the amount of it for doctors. You don't have accommodations for doctors in a situation where someone would be infected, and they wouldn't want to put their family at risk. You're talking about a record of a good Samaritan. The problem is that by extending this record, you have introduced legal chaos, and it would be much better to only extend such a provision e.g. for students who go to work at the COVID-z. Ladies and gentlemen! In the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentists, you want to re-enter the register of admission of foreigners to the profession of Doctors without no formalization of diploma. Once again, you're trying to enter a record through the back door that makes it clear that you're not. [[♪ The bell ♪]] prepared for COVID-19 or for any other disease. Because if today we download, for example, any doctors or doctors or nurses from the East, what guarantee do we have that these diplomas weren't bought at the market? None. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u26	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. Let me remind you that these questions are 30 in total. Every club knows how many questions they can ask. I'm setting 1 minute for questioning. One and a half minutes, Marshal. 1.5. And I cordially invite Mrs Teresa Wargocka from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. Marshal, maybe one and a half minutes, please. Well, that's what we agreed at the senior convention, so I'd rather not change that. But you're not going to turn off the microphone? You know that people love me for doing this. We can do this. There you go, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On yesterday's opposition Members in the nationwide media, with a general determination to discredit the submission from print No. 683, gave information on the antennas really about the high ratings that there are in this bill records that will cause, I quote, that the woman who gives birth to the child - the doctor, the nurse - after 2 days can be addressed to work. It's really a bastard, what you're doing, it's hitting the basic... We didn't write it down. ...the feelings of Poles related to the relationship of the mother to the child. I would ask that the applicant's representative explain to the High House what the provisions of the Article are. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Four, and he denigrated that monstrous... But there's a record there, my fellow Member. ...manipulation and lying. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. Gentlemen, let's get to work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u28	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Monica Wieliczhowska from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u29	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thanks to the fact that Kaczyński, Morawiecki, Ziobro, Gowin and 24 other Members of the United Right did not come to work yesterday, we had time for good legislation. It's important because [[Applause]] any draft law should be part of a clear and coherent government strategy for the fight against pandemics, a strategy that should be thought through, consistent, communicated and implemented. And it must be well prepared, but, although it must, it is not, because all the projects you write, ladies and gentlemen, on your knees, you push the express in the Seym without public consultation. That's not how you create a good law, that's how you don't create a safe law, that's how you create a bubble. The chaos in health care is growing, the fear of citizens deepens every day and they will all touch us, all of us, the severe consequences. That is why it is so important to stop proceding (the bell) bad laws, bad laws, because the most important thing is the health, life and safety of citizens. I very much regret that today there is no Minister Niedzielski in the Chamber, who has not found the time for today's debate, but found time yesterday to write nonsense on social media, although he should have thanked us, the opposition... For what? ...for wanting to make a good law. Because let us not be charmed, this is a government law, which is obviously pushed by a parliamentary scheme, in order to avoid public consultation and good procession, as I said at the outset. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u30	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We will be associating with Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, who will ask questions remotely. Welcome, madam. You're welcome. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u31	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! How does the government intend to deal with treatment of patients with other than COVID diseases? The conversion of hospital sites and the construction of field hospitals will, after all, absorb resources. We're already behind with some of the procedures that have been moved, and patients who have been transplanted report problems with access to health care, diagnosis of breast cancer or cervical cancer are lying down. This bill doesn't answer these pressing problems, so I'm asking the government to answer the question of how you're going to deal with it. Nor is there a clear solution in this law to the issue of wages for people who work to combat the epidemic, working under civil law agreements. Will the additional remuneration in these cases be counted against the real income of those persons? Why doesn't the raise include health care workers who work more than their own? Does the government really feel that they do not deserve the treatment that health workers deserve?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u32	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u33	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the changes in the medical emergency system. Namely, you try to strengthen the role of regional coordinator, you appoint, create a new function of national coordinator. Do you need a new office to find a single bed in our country? After all, every hospital has a system where you can see whether the beds are free or occupied. What's the problem with the Center for Health Protection Information Systems coordinating this and that this system should be used to find free beds? Do you need a new office? What are you trying to hide by trying, by hand, to control the free beds? Second thing. After all, we all use the Internet. When I buy a product, a person on the other side of the country knows that this product is not there. In the health system, however, you must appoint a new office. This is abstraction. Then the teleports. When are you gonna end up with this system where people bounce off a doctor? After all, the teleport should be available to a man who continues his treatment. Anyone with a new condition should have access to a doctor. Get your telecontrols into the I.R.S. or other offices so they don't involve entrepreneurs, but the patient should have access to a doctor about his health. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] We agree.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u34	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Arthur Dziambor from the Wheel of the Polish Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u35	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I've got two things to do. The first thing is masks. This is what we're going to be doing today, and probably the Left Coalition with the Platform and the PiS will introduce a ban, or actually a warrant for wearing masks. Here's the data from yesterday's statement: 197.5 thousands. people instructed, 55,3 thousand. Penalty fines, those 500-gold, 14,6,000. cases of applications for punishment addressed to the court. If we are now introducing a statutory order to wear masks, we are hereby admitting, or actually admitting, that the previous regulation on the basis of which the mandates were issued was indeed illegal and that all these mandates should be cancelled. My question is: Will they be cancelled? It is so important that from the power it would be a gesture of fairness to all those citizens who simply followed the law (the bell) who were forced to wear masks, by the police, under threat of punishment, and this punishment was illegal. She won't be legal until today. Thank you very much. We wear masks for the safety of others, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u36	Thank you very much. I invite you, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u37	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I wanted to ask the government one thing: are you ready to accept reasonable amendments and to make this project, not the worst and necessary of course, correct? If this project enters into force without amendments, it may turn out that an entrepreneur, for example. He didn't wear a mask, he's gonna be deprived of the money from the shield, and all his employees are gonna get hurt. Such absurdity it contains. Or, in front of your windows, a private health care provider will build a COVID sanatorium without complying with construction regulations, contrary to the provisions of the local plan, because this provision, which previously caused many such pathological situations, is now opening up such a path to private operators. Or how do you intend to secure all those who are fighting this epidemic and not just selected professional groups? [[♪ The bell ♪]] On behalf of Poland 2050 I will make amendments and please accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u38	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Thomas Latos from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I must say that I have listened to this debate, and I must say frankly that again, once again, I was hoping that there was another way that it could be done without malice, without telling the truth. Ladies and gentlemen, we really need to work together on this. Some of these malicious, unnecessary voices that have been cast do not bring anything positive, especially since you also have good solutions in your projects, which are also in the draft Law and Justice, so let's work together. And I wanted to ask the Minister about the untruths that were repeated yesterday in the media that were spoken from this platform. It's worth fixing. That is also what Mrs Wargock called for. It is also worth saying at least two sentences about increasing the financing of workers, about [[♪ The bell ♪]] a good samaritan clause and other good solutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u40	Thank you very much. Now we will be curious to hear the question asked by Mrs Barbara Nowacka from the Parliamentary Club by the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! I'm gonna try to meet up with, albeit actually empty government benches and a few full-time yellers on the side of the PiS show respect for the subject... You're the screamer. ...a discussion so serious that all of Poland was waiting for us to start working on health issues. And the state first prepares a bubble, and then you don't even want to come and discuss it. You call yourselves Law and Justice. So where's the right of families to take care of the little kid that's been erased in your bill? Where is justice for doctors who are differentiated in terms of pay? You're forgetting medical paramedics, salons, all those who work in health care. Each of them will be in contact with COVID, each of them is exposed, they and their families, and you are talking only about those led by the voivode. You're waging war in a medical environment instead of real helping. Salaries [[♪ The bell ♪]] they should go to everyone, evenly and fairly, to all those who are fighting on the front of health. You fell, you failed. Your law and justice proved to be false. Apologize. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u42	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Monica Falej, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ambulances with patients, including those requiring immediate assistance, go from hospital to hospital. Doctors tend to take less and less care of their patients because they spend most of their time on the phone looking for rooms in hospitals. The government sends doctors, nurses work warrants, doing nothing to set up a system that will collect such data and information. Then the doctors, instead of sitting and calling, would take care of treatment, not wasting that time on phones. The bill provides for increases for doctors, and this is a good step, although late for many months, but still good. However, health care systems are not only doctors, but also workers and staff of medical diagnostic laboratories. We're used to the fact that you're dividing people into sorts, but so far, the criteria have been opinions, and now to a worse sort. You've had lab diagnostics and analytics. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Medical analysts. What did they do to you? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u44	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Joanna Borowiak from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u45	Thank you very much. There you go. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! It is sad that even in an epidemic situation, when we should all act together, the opposition cannot give up political warfare. Yesterday you showed that you were unable to act in a situation of increased necessity, in a situation of urgency of taking action and putting sand in modes even when the consequences of your actions hit Poles. You said you didn't know the bill, but it didn't bother you to call it kamaszowa, even though you said you didn't know its contents. Meanwhile, it is a bill of good Samaritan, supporting doctors and strengthening action in the fight against the epidemic. Members of the opposition are manipulating, even now that they have read this law, manipulating, spreading fake news and scaring Poles. I have a question for the Member of the applicant's representative. Mr President, what regulations are included in this bill to support medical practitioners in the fight against the epidemic, and why should it be adopted? [[♪ The bell ♪]] But there are four laws. I have a request for opposition: finally get out of the political sandbox. This is not the time for political fights, it is the time for joint action for the health and safety of Poles. [[Applause]] You've screwed up for eight months. 10,000. Get sick today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u46	Thank you very much, Member. Now the question will be asked by Mr Robert Kropiwnicki from the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we're being accused of being a politician. We care about the health of Poles because you have long forgotten it. They're gonna rock the fall, what you're doing... Look what's going on. Today's the first time there's 10,000. For the first 100,000. We needed 216 days for the second hundred, 100,000. - 17 days, it'll take about a week for the third hundred. That's the scale of the fall. This is the scale of your negligence. You've had eight months to do this, and you've wasted your time fighting for who's gonna be the minister, who's gonna be president of the company, where you're gonna hire your kids. This was more important to you than saving the health and life of Poles. I said, what are you gonna do if you help the health workers, how are you gonna help the paramedics? The health system is falling apart in front of us, and you're happy to say you're going to build new hospitals. Help those of you who are here today, help the paramedics, help the paramedics, because they're really hurting today, and they're on the front line. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This bill is one big piece of shit. We were expecting a great strategy because it was time to prepare it, and you brought a booze that wasn't good for anything. A bunch of rocks at what you brought, it's a big construction structure. What you brought, it's just a rubble. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Well, well, well. What did you bring?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u48	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Wieczorek from the parliamentary club of the Left. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, today we are discussing four draft laws and it will probably end in such a way that in the end this afternoon we will have to deal with one draft law. I hope that the records that are in these other projects prepared by the opposition will also be included in this one project. The truth is that in this project we are talking about the financial resources that will be transferred to those who will be guided by the voivods to work in the fight against the epidemic. However, there is indeed a very serious problem with emergency workers, about the lab workers, about all those who are working today in health care. The question to the projectors is this: Do you have analyses carried out in this regard and do you foresee (the bell) also for other health workers, compensation and increases? Thank you very much. They've been making better money for six months.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u50	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Agnieszka Pomaska from the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u51	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Niedzielski is surprised that some people are looking for an idea to get around the sharpening. Minister, people are trying to figure out how to get around the sharpening, because they just don't trust you anymore, people don't trust this power. Because how are they supposed to trust this power, when Prime Minister Morawiecki says what can't be done in restaurants, and the ban itself breaks? Then when Prime Minister Kaczyński shows up in public without a mask, when he buys respirators from an arms dealer. How are people supposed to trust you, how can we effectively fight a pandemic when people don't have confidence in power? When others were testing on a massive scale in Europe, you were doing propaganda on public television. Back when you had to make plans, you guys were fighting LGBT. When you had to put all your hands on board, you were looking for enemies everywhere, but you weren't looking. [[♪ The bell ♪]] solutions where they should be found. People don't trust you, and that's why today is the way it is. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] That's why you're in opposition because they trust us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u52	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Margaret Tracz from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u53	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating laws that we should have talked about a few months ago, when we saw that in the autumn we would have a second wave of pandemics. An epidemic that, contrary to the word of the rulers, has never really been in reverse and will not be until the vaccine is spread. Your bill is presented by the applicants as a bill on good Samaritan, and it's actually a bill on nothing more than a draft to fight the epidemic. This law gives the voivodships the opportunity to set up a fight against the epidemic of students, PhD students or graduates who have not yet taken the exams, and to appoint people who have not taken a job in the medical profession despite their education. Here are my questions to the applicants: Will there be any specific rules for the collection of persons from this new group, in advance a specific order or preferences? Because now the project doesn't specify it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And another question: Will there be any specific rules for directing people to work in certain localities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u54	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Michael Grammar from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u55	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I am very pleased that you have acknowledged, however, that the virus is dangerous and that it must be feared. My questions concern your philosophy of action, some consequence in this action. You're acting a little bit like the Ministry of Health is the Ministry of COVID. What are your ideas for other patients, oncology patients, cardiological patients? What about the thousands of scheduled surgeries and surgeries cancelled? Why is your new COVID order de facto based on the transfer, and even cannibalization, of resources between one area of health protection and another area? Yesterday, Mrs Golbik and Mr Napieralski spoke about how you are taking beds from child psychiatry and moving them to COVID. Empty. And the second thesis. In the project you submitted, you can see the announcement of further penalties. Control, consequence, punishment - one of your politicians boasted. Dowieraj (The Bell), go ahead - check the author of this quote. How about education, motivation, cooperation, trust? Society is your ally in the fight against this pandemic. It's worth believing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u56	Thank you very much. I invite you, Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u57	Good morning. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today I wanted to claim electroradiologists. Ladies and gentlemen, in the laws that you are working on, you are presenting new ones every now and then, completely forgetting about this group of doctors and skipping out on this group. Let me remind you: these are people who perform X-rays, but also various other tests. These people are on the front line in the fight against COVID. They're usually the ones that get patients from the S.R., and that's where the diagnostics are made. The Minister of Health never mentions these people. There are also people out there who don't take off COVID's clothing. They deserve the same support as other medical groups. I have a question: When will you provide proper assistance and protection for this group? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u58	Thank you very much. I invite Mrs Monica Rosa from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u59	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There's over 10,000 today. cases of new infections with coronavirus. As Minister Niedzielski said, there will be even more, it will be even worse, it will be even more difficult. And the worst of all are appearances - stress at press conferences, creating beautiful images against the background of ventilators or brought to the National Stadium of beds. These conferences calm your consciences, they look nice on public television, but they have dramatic consequences for citizens. You are hereby appointed in the act of the medical rescue coordinator. But what can the coordinator do if there are no beds in hospitals and there are no doctors? Is this coordinator gonna decide who needs to be removed from the ventilator, who needs to be thrown out of the hospital and who's supposed to be there? Will he have a real system to show him where the free beds are? Will those free beds even be there? Ladies and gentlemen, there are many other diseases besides the coronavirus. What about oncology? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What about heart disease? What about other lung diseases that people die of every day? There was supposed to be a great plan to return to the treatment of these diseases, and planned procedures are being moved. People are scared. And these appearances aren't gonna help them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u60	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the answers. We'll have five of those answers if everyone wants to speak. We begin with the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health of Minister Sławomir Gadomski. Minister, please, five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u61	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr. Marshal said 30 questions. It seems that only a few specific questions have been asked, quite a number of criticisms and free proposals, but some are very happy. Indeed, I, on the part of the government, declare and respond to many of these requests for substantive work. Yes, I think that in the Health Committee we have time to choose the best solutions and implement them for the benefit of Polish patients from these four billings. I think that this openness on our part is not the first time, and I hope that today we will be able to see that it is a fact, because we have quite carefully analysed the projects that you have submitted, and these are not solutions that we are denying. What is more, I think that these solutions are either already included in the law tabled by the Members of Law and Justice and in line with what we have worked together or are solutions which are otherwise addressed. I'm concerned about some suggestions that, on the one hand, we say, the ministry has slept, the ministry doesn't work, government benches are empty. The government is interested in this discussion, Mrs President, and the fact that only I, not Minister Niedzielski, sit in government benches does not change the fact that he is also interested and listens carefully to this discussion. What is more, I think you will have an excellent opportunity today to ask questions both to the Minister and to the Prime Minister, because such a agenda has been planned. So I'm just going to briefly refer to a few threads about the legal drafts that are being processed. I think we will have much more time in the Committee on Health to get back to these issues. For the second time, I declare that we are open to reasonable amendments. We all have a common goal, i.e. in terms of solutions included in the project submitted by the Left, related to the sanctioning of masks, or in the project submitted by the Polish Coalition, related to salaries addressed in the project developed with the Law and Justice, together with the government, or the arrangements for creating certain possibilities for local governments, also addressed in this project, which was submitted in cooperation with the government, we are open to them, also to others. Perhaps there are areas of solutions that we have missed and which we can discuss together. I think that the topic, so strongly addressed, concerning the direction of doctors and a certain sanctioning system that is involved, is probably obvious to all of us. There is a problem with the management of doctors - an obvious problem with the fact that certain groups of people led, about 70%, 60% , they are not effectively targeted or do not put themselves into this work - and hence these solutions in the law, which on the one hand give opportunities, and on the other hand actually introduce a certain sanctioning system. The issue of medical salaries, repeatedly raised in questions, and a word of explanation. The salaries that we propose in the bill, this rate 200%, is an increase in the rate in force. Previously, this allowance was 150% for people who were led . But we don't differentiate between doctors. We do not differentiate them because the Minister of Health has given the National Health Fund an order that in all hospitals that fight against COVID, i.e. previously single-name hospitals, and now third-level and second-level hospitals, these allowances be paid. This is not a new command, this is not a command from today, this is a command that was valid. So there's no differentiation, it's just a demonstration in the act of exceptional mode in the case of doctors or medical personnel led by voivodships. But also the staff who fights in these hospitals and is employed there, does not change their place, is additionally remunerated. I will tell you more, the National Health Fund or the COVID Fund, which is at the disposal of the Minister of Health, has paid out a great deal of extracurricular measures related to the fight with COVID. These are measures addressed to hospitals, these are measures addressed to laboratories in connection with testing, and these are measures that we assume are used by the managers of these entities to pay some extra-ordinary salaries during this period. That's why we're channeling these extra resources. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The issue of GIS remuneration and the question of huge commitment raised in several questions, the work has also been noticed by us. Firstly, in the form of payment of overtime payments for work carried out by health inspection staff. In addition, we have greatly increased the financing of health inspection in the draft budget law presented to the High House for the following year. I am talking about an increase in the budget for sanitary inspections by PLN 300 million in terms of year by year. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I hope that we will very much agree on these four draft laws and hope that we will come up with a single version of them, which will be the result of a fairly large compromise and, above all, will be an effective tool to encourage medical staff on the one hand, and on the other hand - perhaps in situations that none of us would want - to be able to apply certain sanctions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. May I have one comment, please? Minister, I've allowed you as Marshal of the Sejm to speak a minute longer. Do you know why? Because I thought that matters relevant to the life and health of Poles are the most important. Do you know why I have such a reflection? 'Cause if there was a marshal or a PiS marshal sitting here, you wouldn't have gotten that minute... Good man. ...because in such cases you cut the voices of the opposition as you wish. And I think that the most important things for Poles are so important that I didn't interrupt you. Appreciate it. Thank you very much. I invite the representative of the applicants to the first draft law by Mr Czesław Hoca from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome. Not in the first place. It's the last one in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u63	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal will allow me to begin with a reflection dedicated to some of my speakers from the opposition. I quote to you the biblical wisdom of Sirach: there is either fame or shame in speech. I think it's worth it for some of you to take this suggestion to heart. Second thing. Of course, we understand that in such situations, the violent law of the opposition is to criticize, not to have any responsibility, to have some populist, demagogical work, but to argue, because the dispute is the essence of democracy, but on other issues, certainly not about health and life. Life and health is sacrum, we should all protect and save them. And here we should all be coherent and together so that we can overcome all difficulties. However, all demagogic, populist, cuckooing, haying defeatism It's not right now, not right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left has given us an opinion on how we are to take this seriously. If the Left, the prominent politician of the Left, a few months ago, said that the coronavirus was really a Christmas present that fell from the sky of Law and Justice, if the Civic Coalition wanted elections to be in autumn, presidential elections, what are we talking about? That's not true. How serious are you guys? What truth? If there was activity, it was activity abroad. You reported on the Polish government, on Poles, but there was no such positive and substantive activity. One day dead. You said one day's medical delay was no big deal. Then ask the paramedics, the doctors in the ICU, the doctors in the E.R., what does that mean? Life is decided by seconds, minutes, hours. And seven months of delay in the bill? The project was to be presented on Friday. You threw 16 of our designs in the trash. I'm answering the question that's been asked. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, Belgium and France have introduced a curfew. There's a state of emergency in the Czech Republic. Over 11,000. diseases in the 11 million Czech Republic. In the UK, Ireland is preparing for lockdown. That's where the government slept? Everybody asleep? After all, the situation is dynamic, changing from day to day. You have to react instantly. The responsible government is running instantly, and you've caused a day of delay. In medicine, a day of corpses is eternity. That's it. That's it. That's it. Friday was supposed to be a project. I answer your question. Yesterday, you were talking about the woman who's giving birth may be directed to work. Bullshit. I'll read you the article again. 47 Law of 5 December 2008 on the prevention and control of infectious diseases, paragraphs 3, 1, 2a and 2b: upon request. So even if a woman like that wanted to work for some patriotic reason, because of some great empathy, she'd have to apply to the voivodeship. Indeed, there is a technical error there that point 2b is repealed. This is a mistake. It's just technical. It says at first that even if she wanted to, she has to file a motion. But there's a mistake? We'll make a precise amendment. 'Cause you got an extra day. However, it must not be used populistly. This must be done in a substantive manner. The beginning had to be read: at your request. No one can direct such a woman to work without her consent. That's also written in this bill. You wrote on your knees. I'll read it again: on my application to the voivodeship. You're just picking some lines to argue to keep it straight. This should not be done in aspects of the right to health and life. Is there a mistake? Is it? The Merciful Samaritan is a no-fault system, i.e. without fault, i.e. the system of non-punishment for faultless errors, with the exception, of course, of gross abuse of powers or gross failure to comply with the obligation. Thank you very much. It's over. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u64	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Zdzisław Wolski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to elaborate a little on the subject, taking advantage of the opportunity, when it comes to the very important and, unfortunately, the strategic issue of masks. Well, in the spring we all knew, at least those who wanted to know, listened to experts, professionals, some practitioners, of course in the case of other epidemics, only our government thought it would somehow disperse the bones. We've wasted a huge amount of time. At that time, of course, there were masks, because this is the main topic, and I'm the representative of the club that made this bill, and then our society followed the rules on masks. Then it turned out that the epidemic would somehow disperse itself, although it was obvious it wouldn't disperse. Let me remind you that was the time when the flu shots were ordered. They were ordered in vain little. The effect is that at the moment even medical personnel are not fully vaccinated with the flu. This is your fault. Accelerated training for anesthesiology nurses was abandoned to have more trained nurses for the hour that came. They weren't trained. It would be enough to do a short-term training within 3 months, fairly reliable. Nothing's been done. Now they can't be trained, because those who could teach a profession are very busy. It's about the older nurses. The health care should have been strengthened in staff at that time. Nothing's been done. And that's my big grudge against the government. We have reached a stage where, despite the persistent and great efforts of health care professionals, different quarantines become fiction, because there is no one to manage them, there is no one to interview. There's not even much to work on because the labs are clogging up, the swab-snatching points. The results are waiting so long, it's already becoming some grotesque theatre if we're thinking about a real fight against the epidemic. We're in deep defense. It's the virus that rules us, we're just doing desperate acts, I'm talking about the government, pretending to control the situation, and that something is really happening. My colleague will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u66	Thank you very much, sir. I invite Mr Shopiński, the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u67	I regret that the Minister did not comment on the comments submitted by the General Medical Council, the General Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics, the National Chamber of Laboratory Diagnostics. The Supreme Chamber of Nurses and Obstetrics has clearly written, and this is the attention to the ladies and gentlemen of Members who appear here that the registers in accordance with the regulations do not contain information about diseases, pregnancy or children. This is not information related to the profession. There is no justification for the collection of such data. It should be stressed that health information is sensitive information and can be processed by authorised authorities on the basis of legal provisions. Thus, the Chief Council of Nurses and Midwives answered the question of how this provision is intended to order the medical professional authorities within 7 days to provide a list of persons who may be directed to work in the fight against the epidemic. If the Minister wanted to order these local authorities to collect comments and update such data, which, of course, is theoretically possible, it would be possible for the local government of nurses and midwives to say that it would take him a few months to do so, so it would be a matter of next year. So the question is, is this the way? And the last case is a one-day delay. Well, we have to improvise because we wasted time. What's happening now is like panic. The Ministry of Health didn't pass the exam. And here's the question: Ladies and gentlemen, who said that? Did it come from this side of the room, or from this side of the room, or where did it come from? Well, in solving this mystery, I will say that this is what your Member, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, your Member, has said. Mr Andrzej Sosnierz said that this is panic and the Ministry of Health failed the exam, and that we slept through these few months. Therefore, please do not direct the observations on the day-to-day delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u68	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u69	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to thank on behalf of our team of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15 for their positive response to the bill presented by us, which we call a bonus for the hero. Just today, during our deliberations, I received a text from those affected by this law, namely qualified health care professionals. It is this professional group that is often forgotten, and has been doing very hard work since the patient's admission to the hospital, to all care and care activities, until the very end, and is sometimes witnessing the patient's last breath. A lot of people forgot about this group. And there's a place in this bill. Not only a doctor bonus, not only a bonus for nurses, paramedics, lab workers, but also for medical carers. All those who work on the front line, fighting the coronavirus, should be rewarded. It's not just the guys who get sent by the governor or the minister. For this, I would like to thank you for these votes from the various clubs, from all of them, because no one questioned the validity of this proposal. And I hope that our proposal will be reflected in the work of the committee. Because we would also like at least this entry to be implemented in the large law presented by the Law and Justice Club. Second thing. I would like us to take a substantive look at the debate that is taking place in this House and which will take place at committee meetings and will have its continuation in the Senate. There is nothing to be upset about, and I am speaking here to the representatives of the Law and Justice, because the opposition in fact criticises your actions or resembles your omissions that have happened so far. You think someone in this opposition room has taken your actions too hard? Well, remember who said the opposition was worse than the coritos. Wasn't that your representative, President Andrzej Duda, who comes from your environment? Because it's a common president, and I wouldn't want it to sound different. Yes. And many other critical words, very critical, were wrongly directed towards the opposition. And the fact that we're paying attention to your negligence at the health centre... First amendment after five years? Are you guys that good for the health department? The changes that concern not the system, but the calling of persons and the taking away of authority from the elders - did you provide the health care provider who is breathing with his sleeves today? You took out the labs at the hospitals. After all, the segregation of patients, which you said only applies to other countries, and it was not in Poland, is in fact in hospitals today. After all, each of us personally knows the cases of our loved ones, friends, neighbors, for whom the hospital is looking for a place in another facility all day long or where they must be connected to a ventilator. It's already happening. It's the same as when it comes to medical emergencies. It's not what we expect. After all, each of us gets in mailboxes comments from medical rescuers, how this should be resolved - systemically, not through a warrant, not through decisions. What will such a hospital director or chief do, of course, have two single beds in the courtroom, but he doesn't put two different sick units where one can lead to death? And what, that warrant coordinator's gonna throw that person in the hospital? That's not what this is about. After all, you too, especially in the ministry, have signals from individual hospitals. After all, with our comments, we want to change the health care system in Poland. We do not want pictures from Tarnobrzeg, where people come under windowsills, take sticks and hit them with a prescription or referral, to be an illustration of health care in Poland. Do we want the health system in Poland to look like this? I don't think so. The same thing we've been paying attention to is teleports. We'd like that patient access to be there. And if you can't do it in a public health system, let's put in a private private health system, a couple hundred hospitals, a couple hundred offices. If I can't get into public health, pay for my treatment when I go to private. Because we all know, [[♪ The bell ♪]] In this very place, we may have to resort to it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u70	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Jack Protas from the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Hoc started by quoting, so let me also quote Fredra, and I will direct this quote to the rulers: 'Not a little wisdom to speak wisely, but the greatest - to do wisely'. We have heard many beautiful words, many assurances, but what is the reality, Poles see today. I will also turn to Mr Piecha for a start. Well, sir, I was two seniors, I was two marshals, and I assure you that the county is the owner of the hospitals and the owner of the voivodship hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a question about the involvement of local authorities in the fight against pandemics. Firstly, I would like to say that before any anti-COVID laws were created, most Polish municipalities introduced tax exemptions for entrepreneurs, mainly from property tax. Many municipalities also exempted entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs, from rents if these rents were to affect the municipal or municipal cash register. It was a huge help for that time. Secondly, voivodship local governments have committed huge resources, millions of aid also to entrepreneurs, to grants for those who are in a very difficult situation, both by using their resources and at a rapid pace by moving European funds to help entrepreneurs directly in the fight against COVID. Another thing, shopping. Ladies and gentlemen, we had a meeting with teachers and school heads before 1 September. Because school principals were given a mask from the Ministry, which was sufficient for the school for the first week of operation. And how do you think in the following weeks, in the following months, who financed the purchase of masks, disinfectants, any other equipment needed to protect our children, protect teachers, protect parents? Local governments. Millions of zlotys have been assigned to this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen! Self-governments also supervise, own, run the DPS. How many measures had to be directed to security in these facilities, to the purchase of appropriate equipment, as well as personal protective equipment? Public transport. It is difficult to estimate how much public transport subsidies must be borne by the local government if it wants to move its residents to work. At the same time, distances must be maintained. On the bus, on the train there can be a number of people, while these buses, these trains, this metro must move. This costs are borne by the local government. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that the government is making further decisions, better or worse, accurate or not - most of the time, unfortunately, we can see that it is difficult with this accuracy - while the consequences are borne by the local government. He must correct mistakes, abandon government or government. Every decision that comes and every regulation affects the functioning of the local government. It is the self-government that has to translate them into reality, to everyday life, to finance them, to organize them. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let's do everything I ask the government here to remember at this difficult time that health services are on the front line of the fight against COVID, but also local authorities that finance and organize the operation of both hospitals and other public institutions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u72	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I propose, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, that the Sejm address: - Parliamentary draft law amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19, contained in print No 683, - a parliamentary bill amending the Act on the Prevention and Control of Infections and Diseases in Human Beings, contained in print No. 684, - a parliamentary bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, contained in print No 685, - a parliamentary bill amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, contained in print No 686, to the Health Committee for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm declaring a time-out. 11.35. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 mins 17 hours 11 min 36]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Information from the Prime Minister on the state's state of preparation for the growing wave of infections with SARS-CoV-2 and the underlying diseases of COVID-19, as well as the flu virus during the pandemic of Coronavirus. I ask the President of the Council of Ministers of Mr Mateusz Morawiecki to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, I wanted to recall the words of the medical authority, and at the same time the person who should connect us all. Professor Marian Zembala said that in the current situation everyone should cooperate beyond divisions. There's no other way. It's a call for solidarity. The call for solidarity, the language that I think everyone here - regardless of the differences - we understand. It was this solidarity in the approach to the epidemic that helped us greatly in the spring, because it was 230 days ago that we started struggling with the pandemic. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to construct this information around six major areas. Firstly, I will quote the information that can be considered a scientific consensus today as regards COVID-19. Secondly, then I'll tell you what we've done in the last few months. Thirdly, I will tell you about the state of preparation for the epidemic here and now. Fourthly, I will talk about the state of the economy during the epidemic and about certain economic perspectives. Fifthly, I'm going to talk about schools, about sharpenings, about particular industries. Finally, sixthly, I will also talk about our strategy and plans for the future, how we want to continue to fight COVID-19. So I'm going to start with what we can call today, regardless of the extremes, from the extremes, with a scientific consensus. Recently, perhaps just a few days ago, one of the most recognized medical journals in the world, The Lancet, published some kind of communis opinion doctorum, a common opinion, scientific consensus of all those who deal with - and do not often agree with each other, but somewhere there is also some consensus - COVID-19. By bringing this together in some three areas, it can be stressed that there are three main issues. First of all, when it comes to COVID-19, the most deadly are contact, proximity, social contact, frequency, social mobility, because they primarily cause contamination from one another. Young people who, to a lesser extent, become infected in a dangerous way are also very good, as epidemiologists say, by means of a carrier or a belt of Coronavirus transmission to others. Looking from this perspective, we move on to the second point of this consensus on - which some of you are also preaching here - the so-called. Stud resistance theory. According to the communist opinion of the doctorum, this is a wrong theory, because regardless of the fact that quite a large part of the population may be infected, which also threatens a huge wave of death, there is no guarantee that there will be no wave of fire in a moment: fires, widespread fires in various other places of society, and that such a strategy can lead to this. We see it in some countries. Remember the strategy of Sweden or the UK. It was at first a Darwinist theory of resistance. Today we see from this theory that it does not work the way its proponents originally assumed. And thirdly, what is a consensus in the fight against the coronavirus is the limitation of contacts, masks, distance, disinfection, sanitary conditions, airing of rooms, ventilation, more and more people talk about it these days. This is something that interrupts the transmission in the most effective way. And we have applied such a strategy, which corresponds to today's scientific consensus, from the very beginning. That's why today, as we compare our condition with the total number of diseases to e.g. Italy, that's 50%. more in Italy per million inhabitants, in France - 13 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] in a million inhabitants, in Poland less than 5. Finally, in the UK, Belgium, Spain, the Netherlands much more. So this shows that our strategy as one of the major European countries was effective at that stage. And today we are sticking to this strategy as well. Surely today we are dealing with a very dangerous phenomenon, with a second wave. And you have to say It is also here that we may be threatened by a third wave, because we depend on whether a cure or vaccine will be invented on COVID-19. So there are some fluctuations that we might have to deal with in the long term. But our strategy is above all a strategy and principle: to build social and economic life so that we can learn, work, live and at the same time not close the economy while cutting through this transmission belt of COVID-19. Now I'm going to move on to the second topic, which is what we've done so far in the last few months. First of all, we made huge purchases, and I'm gonna show it on numbers. Only the Material Reserve Agency has been shopping since June, July, August several million masks FFP2, FFP3, 0.5 billion gloves - yes, I was not wrong, not 0.5 million only 0.5 billion gloves - and many other equipment: suits, protective aprons, trimmings, three-layer masks, and several hundred million. Only to schools in August we got divorced e.g. 75,000. touchless thermometers and 20 million masks. And that was it, because that was the demand, because these masks are today several hundred million. Sewage fluids - 10 million l. So to a very large extent, all the materials that were needed arrived at the schools at the right time. Of course, during the summer months we also increased our powers when it comes to testing. We came out of the original point - 4,000. tests a day. How many test options do we have today, ladies and gentlemen? That's 80,000. Every day over the summer, we have increased our ability and efficiency to test for Coronavirus. Besides, it should be recalled that it was the Civic Platform that closed down 30 laboratories in the health centre in 2010 and 2015. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] That's the truth. In 2016, we stopped this process. Today we have the ability to test - increased from 4,000. Up to 80,000. - 20 times the size. Five years. Next thing you know, what we did in the summer months. $5.5,000. Beds. In July we prepared a district strategy, green, yellow and red districts. The strategy has been implemented. In August, in September, she acted the way we expected it to work. In September, however, there was a great deal of new movement, a new social mobility. I'm gonna talk about it right now as I describe the state here and now. We have also prepared the application according to the best international standards, the STOP COVID application. That's another thing. In Europe, let's not be afraid to say it. The next thing we did during the summer months was increase the number of beds from the beginning of September to today with 6,000. beds designed only to treat patients with coronavirus up to 16 thousand. It's logic... First of all, we bought equipment that treats the most severe patients with Coronavirus, or respirators. We bought enough ventilators to triple the state of the respirator beds between August and today... How much didn't we buy? ...three and a half times. That's not enough. We have more than two and a half thousand in the stores of the Material Reserve Agency. respirators that are ready to connect to hospital beds. So all hospitals, everyone, regardless of what the founding body is, whether the Marshal's or the city's, anyone who wants to plug in a ventilator will get this ventilator, because today we have nearly 3,000 free ventilators. This is the result of strategic thinking during the summer months, when we knew that we could collide with more demand for ventilators. Today, I'll remind you, there are less than 800,000 in patients with Coronavirus. respirators. Free is connected several hundred, about 600, 700, but free to connect is almost 3,000. At the same time, throughout the entire hospital structure, we changed the assignment in such a way as to respond to the challenges we face. I'm going to talk about the situation today, where we are here and now, which is the third part of my speech, my information. First of all, we need to show you the state of beds occupied. Well, that's about 60% today. It's a big percentage, but we're still increasing the bed base. We're out of the state, like I said, $6,000. Beds six weeks ago, seven weeks ago, today it's 16, 17,000. Beds. The number of beds connected to the system is growing faster in recent days than the number of patients with COVID-19 who require hospital care on these beds. But a large number of infections, nine, ten thousand. The infection that we need to stop, at the same time, means that the number of beds available to patients must increase. That's what happens. In our plan, which I'm going to talk about in the last part of my speech, there's an assumption of at least another 15,000. Beds. 13,000. already identified in county hospitals, hospitals under the Ministry of National Defence, Ministry of Health or Ministry of Health. At least on paper. Where are we right now? Well, ladies and gentlemen, there was a sharp increase in September, which was seen on the curve that I showed during the press conference, social contacts, which was probably related to the fact that about 5 million children and young people returned to schools... There's no virus, the Prime Minister said. ...but also with the fact that probably students from the beginning of October also appeared in some universities in stationary mode. What does that mean? That means that this R factor... Prime Minister, those are your words. ...who for scientists, for all those who show scientific consensus in this area, began to grow. This caused with some delay - because the epidemic works with a delayed effect: 2- 3-weeks, sometimes a little faster - that more infected people began to appear and not in such a set of outbreaks, focal system, as it was in spring, but it is widespread throughout society. To stop it, what now, here and now? At the beginning of October we implemented new sharpenings, the obligation to wear masks by everyone. I'll come back to that in the fifth part of my speech, because I know there are skeptics here in the courtroom as well. But we're guided by research, expert opinions, viral experts, and that's why we recommended it. As a result, there has been a change, which is defined in scientific research as: 13% A smaller R-pointer, which is this indicator, which in a horizontal way shows what is human-to-human transmission in the entire population. What did we do next? Then we applied further research into schools. Here, in the field of education and education, the R factor in remote education falls by another around 21%. So again, through this move in the right direction that we announced last week, we have a step towards reducing social transmission. Maybe that's why a week ago some people were worried there'd be a dozen thousand infections. And there's only 10. That's all there is, but we're assuming the worst-case scenario. There could be a second, there could be a third, there could be another wave. That is why we will certainly create such a system of hospital availability of beds for patients with COVID-19, so that we do not suffer from what happened to Western Europe, the richest countries in the world - that is to say: we do not treat patients above a certain level of age. Remember this country: Spain, France, Belgium... But we're in Poland. And that's over 60 or 65-- these patients weren't treated. Now we also have stadiums in Poland. So that's another clue we've made that we've taken advantage of. Come on, ladies and gentlemen, here and now we have 45%. free ventilators. [[Game in the O.R.]] Now the Prime Minister says, listen up. We used to listen on vacation. So we have some already available connected that are not in use and which are free. We do not have a situation like that in some Western European countries, where this number is far more exploited. As far as our testing capabilities are concerned, today was one of the higher test numbers, 51 or 51.5 thousand. But there were days when we tested over 60,000. patients, more than 60,000. Poles. Our capabilities, the performance capacity of the whole testing system are therefore higher today and constantly raised so that when you have to test more, you can test more. So our strategy, our way of the centre - when we reject one extreme, i.e. those who oppose any sharpening, but also those who want to close the economy, immediately close everything, as in spring or even more so - it is the most appropriate, because we need to learn to live with the pandemic in the longer term, because it can weaken and grow again. It's gonna be okay. You'll have time, you'll talk. Your marshal, please... That is why we need to adapt with all our power the methods that will lead us to learn remotely in most ways - and I will come back to that - we will work, we will simply live, but we will protect our seniors, our weakest, we will be able to treat all the people who will need this treatment. This is our strategy for here and now, and from this point of origin, in the final part, I will tell you about our plans for the future. Now a few words in the fourth point, about the economy. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what happened to the economy of the world, the economy of Europe, was not written in any economic textbooks. No one has ever faced such problems. First, it's a complete shock, so-called shock. asymmetrical supply shock, asymmetrical demand shock, full suppression of liquidity mechanisms in the economy. We responded to all of this instantly, we reacted with a financial shield, we reacted with an anti-crisis shield, a liquidity cushion for entrepreneurs who are still there. Measured by objective indicators - this cushion is and according to financiers, economists will suffice for a few more months. I am speaking, of course, with regard to the scale of the economy as a whole. I know there are industries that are and will be affected more. I'll talk about that in a minute. There was no advice in any textbooks, no Keynes, no Krugman, no Friedman, no Hayek, no other great economists, how to deal with such a crisis. It'll be Moravian. It was the first time the world has encountered such a great economic disaster. We went through this relatively dry foot... Island. ... because in OECD indicators, in European Commission indicators, in these 2 years Poland has the chance to pass the most dry foot through these very agitated waters, including the second wave. The second wave that Mr President of the Civic Coalition said in the autumn, this pandemic will be in decline, because that's your expertise. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's what you said. By the way, show me your expertise, Mr. Chairman. I'm curious. [[Applause]] You're the one who canceled. We won! There's no more danger. So, ladies and gentlemen, come on. Economy. What is the best indication of how the economy has been going through this biggest crisis for about 100 years? The measure of how we are going through the crisis is whether we can keep jobs. Through our financial shields, we have maintained 5 million jobs. This is a great achievement that has led Poles today to sleep more peacefully than many other European citizens despite these huge economic threats. West. At the same time, it is worth noting that in the opinion of many international institutions... Recently, the international fund reported that our fiscal, budgetary response was the largest in Europe. So from your point of view... You said on the one hand: spending for small and on the other hand: budget deficit too big. Well, that's iron logic, indeed. As we want to increase expenditure, and we have increased it, because it was a cushion of PLN 200 billion, in various financial, monetary, fiscal forms, we really had to make this deficit rise this year. This deficit is, but that's how we protected our jobs. Ladies and gentlemen! Because you have to realise that the relationship between the epidemic and the economy is very large, the correlation is huge and at the same time this reciprocity is bilateral. The bigger the epidemic... The sooner we can fight the epidemic, the less it attacks, the better the economy feels in this situation, the better the prospects for the economy are. But also the other way: if there is an economic depression, if there is rising unemployment in the economy, a rapidly growing public debt, a sharp decline in GDP... What happened in the second quarter of the United States' GDP is above 30% of the fall. If someone said something like that to someone a year ago, they'd just be banging on their head. In the UK - minus 22% in the second quarter. We go through this differently and this is the best measure, relative, comparative measure, how we save jobs, how we save entrepreneurs from bankruptcy, how we save their market share. And you know this shield is good. You know she works because here in the Seym, Mr. President Budka and Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish spoke about it... No... ...and then publicly criticized her. Such politics, such hypocrisy. [[Applause]] Bravo! You spent all your money before the crisis started. So, ladies and gentlemen, our economy is going down the road. And I will not say that we will be in the first place in the European Union within these two years, but according to today's figures there is a lot of evidence of this. So let me be more careful: we will be in the top three or the top five of the European Union as a whole. And from big countries, we'll be in the first place. And that is the measure of the effectiveness of Law and Justice's economic activities. [[Applause]] Now I'm going to go to this fifth area that I wanted to discuss: schools, sharpenings, industries. So, first of all, it's a school thing. This is where we start by saying that in the epidemic... There are no such places in a situation of widespread epidemics that are completely safe for anyone. Because the epidemic is indeed horizontal today, horizontal, spread everywhere in society. That is why we are guided by experts, and at the beginning we closed for stationary secondary education, secondary schools, because it is more than 1.5 million people, students who create this social movement, create mobility and make social contacts bigger. But also with a high probability this afternoon, at the next of the daily meetings of the crisis staff, we will decide that also higher primary schools will be subject to remote teaching or hybrid teaching. For the past two weeks, local governments have been asking for it. This is because, according to experts and epidemiologists - for example, read or listen to what Professor Gut says - for people up to the age of nine, infection can very, very rarely result in very serious health consequences. But already in teenagers, the risk is increasing, although fortunately in teenagers complications are very rare. It is up to the elderly to protect at all costs and to ensure that there is the least social contact there in this group. I'll talk about that in a minute too. And when school kids live with their grandparents, what then? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we have allocated in the first part, and also in the summer, creating a technical space for remote learning, PLN 370 million, and now we are allocating another PLN 300 million to remote learning for schools. [[Applause]] It's needed so that the students can... About 40... ...learn in the most effective, effective way possible. On the other hand, we have to say directly and honestly that remote science is far from the same as stationary science. The teacher is always better able to pass on knowledge in fixed mode, which is why I understand teachers and I understand all those who prefer this mode of teaching. I'd prefer that, too. But at the same time, we need to respond to what we're in danger of, and we're facing an increase in the number of infected people, and we're going to want to slow it down in a little while. He was falling, too. We want it to be no more infected in two weeks, only less every day. So we're gonna reorganize schools in this cycle. And let us also bear in mind that for the youngest children, for preschool children, for school children up to 9, 10 years old, according to psychologists, children's psychiatrists, school education is also very important due to social effects, not only educational and pedagogical effects. That's why we're trying to differentiate. So much for schools. Now, ladies and gentlemen, there are such false apostles of anti-massageism who call on everyone not to wear masks. I'm afraid so. Let me put it this way: sometimes I see them not wearing masks here, but then, when they're in the crowd, they quickly wear masks themselves. They fear for themselves, and they do not care for others in the same way. [[Applause]] Exactly. So we are dealing with some kind of hypocrisy. It's like the PiS guys. And that shouldn't be the case, ladies and gentlemen. With all these sharpenings, all the advice that the expert groups give us, we want to make this transmission less, less, less, less. That is why we stress that these sharpenings must be strictly respected. That's why our cops, our uniformed services are working decisively to enforce all these laws. This can still be included in the part where I talked about what's been going on in the last few months. Well, our uniformed services have checked out 20 million people who were in quarantine. 20 million calls, visits, knocking on the door. The State Fire Department, recently the Territorial Defence Army and the operational forces are preparing - I stress this - efficient testing infrastructure and even more infrastructure for swab extraction. This also means that all provisions are to be rigorously respected and will be fully controlled. It is necessary for each of us to abide by these rules. We're not just living for each other. This truth must be remembered today, because we protect ourselves and protect others. We protect in particular the most vulnerable: the elderly, the elderly and the sick, the sick today... You sent them to the election. ...so those whose mortality rate in the case of COVID-19 is high - over 70 years of age is 10% , over 80 years of age is more than 20% , over 90 years of age is more than 25% So this scale, this coefficient is growing very fast. That is why we want to rely on expert opinions. It is based on these meetings that we draw conclusions, that's why we have proposed one, not another set of sharpenings, because the virus is transmitted in moist, crowded, non-ventilated rooms and such rooms also belong to... School classes. ... some of those industries in which sharpening has been implemented. Sharpening isn't closing. But we want, as I said before, to learn to live, work and use the services of various industries in a way that would be safer. So we will also be a cultural department, and a great area of services -- this is a great area of the national economy -- organize them in such a way that they are safer so that this provision of services can be carried out in the long term, but that it can be carried out as safely as possible. It's your talk that doesn't work. We use expert advice, but also opposition advice, which is why I wanted to thank the Polish Coalition and the Left for the constructive reflections that they shared last week during our meeting, because it was a constructive part of the discussion: about local governments, about the health centre, about the Day of All Saints. And we want to talk to the opposition. I also thank you that many of you will probably support this in order to clarify from the legal side and to eliminate this legal uncertainty about wearing masks, because some people are annoyed, others are violent opponents of such a tightening, but according to scientific consensus it is necessary. That is why we want to regulate this, if I may say so, or to strengthen this regulation also at the statutory level. And I also thank you for your cooperation in this area. Ladies and gentlemen! This middle-up is needed to protect as many people as possible on the one hand and to protect jobs, so that there is no economic dullness on the other. That is why I will now move on to our strategy for future months, perhaps even for future quarters. What is it? Well, we have three main objectives of this strategy. Firstly, health protection, health protection and health care, namely the protection of what is at the heart of the social service in order to reduce the risk of COVID-19. Secondly, protecting the economy, protecting jobs. And thirdly, the protection of seniors, the weakest, because the highest number of deaths is in this group, so many of our actions - and I'm about to talk about some - refer to this area. What are the four main lines of defense in our strategy? The first line of defense is rigor and sharpening, these are masks, distance, sanitary conditions, this is the application that I encourage everyone to use - Stop COVID. She's already saved some lives. This application was created based on the best global solutions. Which nobody uses. Do you know how many people use it? These are, of course, our doctors. At the same time, these activities will evolve, because the epidemic is also dangerous because it is unknown, it is an uncontrollable, unpredictable phenomenon. What does that mean? For each strategist, this means that our response must be flexible. We have to assume a buffer of flexibility, a buffer, and he's put in here. And now I'm going to talk about him in the context of the second, third and fourth lines of defense. The second line of defense is our health system, that's our 16,000 today. hospital beds, 40% more than it's being used today. This is, of course, our isolation, this is our quarantine, a quarantine checked by uniforms. These are, of course, our doctors who help to make this health care work properly. The third line of defense is the creation of an additional 13,000. hospital beds with adequate proportions of ventilator connections, oxygen connections. Let me remind you that only last week we distributed 350 ventilators to hospitals and 300 cardio monitors. So creating additional hospital beds from the resources of MON, MMA, Ministry of Health, county hospitals in which we make some reorganisation. That'll lead us to about 30,000. beds, beds for patients with COVID-19. ...from psychiatric hospitals you took away. That's a lot. Today, about 10,000 are used. That'll lead us to about 30,000. Dear fellow countrymen, in order to feel even more secure, we are creating a fourth line of defense. These are temporary hospitals, that's what we call them. These are hospitals in the Expo Hall, at the stadium, at the International Congress Centre. In each voivodship we want to have this type of bed resources additionally. Maybe they won't be in use, but I don't want us to have to create these extra bed resources in a month, two or three years from now, hospital resources in a violent way. This is our fourth line of defense and I hope it's not used. Now what additionally indicates our strategic thinking, our thinking forward. We have already created, there were preparations for this in the summer months that we used, one of the first in Europe - co-workers from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Home Affairs tell me that the first in Europe, but I would like to say: one of the first in Europe - rehabilitation centers... One, one. ... A post-COVID. So we're already thinking about those who get hurt, and we're going to rehabilitate them, cure them. This is a resort. in the deafnesses. So there is a piloting that works, which is active, which had to be prepared during the summer months. Today we are going to spread this strategy to other centers, because unfortunately, COVID-19 is a dangerous disease. I address the negationists, so let's call them, who say that the resistance of the herd and freedom in the application or not of rigors and orders, bans, commands, recommendations should be our strategy. No. This is not the right strategy. So, post-COVID rehabilitation. The next area, the thread I mentioned, I'm going to develop it in two sentences - Senior Support Corps. Tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, in the coming days, I will present how the Senior Support Corps will work. It is about protecting the weakest and oldest members of society, those who should isolate themselves. Are you speaking now? I ask you, our grandparents and grandmothers, our parents, our moms, our dads. Those who don't work who can stay at home - if you can stay at home, stay. Contact the relevant services, they will help you to deliver food, medicines or other first-aid items. The Senior Support Corps will lead to this... It's already happening in Poland. ...that we will reduce mortality in this part of the population. And this is a very important part of our response, our strategy for the future. Another issue that we are developing is that we are constantly drawing on the experiences of others. Here we are one of the first... Polish champion in Poland. The best, the best in Europe. ...the European countries that have signed an agreement, together with the European Commission, with seven or eight, today, perhaps eight, pharmaceutical companies, the largest companies in the world who are working on the vaccine, so that they can be in the first group, if the vaccine is invented, those who can benefit from this vaccine. We don't know when she's gonna be here, but we've already prepared the appropriate arrangements so that these vaccines can be used as soon as possible. Just like the flu. Thank you for reminding me. Mr President, flu vaccines - we have today, already purchased and ordered, over 3 million vaccines. And in previous years, [[Touchdown, applause]] In previous years... February. ...had been using flu vaccines for over 1,400 thousand. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Up to 1500 thousand. patients. Don't mock the Poles. No vaccines, don't lie to me. So we already have twice as many flu vaccines today. Few of this, for seniors over 75 years of age, and I want it to be over 70 years of age, these vaccines will be available free of charge to reduce the likelihood of cumulative diseases. This is our strategy, this is thinking for the future. A strategy that assumes these four lines of defence against COVID-19. Apples. And now, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion. We're going that way in the middle. On the one hand, we have those who want to lead to a total lockdown, who call for the greatest possible... What are you talking about? ...expenditure only to lead to financial collapse. On the other hand, we have those who want to ignore the COVID-19. Who? But I'm warning you... That's what you're saying. ...ignoring the epidemic in the name of the value of defending the economy can lead to something worse. [[Game in the O.R.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. It can lead to the closure, the lockdown of the economy, part of the economy, being longer, deeper and with greater economic impact. That's why this middle road is so necessary. Let us reject this strange alliance of extreme negationists and those who propose immediate closure of the economy, as do some of our opponents also in the Sejm. But who? Who's that? Let's throw it away and take the road inside, she's the safest. [[Applause]] Till your mask falls off. Today, the fight against the epidemic and the simultaneous defence of the economy, the defence of jobs is our Polish state right. Therefore, it is worth to fight COVID-19 in a spirit of solidarity over divisions. I can't promise today that in a few months, the COVID will be gone because no one knows. You've said that before. We need to put ourselves in a longer fight. Maybe there'll be another wave. Maybe there'll be a vaccine. We don't know that today. You've already told me, we've fought the disease. I can promise you we'll do everything we can. If we've made mistakes, we admit it. Whoever doesn't make mistakes, throw the first stone. Trach! Apologize. We will do everything we can to protect our seniors, protect the economy and health care, protect the health and life of all our citizens. Ladies and gentlemen! The nearest weeks, months, and perhaps even unfortunately quarters - hopefully not years - will be the hardest months and quarters for the Republic of Poland for decades, probably for at least 30 years, maybe longer. There are no easy solutions, but there are solutions that provide a flexible response to what is happening. It's about what we're doing today. Finally, the epidemic - like the vast majority of epidemics or all epidemics - will be effectively eradicated by man, but at the same time we must protect jobs, job opportunities and our economy. Therefore, until the vaccine or the right medicine is invented, I suggest that we all use our only vaccine today, the most important vaccine. This vaccine is solidarity. We're gonna get out of this fight in victory together. Thank you. [[Some of the gathered get up, long-lasting applause]] That's a 10,000 round of applause. disease?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u74	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the Minister of Health of Mr Adam Niedzielski. Maybe the Minister will cover up this embarrassing speech. I would very much like to ask you all to remain calm in the courtroom. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. ...in front of the D.A.'s office and the courthouse.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u75	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today's results speak for themselves - 10,000. new infections. 10,000. is a psychological limit, a number that not only affects the psyche, but also represents a real burden for the health system. A study by our experts shows that about 20% of the daily number of newly infected people will be hospitalized. This means that with this number of infections, we will have a daily hospital coverage of 2,3 thousand. new patients. Of these 2,3 thousand. new patients about 10-20% He's gonna need oxygen support, he's gonna need care, he's gonna need a ventilator. Counting 2,000 every day. people, perhaps another nearly 200 every day will be in the worst situation, will need a ventilator. We've got enough for a week. These are the numbers that show us on the one hand the seriousness of the situation and, on the other hand, the direction in which we need to follow when it comes to developing our infrastructure. I want to assure you that we are aware of the different options, the different scenarios, including the blackest ones that assume an exponential increase in the number of diseases, so we are preparing for each scenario. At the moment, we are primarily developing a bed base. We develop this base in different ways. You're talking about temporary hospitals because it attracts the most attention, but in fact the biggest power supply of the bed base is due to the transformation of county hospitals and the use of large internist departments into so-called. Former voivodship hospitals for the treatment of COVID. We're actually in the middle of a continuous meeting with the voivodships, a continuous consultation with hospital directors, and I'm happy to say that in the near future, the bed base, which today covers 17,100 beds, will be increased by about 10,000, which will allow us to be one step ahead of the pandemic. The reported growth of new beds is increasing all the time, ahead of the number of new diseases. This is our guarantee of safety. The point is that the next steps that have been taken do not bring us closer to the situation of the disaster, but distance us from this situation. We're just creating security. I am very pleased to say from here that the private sector has also joined the fight against COVID. I've been talking to private hospitals, private medical units. We have a declaration, along with an indication of specific locations, about 1 000. extra beds. That's $1,000. Maybe not impressive, but please remember that private health care in Poland, I am talking about this level of hospitalization, is almost 4 thousand. beds, i.e. private health services, declared nearly 25% of their resources for the fight against COVID. This is a size comparable to the one mentioned by the Prime Minister, which we also want to achieve in the public sector. This is where we're going to want about 30,000 in this first move. Beds and then temporary hospitals -- thousands more. Ladies and gentlemen! If we're looking at the course of the pandemic from the beginning, from March... The Prime Minister was talking about strategy, and I'm gonna go downstairs and say a few words about tactics. We really have at least three clear periods of this pandemic. The first, you might say, lasted from the beginning to the holidays. It was such a stable course (the bell), the number of diseases ranged in the range of about 500. It ranged from 400 to 600, but those were stable runs. It was stability, this level, maintained for almost six months. Then we went in September. September already unfortunately showed the face of the second wave and we had to deal with growth, but not so dynamic, because it was linear. Let me remind you that at the beginning of September the number of cases was exactly 550, and at the end of September we had the number of cases of 1500, i.e. September has already tripled the number of cases. Then, in the first days of October, unfortunately this trend changed - to an exponential trend. This growth was no longer so gradual, systematic, but we were dealing with a high rate of acceleration in the development of the pandemic. Let me remind you that in October we entered with the number of infections 1500, while today we have a score of 10,000. That means six times the increase, and the month isn't over yet. Therefore, depending on the type, we have chosen the appropriate measures depending on the course of this pandemic. We're talking about vacation. We've expanded our reserves. Very often it is alleged that the holiday has not been used effectively. This is not true, for example, because during the holidays we tried to restore the availability of health care, which was practically frozen at the very beginning. These were also actions aimed at restoring public health, not only in the field of COVID. A good example here is the oncology, which at the turn of March and April, can be said to have recorded a very large regression, in the order of 50 , with regard to the issued DiLO cards, and in August it was possible to rebuild the displayability of the DiLO cards at the level of August of the previous year. So this very important task, which was carried out during these summer months, was to restore accessibility in those areas that were frozen in the first days of the pandemic. In September we also decided to make a very important move to include family doctors in the fight against the COVID, who in previous months were limited to teleporting and, to be honest, were largely not fulfilling the responsibilities or expectations we had for them. We put in place a solution, which was that family doctors would be able to order tests. At first we wanted to have this requirement after a physical examination, but then in dialogue with family doctors we worked out a solution that is based on a survey, referring to modern knowledge. Look at the effects. That amount of research that the Prime Minister was talking about is growing rapidly. Here I will point out that this increase is not random. It is also a result of expanding so-called. the ability of laboratories to perform tests. It was taken on vacation, it was done during summer. Right now, today's number of tests is 60,000. We've had a few days since the 60,000. was exceeded. It doesn't come out of nowhere. On the one hand, it comes from an expansion, but on the other hand it is a very serious credit to family doctors, whom I thank very much from this point of view for being involved in the treatment process - not only by commissioning tests, because in September we also developed a solution in which patients are directed to isolation or led during this isolation by family doctors. So we've got more testability, better discernment, where the virus is... Unfortunately, also a very characteristic feature of the change of pandemic is that at the beginning we had to deal with outbreaks, which is much easier to fight, where these simple isolation and quarantine movements allow to master the fire, and at the moment 2/3 of the cases are already dispersed sources. Ladies and gentlemen! This inclusion of POZ and testing strategy, I think, allows us to know what really the problem is. The situation is very serious and that is why we are taking drastic measures. Drastic measures that concern sharpening and which are, from our point of view, a brake on the development of an exponential pandemic. This brake must be pressed very hard, very dynamicly, because here we have sharpenings, the Prime Minister announced that today there will be further tightenings, but at the moment the reality seems to be that we are constantly monitoring the number of so-called. red zones, this number is already reaching 300 with a number of counties of 380. So we need to press this brake, we need to increase the tightening, because we defend not only people's health directly, but we also defend the efficiency of the healthcare system, because let's not hide that we are testing this performance right now. Ladies and gentlemen, the shift from the linear nature of the increase in the number of daily cases to the nature of exponential growth requires action from us, it requires action with regard to the introduction of restrictions, the application of a certain principle of social responsibility - an expression of whether I am selfish or altruist, is from my point of view in this situation wearing a mask, applying other rules of social life, because they should already have the status of rules of social life, i.e. distance - disinfection, i.e. the application which is also dedicated to these purposes, available for free in all online shops, mobile, and it is based on a solution that operates in Germany. This transition also means the need to implement certain legislative measures that will allow us to move away from merely taking care of beds, but to say that it is not beds that heal, but staff. That is why we have prepared a package of legislative solutions and I hope today - with openness to the discussion in the committee that I declare - I would like it to become another weapon today to fight the pandemic, a weapon that will allow us to give greater guarantees to the safety of staff, greater financial motivation and better working conditions while at the same time ensuring the safety of the patient. I am not going to talk about all the details here for now, because, as I said, the final shape of the bill will certainly be worked out after work in committee, because the first reading is over. But please, and I turn here from the position of all patients and doctors, please cooperate, please take a kind look at the solutions we propose. You're welcome to cooperate. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u76	Thank you, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would hear ten-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and a five-minute statement on behalf of the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Bolesław Piech, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u77	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I am to present a position regarding the information of the Prime Minister on the state's state of preparation for the growing wave of infection with SARS-CoV-2 and as a consequence of COVID-19 disease, as well as the situation where we have the seasonality of influenza. I must say that, with a 5-year break of almost 20 years, I am sitting in this House and rarely hear such a substantive, so sincere and with such great humility the speech of the Prime Minister, based mainly on facts - not on presumptions, not on any different examples of conflicting or extremes, but on what we know today exactly. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister has based his speech, his information on scientific facts, and these are scientific facts which constitute the scientific consensus of world experts in epidemiology, viralology. This is very important. There are many strange phenomena and strange comments in public space. As every Pole once knew about health care, so today everyone knows epidemiology, everyone knows what a COVID virus is, what a COVID-19 disease is, everyone has... Everybody's got it. ...appropriate prescriptions. I always listen, of course, in this so-called room. Sejm screamers who tell the news different, but I think this speech was very good. What we did - we know. We did what the world was prepared to do. The world did not know and knows the development of this epidemic, because no country in the world... And we're the best at this in Europe. ...no scientific institution, no institute today has invented measures that prevent epidemics, i.e. vaccines, because it was based on preventive vaccinations in the history of medicine to prevent epidemics, nor have they invented a cure, and - well, I'll be a skeptic - they won't find it soon, because 60 or 70 years we know how to build a virus and no one has invented a cure for the virus until today. And there was Ebola, and there was AIDS. We still don't have a cure for this type of virus, and we probably have to rely on that today. The Prime Minister said what were the strategies, and the Minister supplemented what had happened at the turn of September and October. Again, probably none of the experts in this scientific consensus assumed that these first months, these September-October days, would be the summit of the epidemic. The peak of the viral epidemic, e.g. flu, because this is such a concrete example, falls at the end of October, November, December, January, February. It's flu season. It's ahead of us. In this connection, it is very flexible to take various kinds of action and to speak of these actions with great courage and with great humility, because only one can shout who does not know the word: humility and thinks that the forces of nature that we are dealing with today are under our full control. Maybe they're like that in the gym, but they're based on the so-called. Overvalue ideas, and that's the cause for psychiatric research. I would like to say that what is important is the sharpening that we all feel. I don't like the mask, I wore the mask for 20 years in the O.R., and I didn't like it either. And I haven't met a surgeon who would question that you shouldn't wear a mask in the O.R. I don't know why. They didn't like her either. But I'm wearing this mask because it's the first stage of the possibility of putting a barrier to the spread of this virus. That's all I'm dealing with. And when you go to the hospital for...? The second point is the social distance. It's a difficult thing, too, because we're a society whose distance is clearly reduced, i.e. We like talking guy's a guy. We like it. Just like the fellas. Of course, there's also hand disinfection. We apply it in some way, too. Today we have to use special fluids that were not once required. But soap and water were always there and we used it, so for me it's not a sharpening. So these sharpenings in this social dimension must exist. The second type of sharpening, of course, is the tightening that strengthens our social distance, and they also address issues such as that the economy does not, of course, suffer or suffer as little as possible, so that it simply does not suffer, because we need to develop. We are a society that has its aspirations, has its expectations, and these expectations must be realized, and the essence, meaning and ability to meet these expectations, is work and jobs are an important element of defence against the fatal consequences of the pandemic. I would also like to talk about what is being done, and perhaps in an accelerated time. It is the preparation of hospital infrastructure so that we can take care of the sick, infected simply professionally and with some dignity. The Prime Minister made it clear that it was first about adapting certain departments, certain hospital beds in voivodship hospitals, in clinical hospitals, in county hospitals, and only in the last place about preparing the so-called. temporary hospitals, by some called field hospitals. We are also prepared - and this is a very important thing - for equipment for the most ill, or ventilators. We also need to create oxygen spaces. Not everyone in need of oxygen needs to be attached to a ventilator right away. These are tents, these are oxygen systems. It is a large undertaking and in field hospitals it cannot be achieved in any mass extent. This can be done on the basis of the hospitals we have today. And that's a very valuable point. It is also very important that hospital building entities: voivodships, marshals, starosts, cooperate with the government in developing this strategy. The last thing I would like to say - and this is also a very important thing - I spoke about this 3 hours ago when I was discussing this law, which also triggers the mobilisation of what is the essence of preventing and treating diseases, is the staff of medical staff. They were appreciated in a very clear way. I don't think in this 20-year story I've heard about the 200-percent raises, about honoring the people who are fighting the epidemic so strongly. I haven't heard of breaking or changing ZUS regulations so that they have completely different benefits if they get infected or have to be quarantined, and that doesn't mean they're infected. There must also be financial measures and these measures are of course ZUS-owskie. It is also important to say what I am very happy about, but it is very happy that these tasks will be put into dialogue. And it's not true that somebody's gonna force someone somewhere, but I think on the other side of the community, on the other side, which is health workers, there's full agreement. We doctors are called -- not forced -- to treat the sick, and we are sure to do so. Prime Minister! Thank you very much for this very reliable, presented with full humility, but also very substantive information. I think we have nothing but to accept this information, High Izbo. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u78	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u79	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Finally, you dared to face us after months of appeals, requests to take the pandemic problem seriously and beyond political divisions. You've been avoiding this debate because you've been taking care of yourselves. You fought for your stools, your influences, your money. Even in the last days of your office, you were able to pay employees record awards, and you left the Poles alone. Today there was another record of illness - more than 10,000. cases, 130 people died. People can't get through to the health department. The schools don't know what to do. Visits to specialists are cancelled. And you? And you're happy with yourself. First in Europe. You stand here like nothing ever happened, and you repeat all the lies you've been telling us for six months. Ten days ago, you said, "We have 900 ventilators. Today you say $3,000. When you lie - then or now? Unless you've made new purchases with another arms dealer because you're good at it. [[Applause]] You dare talk about reducing social contact. Ladies and gentlemen, it was Prime Minister Morawiecki who said: There is nothing to be afraid of, no pandemic, no meeting. After all, it was the government of Prime Minister Morawiecki who sent millions of texts to Polish seniors. Yes. The most important thing for you was to win the election. And then? After that, nothing mattered to you. Instead of a pandemic, you're fighting the truth, and the truth is, we've reached the wall. This is the opinion of doctors, hospital directors, paramedics, but you act as if their dramatic appeal to you didn't reach you. It's time to face reality. How many times have your government gathered in the last eight months? Do you know how busy they are? The government gathered 16 times, which means it gathered twice a month. The average Polish doctor spent more time working in a week than Prime Minister Morawiecki and his ministers for government meetings in the last 8 months. That's the truth about how you fight a pandemic. [[Applause]] Shame! Drama. Scandal. That's a lie. You want facts? Here you go, here's the fact from Saturday. On Saturday at Częstochowa City Hospital, 12 people were waiting for the S.R. to be found in infectious hospitals. So? There were no places in any of the hospitals that were listed by the voivode. And at the same time, your propaganda tube was talking about half the seats being free. Mr President, perhaps you could tell us how to make the number of diseases less. You want another truth? Quotes from the talk of medical rescuers: There are no solitaries in all of Warsaw. We can go somewhere else - I don't know where. Sochaczev? The gyrards? I would've steered you, but I really don't have a place, there's no way. In Minsk, in Garvolina, there are six to eight hours of ambulances in driveways. Do you hear that? But do you get that? Do you know how this situation ended? After more than five hours at the hospital staff's request, the ambulance crew left the patient in a wheelchair in the middle of the hallway. To this they were forced by your inability and terrible management of health care. And you're trying to tell us today that those people who spend a dozen hours a day in suits, saving people's lives, unable to go to the toilet, unable to eat a meal, that these people aren't getting involved enough that they're lying? Why, instead of supporting nurses, chamber nurses, paramedics, doctors, are you trying to shed responsibility for your mistakes and negligence on them? You've been successful lately. You were talking about him today, too, about building a field hospital at the National Stadium. You made the right decision, Prime Minister. Yeah, I'll give you that. Too bad it happened six months too late. If it were six months ago, maybe we wouldn't have heard about the ambulance driver from Garvolin who used to go to the rescue of others, and when he got sick with COVID himself, he died because for hours there was no place for him in any hospital. If you'd made that decision six months ago, maybe we wouldn't have heard of a patient waiting in an ambulance in the hospital driveway who had a stroke. And he couldn't even get a C.T. scan. But you're still saying that we did the best we could in the universe against the COVID. You remind me all the time how tragic the situation was in Italy, where doctors had to choose which patient to connect to a ventilator and to disconnect to make room for another. Are you saying we don't? These are more quotes: I have a patient with shortness of breath. Stęstna says it's closed, they sent a letter. They don't have personnel, they don't take them, and I'm suffocated by a patient. Did that lifeguard lie too? What's the difference? How dramatic is the choice which patient to take and which to send home? This is exactly what happens in Poland now because of your negligence, your whispering of reality. [[Applause]] And now, ladies and gentlemen, it won't be funny, although this quote sounds grotesque - a riddle for you: I have prepared plans for autumn. Now it's time for your vacation. The Minister, Łukasz Szumowski, spoke just those words when he left the Ministry in the aura of scandal. Shame. How did Poland prepare? What was the plan? I'll read you the heartbreaking words from social media: Dad and Grandpa had COVID. Grandpa died on Thursday, Dad died on Sunday. Dad's been sick for three weeks. No one came to see Dad, despite his begging. They didn't want to send an ambulance. All I was told was that there were no hospitals. My dad was weak, breathing harder, complaining of whole body pain. I could have accompanied him, standing under the balcony, serving food and waiting for the result. Dad died on Sunday. And there are dozens of these situations every day. Every day the life of someone's dad, someone's mom, but also his daughter or son, because more and more young people are getting sick, is threatened or dramatically ends in loneliness and torture. But there's room on paper. In the tables. Today you are asking for our help and admit that the crisis has outgrown you. Yes - I'm sorry - you didn't make it. But you know why? Because in times of crisis, responsible politicians are needed to manage the economy and health services. Yeah, we can do that. The Civic Platform and PSL conducted Poland through the biggest economic crisis in history. It was then, and not now, Prime Minister, that Poland was placed as a model. But you know why? Because we chose rationalism instead of populism. Knowledge of experts, not your kind of strategy: it'll work out. Responsible politicians use the expertise of experts, not fight them. Today, when the public sees you lying, you appeal to the opposition for cooperation. So I ask: Where were you when we put together 16 good billings? [[Applause]] Where were you when we made 120 Senate amendments? Where were you when we wanted to work together? I'll tell you where you've been. On vacation. You encouraged older people to go to the election. You encouraged me to underestimate the pandemic. You turned down every initiative we've ever taken, just to get us elected. But what initiatives? And after that, even death. But the Poles did not deserve to die with you. Therefore, I appeal to you: wake up. Give me some initiative. It is high time to look at what is happening in Poland, through the eyes of ordinary people. Not from the tinted windows of the limo, but from the eyes of the weakest, to the authentic, real world, full of human fears and uncertainty. The one that was heard in those tragic conversations I mentioned earlier. Yes, Prime Minister, it is time to ask Poles for solidarity, but also to say very clearly: Dear fellow countrymen, this government failed the exam. You're barely breathing on the ventilator. The rulers failed this exam because they thought it was possible not to care about human life, because ministers showed arrogance, shoes and shortsightedness. Because they were selling masks because they ordered overpaid ventilators. And then they wanted to guarantee themselves impunity. Yes, Prime Minister, you have good information, right here it says that solidarity is such a good vaccine. But solidarity, which must be understood well: empathy, mutual assistance, responsibility and self-control. Marshal, I'll be done in a minute. I still have this appeal, an appeal to you Poles: please, let us be kind to each other, let us take care of ourselves, let us take care of others. When we don't want to wear a mask in the shop (the bell), because we go in there for a while... You listened well to the Prime Minister. ... Let's think about the lady or the gentleman who's been exposed for a dozen hours. Let's think about the others. I know it's inconvenient, and I don't like warrants or prohibitions either, but in difficult times you have to be solidarity. You have to be honest. Finally, Prime Minister, so the Civic Coalition will work with everyone to help Poles. But we can't replace governments in action, we can't replace PiS in decision-making. That's for sure. Finally, we will not replace Prime Minister Kaczyński, who has been responsible for the safety, health and life of Poles since 6 October. However, we can share knowledge and experience. That's what I'm gonna do now. Prime Minister, I will hand over these 16 good billings to you, 120 amendments. I'm handing them over to you, believing you'll finally benefit from them. There are five pillars of the fight against the pandemic: 5 billion PLN for the fight against the epidemic, 100,000 PLN. tests a day, 10 million flu vaccines, reliable information about the state of health care. Go ahead and finish. And access to health care for patients with illnesses. But for God's sake, Prime Minister, finally read these proposals, for once listen to the experts of local government. Finish your work, sir. Talk to them, for once in view of the dramatic situation, health and safety of Poles, do something for the common good. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u80	Thank you, sir. You asked for the floor of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. He had 40 minutes...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u81	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm gonna start with a very short video. This is Mr Boris Budka. The Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki plays the recording from the telephone: From the expertise we have, it appears that this wave of pandemic... [[Game in the O.R.]] This is your level. You're ridiculous, Prime Minister. ...will end around the fall of this year. On this basis, we calculated a further electoral calendar. Shut up, 'cause we want to see. Calm down, please, calm down. Yeah, well, ladies and gentlemen, from the expertise that President Budek had... What are you happy about? We won this fight. ...I'd like to see these expertises - supposed to indicate that in the autumn there would be no more Coronavirus. Budka, what were you saying? Budka, don't lie to me. The election was supposed to take place in the fall. This is the first case. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow countrymen! The second thing is that we have to correct these few lies... How can you lie like that? ...because they should not be remembered in the way they were presented. First lie... Calm down, please. First issue: the Council of Ministers meetings. The Council of Ministers met in the form of the Government Emergency Management Team several dozen times. We meet every day. The minutes of these meetings are of course It's also done. So what? So this is a kind of manipulation and a lie. Point three: managing the past crisis. Dear entrepreneurs, do you know what it was like in the days of the Civic Platform? What past crisis? The chief ideologist of the Civic Platform, Mr Janusz Lewandowski, said yes. You weren't there? You advised. These words were memorable to me, he said: We were immune, so you were immune, to dramatic calls from economic circles to create stimulus packages. What was your job? Well, dear entrepreneurs, we weren't immune, we prepared these packages and saved you and your jobs. [[Applause]] That's how they managed this crisis. [[Game in the O.R.]] You're doing great with the Platform, too bad you're... I'm asking you to calm down. Fourth thing: they talk about health care, they talk about epidemics, they talk about infectious beds. How many infectious beds were there in 2015 at the time of the Civic Platform? You've been in charge for six years. Quiet! It was $3,000. infectious beds. There's over 18,000 today. infectious beds. How much did the nurse and midwife earn in the days of the Civic Platform? There was no epidemic. Do you have any idea how many of them had Coronavirus for Platforms? And that's at the end of 2015? 2500 PLN. Today it's about 2,000. more than in your day. It happened in five years. How much money was spent on health care in the days of the Civic Platform? Cordipine? Go. Don't embarrass me. What was Arłukowicz's strategy? Thank you so much for reminding me. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Marshal, shut him up. I'm asking you to calm down. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mr Budka, Mr President, thank you for reminding us of your strategy. Do you know what the Civic Platform strategy was? Prime Minister, but... Arłukowicz's strategy. You want 1 billion zlotys? Remove four hospitals and come for 200 million - he said to one voivode. [[Applause]] About! Prime Minister... It was your strategy: to liquidate hospitals, commercialize hospitals... [[Why don't you take care of the epidemic, not the Platform?]] [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] I'm asking you to calm down. ...so that, ladies and gentlemen, there will be fewer hospital beds. As the Civic Platform ruled, look what happened to the statistics. Aren't you ashamed? We've rebuilt health care. Best of all, ladies and gentlemen, this is one key figure. Who are you fighting, man? How much do we spend on health care today? Nearly 110 billion. Prime Minister... How much was it in the Civil Platform? Put the mask on, please. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015, it was only 77 billion. But don't embarrass me. People are listening. That's all I could answer to those lies that fell from that speaker, as well as what the president said about the fall wave. People are dying, and you're lying from the platform. But I'm gonna end up like this: I've corrected the lies, but I'm still reaching out... In our pocket, I think. Yeah, to ours. ... Because, as I said, until the vaccine is invented, there must be agreement, there must be solidarity. No government has ever broken up people like PiS. We want to work with all those who are people of good faith who are looking for good solutions. That's why in our bill that we're bringing here today... And this is one of the COVID laws, which in turn responds to genuine needs, and not - in such a way presented reality as it was here that Mr Budka tried to present. So, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of all these defiances, we extend our hand to consent. It's time to make peace. It's time to make peace. Ha, ha, ha! Mr. Brudziński will read. Solidarity and time for consent so that Poles can get the best of the epidemic. This is not funny, Mrs Bell. Thank you very much, Prime Minister. But he has the right to speak. It's not funny. There's nothing to laugh about, sir. Today is the time to make peace... No, not anymore. The corrigendum of Mr.... ...and that's why we're pulling out the consent hand. Thank you. [[Applause]] Mr. Brudziński will read.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u82	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. However, I would ask that in these speeches we refer to today's topic, so that we discuss today's situation in health care. In corrigendum mode. In the mode of correcting Mr Boris Budka. It's a good thing Sasin's here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u83	Thank you very much. Prime Minister! Turn on the TVP Info and see how the agreement and agreement are built there... You've been performing for ten minutes. ...or the number of lies per second beats any record. I'll give you the data you were talking about. Years 2005-2007, Prime Minister Kaczyński... ...10 billion. ... 4470 hospital beds removed. Years 2007-2015, Prime Minister Tusk and Prime Minister Kopacz - 12 thousand. more hospital beds. The source, please. TVP Info. And again, the years 2015-2018 - 5262, so many beds less for your governments. That's not true! Lie! And the other thing... What's with the data? GUS. You've got something like a GUS. I know I'm gonna say CUS and you're gonna take over CUS so that this data doesn't exist, but calmly, while the CUS is still here, it's served. And the other thing, Your Marshal, about the construction of hospitals. Years 2005-2007... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Go ahead and finish it, sir. ... 33 hospitals less. Years 2007-2015... Your marshal, time's up. Go ahead and finish it, sir. ... 208 hospitals more. Thank you very much. The last few years - the inheritance again. These are real data. Thank you very much. I just have a favor to ask... Turn it off, Marshal. ...don't dismiss the president of the CSO for this data, okay? [[Applause]] To cover it up.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u84	Thank you very much. I wanted to ask you all very much to remain calm. Please take the floor of Mr Włodzimierz Czarasty, Parliamentary Club of the Left. And I'm really asking you to calm down and stop your emotions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u85	It's not gonna be quiet. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Prime Minister, Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński! Mr. Matthew Morawiecki! I'm addressing both of you because I don't know which one of you is really in charge. We know that. I've been asking you a tough question for a month about who you're gonna unplug from the ventilator when they're gone. We'll never unplug anyone. You don't have an answer, but you already know it's important. Then I'm going to ask you a few questions today so no one, Prime Minister, asked me that. Does the government know how energy will work in Poland when the crews of energy companies are decimated by Coronavirus? Do we know who will make sure that Polish houses flow electricity? Does the government know who will deliver gas to Polish houses when the workers in gas and water supply are decimated? Sasin. Does the government know who's gonna take care of the food supply? Are you ready for the worst? Have you done everything you are legally obliged to do in our country to provide food and water supply, road and street safety, protection from attacks on our homes and apartments, electricity supply, gas and other energy resources, fuel supply such as petrol, diesel, system heat supply and individual coal supply; to ensure continuity of communication services and efficient ICT networks; to provide access to our money and continuous financial services; to work transport services, including efficient roads and public transport; to operate municipal services, including waste collection, maintenance of cleanliness in cities; to ensure the protection of speculation and in situations necessary to create a system of regulation of products and services necessary for life; to operate rescue services; to ensure continuity of the operation of all public services, including the Police and public administration? I'm sure you're surprised that the prime ministers are personally and constitutionally responsible for so many things and areas, but they are. You're just responsible for this. Therefore, further questions. Do you have an up-to-date report on national security threats? You don't. Unless you find out on the phone that you do. As you say, I'm not answering on the phone. There's a rule. Dad should teach. Of course we do. Do you have a pandemic national critical infrastructure protection programme? You don't. Are you asking if he's responding? Have you made sure that there are regional, district and municipal crisis management plans? You didn't take care of it. You allowed it, Mr. Macierewicz, and you know it. And yet NIK has recently stated that Poland does not have an effective civil protection system. Do you even know what I'm talking about? Do you know that there are plans for such reports? He's on the phone. As an administration, have you made conversations and arrangements with private food manufacturers, with the owners of energy, gas, transport and communications infrastructure? With heat and water suppliers, with the financial sector? SLD Wish Concert. You already know you're supposed to be talking to private medical services because you started doing this a week ago. I ask these questions, although I practically know the answer to them. The answer is no. You haven't done anything to keep us prepared for the worst. To war. The existing national security threat report is based on an assessment of the risks - note - from 2013. The new report was to be adopted in the third quarter of 2020. Was it accepted, Prime Minister, Prime Minister Kaczyński, Prime Minister Morawiecki? It's still the third quarter. I don't want it to be. I'm giving you the material for immediate thought, because I want to help you. You won't have to steal our ideas. Oh, please. Take it and take advantage of it all. Is there a public communication strategy? There isn't. People need to know, people have a right to know what's going to happen to them. Wake up, because the lights could go out in government buildings and your apartments, too. Thank you. Don't scare the citizens of the COVID War.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u86	Please, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We listened to the Prime Minister and, as usual, we found out that it was okay. Everything's under control. It is. The truth is, it's bad and it's gonna get worse. The Prime Minister has decided to do it. Today the circus on the platform, show something from the tablet. I wish, Prime Minister, that you have such an uproar in the fight against the virus with which you respond to Members here. There's no beds in the whole country, and you say nothing's going on. Yesterday in Krakow, Mr. Roman spent seven hours in an ambulance driving from hospital to hospital. 83-year-old Mrs Barbara from Warsaw learned that she could count on the test on Friday. Today's Wednesday. There's no equipment, and medical personnel are working practically without sleep. Hundreds of people are dying, not just on COVID. You forgot the others. You told me to call off the operation. People die, and your politicians say it has to be. It's true. Death doesn't choose, but the truth is, people die because of you. Everyone in the last few months has said we're afraid of the Italian script. Except you gave the Poles a Polish script. You had six months to get ready. You didn't do anything. Instead of working, you argued who would cast more ministries. For four months, you were reconstructing because Mr. Zbyszek had an argument with Mr. Matthew, and we had to make things right. You were like kids in the sandbox. You drowned 70 million in elections that didn't happen. You guys made it happen. In comparison, the budget of the Chief Sanitary Inspector, the key service to combat the pandemic, is 50 million a year. You didn't work on your own, but you didn't want to count on others either. The Left has given you projects many times. We've reported more than 1,000 from this podium. amendments. We gave you a plan safe from the second wave. We offered $100,000. tests a day. It's okay. We proposed to open access points throughout Poland, even the map we made. Why did you do that? You're panicking. $2 billion for health care. What are you guys You put it on propaganda TV. We wanted training for staff, re-training for doctors. We heard you were panicking. We called for the purchase of the flu vaccine refund. Today the Prime Minister said: we have a lot of them. We'll see in two weeks. We offered a crisis benefit of 2,1 thousand. zł. But why? Those who lose their jobs, let them lose their jobs. They'll be fine. Finally, we wanted the schools to prepare in such a way that the kids didn't have to worry, their parents and grandparents, that they were going to get infected. This is where the Minister has been sitting. No, it's okay. Yeah, it's okay that you had to show your stats today. You, Prime Minister, said everything was fine. Aren't you ashamed of that? Do you really have a conscience to tell Poles that it's so good? Then why is it so bad? When Poland is standing over the abyss, you call for caution. You spoke today about solidarity. Unfortunately, you set rules for ordinary people. You yourselves are an elite and you have built a state here for yourselves. You guys are never gonna be in line for the test. Your ambulance will always have a place to drive. There'll always be a bed and a ventilator at the hospital. You don't know the word solidarity you're talking about. You can only think of your own business. Prime Minister! Do you know that there are 1.4 thousand for all of Poland? Ambulance? But your government, state institutions, they have 4,000. Limo. Ambulances save lives, and limousines save lives? Do you know that there's over $1,000 infected with the coronavirus from the start? Doctors, over 3,000. Nurses and midwives? Instead of thanking the medics for their sacrifice, you're trying to blame them for your mistakes and stupidity. That's who you are. You want to get out of the crisis by blaming others, yesterday on opposition politicians, a few days ago on doctors. You're gonna say it's the sick. Just add that maybe it's because they didn't eat apples. But you failed, no one else. The fact that millions of Polish families will lose family members is your fault. The fact that hundreds of thousands are losing their jobs and they're not gonna have rent money is your fault, too. Your mistakes, your omissions and your arrogance are paid by Poles and Poles today, but someday it will be time to settle. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You will be accounted for for all the words, for the irresponsibleness, for the lack of strategy, for the lack of an idea of how to fight the coronavirus. Secrets, not threats. The government cannot ensure the safety of its citizens and is not fit to rule. And that's the fact for today. A government that puts its citizens' health and lives at risk should be brought to justice. This is the truth about the last six months. Therefore, as a club of the Left, we make a formal motion to reject this sad, banal and false information of the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u88	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u89	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! In order to make a good diagnosis and implement treatment, you need to know the patient's history, you need to examine him physically, you need to do an interview. What is the history of our fight as a Polish country with a coronavirus? The ruling in January: the epidemic is very far away, in China, it may not happen to Poland at all. In February: we are prepared for everything, for every scenario and variant. In March: no one expected such a scale, we did not expect this epidemic to affect us so much. In May it was already the celebration of triumph: the best in Europe. In June: victory over the coronavirus. On vacation: the virus in the back is already less pathogenic. In September, the key words of Andrzej Duda: we control the epidemic, we control the epidemic. You've lost control of the state, you've lost control of the epidemic. And that's an accusation. This is an indictment not made by us politicians, not by the opposition. This is an act. Indictments made by thousands of new diseases every day and hundreds of deaths. This is the indictment that's gonna haunt you. Every day. As an opposition today, as citizens of the Republic of Poland, how can we trust the Prime Minister's words? I remember calling for cooperation in March. We all responded positively to this appeal, as we are here. I attended all the meetings at the Prime Minister's office, with the president, with the ministers. And how did it end with the first crisis shield? About an hour. At 2 a.m., a drop-off that eliminates the Social Dialogue Council and introduces a 60+ correspondence vote. The drop that even Prime Minister Emilevich was talking to me on the phone at the time, she didn't know. And all of this, these relationships, building a community, fighting together, was ruined. To move on, one word is missing today, Prime Minister, the key one. Not to us, because we're politicians, we can argue here, discuss here, but to sick people, doctors, nurses, paramedics, social workers, expeditions in shops, to society as a whole. "I'm sorry" wasn't enough. Not for mistakes, because at such a difficult time, I understand, they can happen, but for the fact that the discussion about LGBT on holidays was more important that the division of loot and the desire of power won with common sense, that politics you do not treat as a prudent care for common good, but as a tribal struggle, which is to divide and finish Poland and Poles. It's the word "sorry" that never detracts value or demeans honor, but it's a measure of greatness. And that word was lacking, just as the words of appreciation for doctors, nurses, which you cannot always express or quite the contrary, because Prime Minister Sasin said something completely different. Words can kill, words can hurt, but words, e.g. for the patient, they also give hope and restore life. Prime Minister, during this first wave of battle, you used the pandemic cynically to promote Andrzej Duda. At the time, every decision was made at the president's request, all the staff were under his supervision. Poland did not function without blinking the President's eye, and today it is gone. There was a lot of stupidity in the laws that you made back then. It's delusional. For 70 million for elections, all residents of Lodz, Andrychów or Aleksandrów Lodzki could be examined. You couldn't have made restrictive records of doctors. On the one hand, you say "let's all get involved" and you send this message to the citizens, and on the other hand, you introduce sharpenings in the Penal Code, which give absolute prison to doctors and impunity+ to officials. You have also introduced solutions, pushed them sideways, under which today are built houses of single-family houses in the huts of landscape parks as isolation. We need to get out of this. What's the status of the patients today? There's 10,000. infected, there are hours in the ambulance queues, there is despair of medical workers, loss of physical and mental health, exhaustion in this regard. There are bonuses for ministers in ministries, officials' offices, and there are no bonuses for heroes. There are no such solutions that would appreciate such hardworking people. Despite many disappointments, we are ready for this cooperation, but it must be based on truth, not propaganda. Cooperation based on truth, not promoting pandemics or propaganda festivals, how well we deal with it. We are ready for this cooperation, just as the opposition has declared today, because it is a shared responsibility that we must not sacrifice on the altar the political goal of life and health. So what are we proposing? Firstly, in the area of health care: maintaining the efficiency and efficiency of hospitals. Hospitals, to save lives, have to live on their own, have to function. If they stop doing this, all the other shields will never work. Private health is needed for this. Good thing that's what Minister Niedzielski said. But we're proposing something else. In private hospitals, in private offices - and these places are 33,000, over 400 hospitals, over 40,000. Specialized offices - we treat those patients who suffer from cancer, civilizational diseases, diabetes, hypertension who want to diagnose, treatment in other cases, not only with COVID-19. Every day 452 people are diagnosed with cancer, cancer is diagnosed. Every day, 272 people die of cancer. These sick people can't be left alone. Private offices - open for free because they are to be paid by the government. There is to be treatment at the expense of the government, because today health care, public health care is inefficient in the treatment of other diseases. That's point one. The second point - appreciation in the form of a hero bonus for those who are on the front line, all medical professionals, all health professionals, all hospital workers and social and social workers. Third thing - education. We warned against the Israeli scenario of the fact that in Israel, of 20 cases after the opening of schools within a few weeks... the schools were closed. Then there was a hat and laughing. Fighting the epidemic is not pleasant decisions, it is not public decisions, they are often difficult decisions. But in August, you didn't think it was gonna happen. It is the heads of schools and local government, not the health department, that should long decide what teaching they use: whether remote or hybrid. Because it'll stop the transmission. We don't have one fire in Poland today. It's not like after the wedding in Nawojowa or after the events in the mine. Today, this transmission is invisible and we don't know the place or the fire. This is the next point. A regional approach, a conversation with local governments, a consultation and such an action that does not appoint us and does not order us to do anything solely and exclusively, but also asks for help from social organisations, foundations. That's what's missing. In the economy we expect, demand and demand to stop all work on tax-raising laws, withdraw from the law that brings people to the street because they are desperate because they will lose their jobs, withdraw from five against Polish agriculture. It's about releasing ZUS and introducing a voluntary ZUS. Commercial Sundays should be restored during the epidemic to protect seniors to give them a chance. Saving the economy must be based on systemic actions that will not be undertaken ad hoc but thought out. Finally, let's write a common pandemic plan because it's just missing. You're throwing yourself from wall to wall. The best example is the masks. How are you gonna convince Mr. Braun and Mr. Bosak to wear masks when your Minister of Health said they didn't give anything that they didn't protect? Then he said you have to wear them to invent the vaccine. But there came a message from Nowogrodzka that there will be elections - you only have to wear for a few more days, and then you have to go to elections. There is no credibility, there is no strategy and there is no consistency. That is why 30% of citizens either don't believe it or are very skeptical about the spread and presence of the virus at all. My dears! One more thing, an appeal not to the Prime Minister now, but to the episcopate, to the hierarchs of the Catholic Church. The Day of All Saints is coming, then the Day of Souls. All through November... Let's do that so that we don't just go to the graves first and second. Give a clear signal to the faithful that this year it is better to wait, it is better to go a few days later, not exactly 1 or 2 November. It's very important that we get out of this. The government lost control of the pandemic, the role of the Ringtone in order to ensure security, lost control of the state. Today, I don't see the power in the rulers to restore this control on their own. That is why I address my fellow countrymen: my dear ladies and gentlemen, all the citizens of the Republic, today we are able to restore control of the state, to control the situation with our responsibility, brotherhood, to base our relations and our activities on knowledge, not on some rumor or fake news. I'm asking you all to be responsible. If the government has lost control, we citizens will restore control of the state, of the epidemic. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u90	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u91	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister, I must say that you inspired me because you released Mr. Boris Budka's recording a few months ago. I've got this video here, too. That's the video we're gonna start with. I'm letting go. Arthur Dziambor plays the recording from the tablet: There is nothing to be afraid of. Most people here already, I see, are without masks. Because, in fact, all this disease was fortunately eradicated, it's under control, it's just like the others. There are many different diseases, we won't be afraid to spare them, the government won with the coronavirus. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] It's not him. He couldn't have said that. It's not him. There are many different diseases, we won't be afraid to spare them, the government won with the coronavirus. Prime Minister, you are the biggest hypocrites and cynics in the history of Polish politics. We're leaders. And you, Prime Minister, are at the forefront of this harlotry. Six months ago, with a few hundred infected people, you closed the woods, closed the parks, and made people sit in their homes for two or three months. You shut down companies, you shut down people's ability to make money, then you created anti-crisis shields. The anti-crisis shields were based not on the fact that there was some consultation with the entrepreneurs, but on the team that created these anti-crisis shields were PiS politicians who were not based on their experiences, but on the statement: we think that this is how we should be helped. Thousands of companies went bankrupt, suspended their business. Thousands of workers have either been fired or their salaries have been cut or have been forced to sign annexes to the salary reduction by the end of this year, e.g. up to 60%. You said you were putting the economy at risk to buy time. You wanted to prepare us for the next wave or what's going on right now. Well, how'd you prepare? We're in the middle of a discussion, and you can see how you've prepared it. Today, 10,000 were detected. new cases of disease. You didn't prepare. What happens in hospitals clearly shows that you just didn't prepare. You were just wondering how to reconstruct the government, who's gonna be the new minister of what. A great reconstruction, a great reduction, a reduction, which ended with the fact that you've already created three new offices and actually nothing big happened there except some minor remodeling. During these six months, you haven't even been able to make the restrictions so that it's legal, and that's why we're criticizing and denying it. Today I asked here: Will the mandates that were illegally issued be cancelled? Now that you're introducing a law here today that says that the masks will have to be worn, that means that everything that happened before was illegal. Cancel these tickets for people, then it'll be fair. I want it to sound clear. What you did with those lockdowns is a crime in the Polish economy. What you've done to people running their own businesses is an unforgivable mistake, catastrophic. We have a record-breaking budget deficit at the moment. We have the biggest decline in GDP in 30 years. Unfortunately, it won't be done because you've been eating through the years that were good. This is something that your entire government and anonymous advisors have been asking about, but unfortunately, their names are unable to obtain from you, they will have to be held accountable to the courts one day. We'll never give it to you. Poles won't give it to you because Poles see what's happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u92	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Prime Minister! In the first words of my speech, I would like to greet those who are protesting in defence of their jobs, who are trying to survive during this difficult time epidemics and sanitary sharpenings, but also economic sharpenings. I would like to greet here farmers who are coming out today, protesting against killing Polish breeding, killing Polish exports, killing Polish agriculture. I would also like to say hello to the sports industry, which was hoping that it would be treated like others, and today it is losing hope that it will be able to function and survive the second wave of epidemics. I would like to greet the owners of limited partnership companies who simply want to run their business and survive a difficult time, but your government has decided to finish off their additional unsuspected tax. These people deserve to have the names of those groups that protest and want to survive, fallen from this speaker and to remind them that the Polish economy is not doing so bad, it is not because of the Prime Minister, it is not because of the officials, it is not because of the Polish economy. even those who pay benefits from the financial shield. That's the credit. Millions of hard-working Poles and hundreds of thousands of business people who think every day about how to survive this difficult time and the government throws logs at their feet. In these laws, which you are supposedly introducing today to save the situation in health care, which is blamed by your five-year negligence, you are again hitting Polish entrepreneurs. You are introducing the possibility of punishing entrepreneurs on the pretext of breaking the sanitary regime. Just one small (Bingle) punishment, one small ticket for not wearing a mask, and the possibility of spending money on a financial shield is in doubt. This is an outrage, which you're trying to push through in these regulations, and not the first. The same is true of doubts about limited companies. If the commando companies try to transform, what about the financial shield? Mr Paul Boris answered that it would not be necessary to return it, but it is not the answer of Mr Paul Boris or even the PFR communication that is binding. The contracts are binding. Thank you very much. The law is binding. Therefore, I appeal on behalf of all those affected by your restrictions: stop disturbing them and let people survive this crisis and take care of what is important, namely health protection.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u94	Thank you very much. And here you are, Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, non-attached Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u95	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! As Zygmunt Bauman said, the strength of the bridge is measured by its weakest bay. Because there are a lot of words about solidarity here today, I want to focus on one very specific problem. I want to be the voice of those you don't usually hear, or the voice of over 30,000. homeless people who in this system at the moment have to fit in somehow during the epidemic. They don't fit. We, as Poland 2050, have daily contact with organizations that run accommodation establishments, which run shelters. These shelters and accommodation facilities operated in closed mode during the epidemic in spring, but now, at this moment very many people who live outside of them are reporting. A lot of homeless people are looking for shelter in shelters and shelters. And there's a problem who's supposed to pay for their tests, who's supposed to quarantine them. Because one person infected in a shelter that has 150 people can really cause the kind of disaster that we're dealing with very often in social services homes. This is where the voivodships are pushing each other when it comes to the issue of responsibility, with the municipalities. A good example is Gdansk, who, without waiting for the competence to be established, who is to carry out this obligation, has already actually built containers for temporary isolation. And that's where it works very well, but it's a self-government initiative. So I'd like to ask the Prime Minister, the Minister... Well, that's good. It's the government's job. ... Because the minister's spokesperson told the TV crew who asked him that the tests were free and anyone could do them. And I picked up the phone and I called the NFZ, and I asked what I could do to do a free test so available to an uninsured person. And you know what I heard? That I have to go to the doctor's first contact because an uninsured person has to be insured to do this test. So for a homeless man, these tests are really not available. I wanted to ask what the government would do to keep people from freezing this winter in the streets during a pandemic, homeless people. Because this problem needs to be solved very urgently, and organisations running shelters and accommodation sites are looking forward to this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u96	Thank you very much, Member. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki wanted to speak. Maybe you can play your video.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u97	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It's worth a few of these lies and lies to correct. Well, the reports of the CSO that Mr Boris Budk referred to clearly state that in 2012 you changed your statistics and switched branches into hospitals. So something that wasn't a hospital before, [[Applause]] It suddenly became a hospital. That's the only reason why Mr. Chairman could quote something like that here. Not much of this, from the report of the CSO, note: Due to legal changes - the law on medicinal activities - having an impact on the way of separating and registering establishments, including hospitals, data on the number of hospitals are incomparable with data from previous years. The number of hospitals refers to undertakings or separate organisational units of undertakings in which the medicinal entity carries out a medical activity of the type of fixed and 24-hour hospital health services. Etc. The whole thing explains your manipulation here just now. So, point one... And the beds, too. ...correction. You can see it very clearly in the CSO. So who manipulated this data in 2012? 3 million vaccines. This is the first case. Step 2. Mr Budka's Civic Platform Party is a party of social Darwinism. It's a party that didn't care about the weak, for which social programs, for which taking care of weaker people... And who did you advise? ...about people being treated in hospitals in a decent way didn't matter. I'm reminding you of Arłukowicz's strategy that he was talking to the voivode about closing four hospitals. How else can we justify and prove it? Well, in a very simple way. It's just because you've only dealt with those... The COVID needs to be taken care of, not the Platform. ...who had strength in the economy, were strong, not those who needed social assistance, treatment. The level of resources allocated to health care is very clear in this regard. And that's why today in such a strange coalition of the Confederation and the Civic Coalition, the Confederation and the Civic Platform together, all of a sudden. And some, by ignoring how dangerous this pandemic is to our economy, and others who seek to close everything immediately, are a serious danger to our country, a serious danger to the entire Polish economy. It's a lie. And now my words. Ladies and gentlemen, look at the graph of the fall of infection in June and remember what we all wanted then. And how many tests were there? We wanted to open up the economy, increase trade, international trade, services. Vacation! And that's when you had to fight for the economy, take care of the economy, because how long, 2, 3 months can the economy be completely frozen? Of course not. Therefore, at the end of June, in July, as we took care of the return of normal medical and hospital services, as Minister Niedzielski said, we also cared that in the third quarter the Polish economy would move back from the hooves. And that's what happened. That's what happened. Yes, sir. And so today we have a better starting point, an economic starting point for the next months, the next quarters. Now Mr Dziambor - unfortunately he was wrong about the highest deficit. It was at the time of the Civic Platform, between 2009 and 2010, that the deficit not only exceeded PLN 100 billion, but in proportion to GDP - and all economists know that first of all we have to look at the ratio to GDP - it was 7,58%. Today, this is far less due to economic growth. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow countrymen! To those who are threatening the state of the economy, I want to say, tell - maybe I should say - one curiosity. We have recently managed to place bonds on markets with negative profitability, and this means an increase in Poland's economic credibility on international markets. There is no better way to verify credibility than by different international and national entities with their own money for bond issues that have never been so valued in international markets, so good for us. This shows how the world looks at our economic development. Now we're talking about lockdown. This is Mr Kosiniak-Kamish and others talking about lockdown. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, we must learn to live, work, educate without a total lockdown, although we do not know what decisions will have to be made. Today, the Czech Republic is deciding on a de facto almost complete lockdown. Yesterday I read about Ireland, which says that you have to do almost total lockdown, in some areas deeper than spring. That is why we are expanding the bed base, we are expanding the number of hospitals - not those fictional, statistical ones that Mr Budka spoke about, but the actual ones. Mr Charzasty is no longer here, but I would also like to say that the wording was completely false. And besides, please don't call us per... Your Majesty? ...because this is a custom from the previous era, from the Polish People's Republic, and today we live in a free country. [[Applause]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the statistics that have been presented here by the various speakers, in short words I showed you what's behind them, if there's truth behind them. Go to Biłgoraj, to Ryków. Ask there about hospitals that were liquidated in your time. You don't say roar. You say roar. Dear fellow countrymen, not only do I not deny, but with the highest degree of compassion and respect for all those who, in the current state of development of the epidemic, experience the problems, the harm that we hear about, which we know are... Everything we do is known to improve the functioning of the entire health system. The whole system is hospitals - including hospitals under marshals and city presidents. Hospitals are not subject to you. I don't know if most of them are, but I'm sure they're not under the government, including the county hospitals that are in the hospital network. However, the government organises its work in such a way as to ensure that it is as accessible as possible. In addition to hospitals and beds, which at the time of the Civic Platform at the end of 2015 - beds for patients with infectious diseases - there were 3 thousand, today it is over 18 thousand, medical doctors are also needed. That's why I thank the medics. I'm also asking everyone to be as close as possible to their patients. At the same time, I answer to the President or President Kosiniak-Kamish, who spoke about the award or non-premium. It is in the law that we propose to the High House that we increase from 50% to 100%. bonuses for all doctors who serve with patients. So she's not just here. Ladies and gentlemen, we can do this because public finances are in good shape. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]] Mr Owl, I warn you. But he's lying. I'm warning you, too. This is because at the right time, in June and July, we unfreeze the economy. That's not true. All this is unfortunately a system of connected vessels. On the one hand, there is an increase in the number of infections, the problems associated with the epidemic, on the other hand, we have issues relating to the economy, taxation, budget, investment. We are trying to keep the economy in the best condition possible. Our data, which you compare with data from the European Union, confirm that so far this balance, the path of the measure is working better than in many other cases. Thank you. [[Applause]] Corrigendum.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u98	Thank you very much. Corrigendum. Mr Budka, the corrigendum. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u99	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This isn't your best day. A few specific numbers. Number of hospital beds in 2016,218 250. 2020 - a drop of 20,000. $20,000. You've reduced the number of hospital beds. There's even worse data. The rescue teams in 2015 were 597, in 2020 - 388. And finally the number of pharmacies - a drop from 15 thousand. Up to 14,000. The waiting time for a doctor's visit increased from 2.5 hours in 2015 to 4 hours. Finally, if you refer to famous tapes, then you told Poles what to do for a bowl of rice. You're the last person to quote the words that came out there. That's not true. Shame, shame, Prime Minister. And so that Kubica breaks down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u100	Mr Nitras, I warn you. You've been in the way all day. Mr Kosiniak-Kamish. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u101	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! You have noted well that our project concerns all doctors - PLN 1500 for doctors, nurses, all doctors and social workers - and your project concerns only those who will be directed to the work of the voivod. There's $9 million reserved there. That's not true. It's not just... Our solutions are meant to apply to everyone. They are expensive - 900 million a month - but this is a salary for those who work on the front line. You guys in your bill talk about those you're gonna put to work, and we're talking about those who've been working since March. Consider our solution, because it is common, systemic and applies to all those who have been fighting the coronavirus for over six months. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u102	Does Mr Gawkowski want to correct what Mr Czarzasty said here?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u103	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You, I understand, have a problem with saying we or you. I promise the Prime Minister, when you come out here, I'll say elite. The elite of this country, an elite who cannot ensure that there are places in hospitals to have masks... But what do you make up, sir, what do you make up? ...so that we can have the proper health care so that the sanatoriums and social services work. Elite. No solidarity. Mr. Marshal... That's the least of the charges we should be charging you today. But a corrigendum. You're complaining about us sharing. Prime Minister, last week on Tuesday, not so long ago, I presented four draft laws to you. You said we'd talk. I wanted to ask you, Prime Minister, what about the other three? Can we help entrepreneurs in the red zones? How about we help people who lose their jobs? Why don't you lean on us to help schools so we can tell you we have more money for laptops? Can we lean on it? Three bills, not too much? We're gonna hand them over again today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Goodbye. Recall the debate on the 2003 budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u104	You're making yourself straight. Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u105	Ladies and gentlemen! One piece of information needs a firm correction. As far as the salaries of doctors are concerned, it is not only those who will be directed by the voivode who will receive a bonus or an allowance in the form of twice the salary, but also all doctors who are currently working with COVID patients in hospitals and individuals appointed to do so. The Minister of Health already in March issued an order to the National Health Fund, in which this supplement was set at exactly the same level as for doctors aimed at fighting COVID. And now, as soon as the bill eventually comes in after the vote and 200 percent of the salary is fixed, the Minister of Health will, of course, order the National Health Fund to pay the medical staff... What about the medical staff? ...not in referral mode for this job. Where are the nurses, the paramedics? Second thing. And I'd like to say it here, too. The oncology that Mr. Kosiniak-Kamish was talking about is also a field that... During the whole summer, as I emphasized in my speech, we tried to maintain continuity and stability of the work of oncology. At the moment, the situation is that all oncology units are excluded from all COVID loads, which means they don't even declare any beds to fight COVID. This is a certain island we want to guard because of government policy priorities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u106	Thank you very much. Let's get to the questions. 23 persons, Members and Members have joined the questions at the moment. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting a question time for one minute. As the first Member, Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister! In fact, we should start by correcting all the other data that were quoted. I'm just gonna say one number. Mr President, in 2015 a foreign entity was operating on the Polish market in medical rescue. You have often had to translate yourself from various types of lack of coordination between the State Medical Rescue and the private one. And I think it's a good thing that we've sorted this out together in the days of law and justice. So much for history. And you did. On the other hand, Prime Minister, Minister, very good, factual speech, very congratulations. I think it is still worth mentioning the data concerning, for example, the additional hospitals that will be created. And, ladies and gentlemen, I regret, it is sad that in such an important matter (the bell) there were not only screams from the platform, but also... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] Lies can be heard.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u108	Thank you very much. Member of the Commission, Marshal Margaret Kidawa-Błońska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Today is 21 October 2020. Since March we know that the pandemic has been in our country, and today you devote a lot of time to the history of what was 5, 6, 10 years ago. I was hoping to learn from your speech today how the government used that time and what he did so that I could tell the citizens what they were going to do, what the procedures were. Six points. I remind you that when I first said that there was a pandemic, I heard that I was scaring Poles. As we talked about the tests, I heard I was hysterical. Then I heard that it was good that there was a beginning in other countries, because we will be better prepared for this in Poland. So? Today's speech by the Prime Minister and no good information for Poles. They're really afraid to sleep at night because they don't know... They're not only afraid of coritos, but they're afraid of simple appendicitis or heart attack because they don't know if the ambulance's coming after them. And that is the real problem of Poles. And for those questions, [[♪ The bell ♪]] You didn't answer today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! You're saying you're developing a bed base. Oh, yeah, that's right. You took 34 geriatric beds from the Wolski Hospital in Warsaw, and now you want to receive beds of patients from the Neuropsychiatric Hospital in Lublin. Both were funded by WOŚP - WOŚP, which during the period of total collapse of psychiatry of children and youth bought 798 beds and gave them 34 branches in Poland. Prime Minister! Minister! I have a question: Who else are you gonna take away the hospital beds, what kind of patients you're gonna take away from proper treatment, because instead of planning a pandemic strategy and preparing a plan for the second wave, you've been fighting for stools and mitigating internal conflicts, and you've been bullshitting citizens about how you're not well prepared? Why didn't you plan your medical orders before? But the Prime Minister told me about it. ...especially since all equipment purchased by WOŚP is produced in Poland, is available in Polish factories? Were such orders placed (the bell)... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u112	Mr Marek Sawicki, club of the Polish People's Party. You're welcome. Madam, you have finished your speech, please leave the stand. Madam, do you understand what I'm saying to you? Mrs... Let me finish. But how do I finish? There's a minute or there isn't. Ma'am, please step out of the podium. Let me finish. Step out of the podium, will you? Step out of the podium, please. Don't cut it. Well, then come down, please. But you must be an unhappy man. Thank you. I'm quite well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Digitization Minister! Mr. Minister of Health! The resident doctor asks how many nurses, doctors, nurses, doctors you trained to handle COVID patients and COVID equipment since March this year. The doctor with 30 years of experience informs that in January, in February in Warsaw 3 thousand were performed monthly. mammography, March - 300. These are serious threats you're not responding to. And what a bad thing he's told you to bring in the so-called "coronavirus" during this difficult time. Five Kaczyńskis, a law imposing an embargo on Polish farmers, on Polish agriculture, and dragging them to Warsaw for a month, on roads where the conditions of quarantine, isolation conditions are not really preserved? What's the matter with you? What's wrong with you guys? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u114	Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u115	Prime Minister! Before you came to the Sejm, you told the media that these regulations from this next specialty were necessary to fight the virus. Then please say: What has kept you from introducing these rules so far? You announced that in Katowice the hospital will be created in the International Congress Centre, and yet in Katowice there is a free hospital on the street. The brick, which is not contracted, stands empty, to be taken from now on. That's where we're gonna do the convention center. The situation is similar in many other places. Who's gonna make money out of this? Why are you doing this? Why are you crowding hospitals with people with mild symptoms while they really don't need it, and then whining that you don't have a place in hospitals? If you take only those who really need care, there will be no problem with the availability of hospital facilities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u116	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, independent. There isn't. There is no Member. Mr Bolesław Piech, Law and Justice. Isn't there one? Mr Marcin Kierwiński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u117	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! After listening to this information, one question can actually be asked: Do you deliberately lie to Poles, do you really not know anything and control anything? Do you really believe those words you're saying? The most shocking words are about ventilators. You name the numbers here: 2,000. respirators free, 45% Placements, when it comes to the ones that are sent to hospitals and people are dying because they can't wait for a ventilator. You're the one who's saying you keep ventilators in storage, and you don't give them to people not to die? Is that what you're saying? If so, this is the height of hypocrisy, and this is really a prosecutor for you. You're bragging about the number of tests today, that's 60,000. Is that so much? After all, this is a fraction, a fraction of what civilized countries do. You realize that's 60,000. is that what big European cities do for their needs? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you realize that? You really... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u118	Mr Marcin Kulasek, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! The major coronavirus outbreaks are in large cities. However, rural residents, including many farmers, are also suffering from pandemics. Hence my question: How many farmers and members of their families have been quarantined since the start of the pandemic? How did the State help them to continue their production? This applies primarily to animal production, which requires daily care for animals. The second question concerns large food-producing plants. In recent weeks, the COVID-19 outbreak was detected in meat plants in Ujadziec Mały near Trzebnica, in Suwałki, in Szczecin and in Starachowice. These are the plants belonging to the largest food producers. Hence my second question: Does the government have plans to provide the Poles with food supplies in a situation where I will be directed to quarantine the crews of the largest food-producing plants? What about the crisis management that Marshal Czarzasty was talking about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u120	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! A lot of attention in your speech, especially at the beginning, has been devoted to cooperation, solidarity, to the common challenge of pandemics. As part of this proposal, I would like to ask you if you intend to apologize - it is not about opposition politicians anymore, but it is about a large part of the society that has chosen us - for the words that are as follows: do not listen to the buzzing flies, they are using falsehood and hypocrisy. Will you have the courage to apologize for that? As for the absent President in today's debate and in this difficult situation, I would also like to ask if he is going to apologize to the Poles and the opposition for his words about opposition policies (the bell) that they are worse than Coronavirus. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u122	Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u123	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! Minister! I'll start by thanking you. Prime Minister, thank you for protecting the seniors, for protecting our dear seniors, for the Senior Support Corps, for announcing free vaccines after 75th year, for the anti-COVID rehabilitation facility. Are you okay with the Prime Minister? Let me remind you that, on your part, the Civic Platform, a prominent politician, talked about the fact that older people aren't worth implanting their hips because they're not going to rehabilitate, and they go to the doctor for entertainment. That's what happened. Shame on you. Exactly. That's what happened. [[Applause]] So, Prime Minister, thank you for giving oxygen to the entrepreneurs thanks to the anti-crisis shields. Thank you for having the lowest rate of death due to COVID. And we need oxygen in hospitals. And let me remind you that all rankings say that it is in France, Italy, that there are supposedly great health systems in the UK, whereas Poland has the lowest rate of mortality due to COVID. This is due of course to great heroes, [[♪ The bell ♪]] our health care, all the services, but also the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u124	Mr Sławomir Nitras, Civic Coalition. The question was, how do you make it so cool? Isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u125	I have listened attentively to you, Prime Minister, and you may feel that you are no longer fighting this epidemic. You know you failed, you and your government. All you do is create an alibi for yourself. You came in here and you stood there like you did when you told me to bring those ventilators behind you. It was only needed to create an alibi in front of people and to be able to say, "Yeah, see how I fight." Pay attention to what you said today. You didn't fight the epidemic at all. You fought the Platform, today you fought Mr. Budka, yesterday you fought Mr. Giertych. He fought a lie, he fought a lie. My question is, when are you going to deal with the COVID? [[Applause]] Because you are to fight COVID as the Polish Prime Minister, not as the opposition, not as lawyers, politicians or parliamentarians. That's what you're called for, Prime Minister. You were talking about the millions of vaccines you have. So what are you gonna tell those people in pharmacies who bounce off pharmacies who hear every day: no vaccines? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How can you tell people that? Where are you... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u126	Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u127	Prime Minister! Elderly people are particularly at risk for the pandemic of Coronavirus. The government has introduced certain powers for them, but they exist almost only on paper. And here are some examples. Teleports - a great idea with the spirit of time, but it doesn't work. Either you can't call a doctor, or even if you can, you still have to come with medical records in most cases. Granting the flu vaccine - perfect, but there are no vaccines. Not in clinics, not in pharmacies, not in wholesalers. Older people often stand in front of a clinic for hours to get to a doctor, risking getting infected. They're getting on their nerves. There have been cases where police intervention was necessary. It's not over. Seniors have a problem even with the basics of pandemics. The obligation to wear masks is not financed by the state, and disposable masks cost even a zloty. It is several dozen zlotys a month, which really is a big expense for the general miseries of Polish pensions. When you start proposing real (Bingle) changes for seniors... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u128	Mrs Anna April, Club Law and Justice. There isn't. We're connecting remotely. You're welcome, my fellow Member. Can you hear me? Hello, hello? Yeah, I can hear you. Ask me a question. You're welcome. Maybe in a minute. Talk to me, or you're gonna turn off the mike. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u129	In the media space, there are... [[Disruption of reception]] violations concerning the qualifications of nursing staff. That's why I have a question. Is it true that over 200... [[Disruption of reception]] The state works like this system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u130	Unfortunately, Commissioner, we do not have a connection. Mr Dariusz Joński, Civic Coalition Club. And it's been a minute. Not yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I ask a rather simple question: When will there be a strategy so that people don't die? So they wouldn't die, like that 60-year-old man in the ambulance outside Nysa Hospital was dying. Like that paramedic, the ambulance driver who was infected with the coronavirus drove from hospital to hospital in Mazowsze. He died, too. What are you gonna do when there's a strategy to keep the dispatcher from crying like today at the hospital in Poznan when she has to say there's no room available? Maybe an hour before someone dies. When will there be a strategy for the Łódź voivode not to turn a hospital in Wieruszów into an infectious hospital where there is no contagion and there is not a single ventilator? When will there finally be a strategy so that you don't buy respirator weapons and tests from Korea that aren't even used in Korea? And Polish hospitals send them away. When are you going to explain why gyms and swimming pools, not churches and dance clubs? Where's the logic in all this? When's the strategy? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u132	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u133	Dear Marshal, High Seym! Prime Minister! I regret to say that, even in an epidemic situation, when we fight the virus, the opposition Members are unable to give up political combat. We? Today, opposition leaders have shown and tried to speak out of this speaker in order to achieve their political goals. Listening to the opposition, I am grateful that the Platform with coalitionists is not ruling in Poland today. [[Applause]] It's a substantive voice. Because today they would tell us, as during the outbreak of swine flu in 2010, to enjoy spring, sleep and work peacefully when the Poles died. Or they'd say after their political guru that it's not an epidemic, it's global hysteria. You didn't care about health care, you didn't care about health care. You couldn't think ahead. Therefore, today, although now, from this moment on, listen to the appeal of Prime Minister Morawiecki. Start working together to protect health (The Bell) and the life of Poles. [[Applause]] It's better to say... There was no question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u134	Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u135	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! This painting ran all over Poland. Ambulances, which stood hours in front of hospitals in Poland. I ask you: where were you then, Prime Minister? Oh, that's the question. What are you proposing today? Today you are proposing what, a national medical emergency coordinator, of course, in the rank of minister. What about it? Plus, you're offering him a five-man team. How much is this gonna cost? How many jobs will there be? Who's advising you? Do you not remember that on July 31, 2019 you appointed a government representative for State Medical Rescue as Deputy Prime Minister today? You've set up the National Monitoring Centre for Medical Rescue two years earlier. Don't you remember that? Shouldn't these people be disciplined, and money for extra jobs for their guys to spend on new places, new beds? I'm asking you. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u136	Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u137	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Prime Minister! I thank you for this speech today, for your clear information, but first of all thank you for the work of the services, the voivods, the health centre and everyone who is trying to help during this difficult period, unlike the opposition. Unlike the opposition, I don't have contact, I don't have information just from the Internet, because I'm up to date with those who deal with the sick. Do you have a vaccine? Both the director of my hospital and Mr. Voivodeship. Prime Minister! The situation in Małopolska is really difficult, as you know. It's a good thing we have a functioning voivode. This is ridiculous. And let me put it this way, in this very difficult situation... the hospital's request for extra money for the newly created lab, which is being recreated after the Platform once destroyed it. The request for additional funds that came in yesterday reached you, too, yesterday. I'm in touch. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I hope this help... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]] That's a lousy round of applause. We're not here for applause.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u138	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! You've wasted six months and left Poland defenseless. You didn't do anything to prepare us for the second wave of the epidemic, but you played like on the Titanic, spending hundreds of millions of dollars when that money was needed by the sick. But in one you are masters: in the whispering of reality. Your assurance that the situation is under control, that you are able to make the whole world admire us and envy us. Today, in light of daily data about the dead and the infected, these spells of yours aren't funny, they're just pathetic. I am from Małopolska, where the situation is extremely dramatic. Doctors, nurses or paramedics are missing. People are dying, and the number of infections is breaking records. And what does PiS-owska power do? He organizes a concert for several hundred people in Wadowice. Scandal! Democratically elected authority. Do you remember the two billion PLN discussion that you spent on propaganda and fun instead of health care? This is what we had last Sunday as an example. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] So, are you guys having fun? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u140	Mrs Teresa Wargock, Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Honourable Members! Today, the Prime Minister has provided full, comprehensive information on the actions that have been taken. He responded to a number of your earlier observations, which was the government's action on vacation, which has been the government's action in recent weeks, which will be a strategy for the coming years. Why can't you even confirm that there's a strategy and there's government action? Because she's not here. Because you can't listen. There's a saying: the grandfather talked to the painting. [[Applause]] I strongly protest against calling the Prime Minister grandfather. The Prime Minister is not a grandfather. Grandpa's premiere to challenge? Prime Minister! I really admire you when it comes to this situation, which is also psychologically and socially difficult. Another call for cooperation from the Prime Minister is rejected. You can see all of this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many times... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u142	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today we are dealing with a serious fire, which is, of course, an epidemic, but also a health situation. You played with the element, you played with the fire, and now the house is on fire, the whole system is no longer functioning. As an opposition, we want to help you, we want to support you in these activities, in all these tasks. We will give you water, we will not give you a bucket of gasoline, as we are often suggested and accused, but it is you, Prime Minister, who must be the fireman today who extinguishes the fire and does not start it. So I ask you to put out the fire at the Voivodeship Hospital in Sosnowiec, where there is no basic equipment, where there are no basic medications, where there will be no toxicology department in a moment. This is a serious problem, Prime Minister, and this is all due to the internal war at the PiS. Put that fire out. I also ask that you take care of oncology, cardiology and all other areas that are neglected today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u144	Mr Konrad Frysztak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u145	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm sorry to say you didn't say anything today that we didn't know. They know everything. Let me explain to you what Poles who are not Kaczynski, Sasin or Czarnek are up against. What do you say to those who last night stood at the only point of collection of swabs in Radom, a point for Radom and Radom County? When it was necessary for seasonal workers to drive-thru in Skarishev, you did it, the Deputy Minister of National Defence did it. But when the number of diseases breaks records, you didn't. Today, Prime Minister, they're local governments, those self-hateful local governments, I'm sorry, by your group, they're fighting the coronavirus for you. What are you talking about? They're county hospitals, the ones you've been closing down, they're fighting the coronavirus. They're the ones fighting today. What do they get? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Voivodeships... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] Awesome. Do you even know what's going on? Mr President, you are done. Step out of the podium, please. It is customary to finish a sentence in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u146	I treat everyone fairly. Sir, it's 1 minute. Please comply. Maybe even, but it's definitely not fair. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u147	Dear Prime Minister, I'll remind you from your speech. Member Piotr Borys replays from the tablet a fragment of the statements of the Prime Minister of Mateusz Morawiecki: I am glad that we are less and less afraid of this virus, this epidemic. That's a good attitude, ladies and gentlemen, because he's in the back. Now you don't have to be afraid of him. These are your words, Prime Minister. You don't have to be afraid, you just have to protect yourself. Maybe it's time to stop this theater of appearance and propaganda. Coronavirus doesn't choose. The government will heal, but Poles will not, therefore I ask the question: Why do you not want to protect Poles? Influenza vaccinations. European Union recommendations: 75% population. The French, the Italians are 75% vaccinated. population, Poland - 4%. How do you want to protect Polish seniors? Testing: 24th place in Europe. Slovakia bought 13 million tests, Luxembourg - 1.5 One million per million population. Therefore, I will quote to you the words: Human misfortune along the way will be a painful teaching for the government. The epidemic does not listen to politicians, but it relentlessly exposes their mistakes. These are the words of your minister, Andrzej Sosnierz. Let them be a warning. Take advantage of our proposals because they're good. [[Applause]] The Prime Minister doesn't want to. Where are those vaccines? In reserve storage.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u148	You're welcome, Mr. Minister of Health Adam Niedzielski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u149	Ladies and gentlemen! By sowing declarations from really asked questions, because most of these statements were political declarations, I would like to start with the subject of beds. As far as beds are concerned, please note that Poland is a country which, in international comparisons, has by far the largest number of beds per 100,000. citizens. We in these statistics are ahead of all developed countries, all Western European countries, and we are ahead in a very significant way. These statistics in Poland were more than 500 beds per 100,000. citizens, while the European standard is about 300. The second information is that if we look at the average levels of occupation of these beds in each year, we see that in 2019 this level of occupation was 66% That's 2/3. It's a size that seems stable. What we are doing, changing the model of health care or health care in Poland in recent years, is the gradual shift of the burden of medical care from hospital to outpatient level, that is, we are replacing many days' stays, which have been associated with diagnostics, which lasted many, many days, in hospital, for such intensive one-day diagnostic procedures. The same applies to simple procedures. The number of beds must always be looked at in such a context: what is their occupation, what is this number against the background of Europe, because information concerning only beds is information ripped out of context. Exactly. Everyone knows that, Minister. The information you're presenting today regarding the reduction in beds... It was actually a procedure that really did that number. Since the beginning of the rule of law and justice, the so-called rule of law and justice has been conducted. the process of standardising employment standards, which talked about how many staff are to be allocated to a given branch for a given number of beds. Previously, hospital operators or other medicinal entities registered this number in the voivodship registers without any consequences, which means they could declare any amount, and just appeared a verifier of this number, because it had to be filled with staff. As a result of the introduction of these standards, an action was actually carried out to build some greater transparency and reliability of the data. System efficiency. This is an efficient undertaking, which is that we have realized this number of beds - to those who have cast, which are not paper beds in any way representing real value. So that I hope that... The answer to the question about beds is an answer that should never be treated in the context of only the number of beds, but the whole model of health care system in Poland. In fact, the discussion about this is a reason for a separate debate, for separate information. Vaccines. As far as vaccines are concerned, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that last year the number of people vaccinated throughout the season, I mean: from September to January, because even in January people still get vaccinated, amounted to 1.5 million. By mid-October we had just brought in 1.5 million vaccines, which was done last year throughout the season, which was realized by us already in 1.5 months. Please note that vaccine producers are planning to deliver to the market based on what happened last year. The Germans bought 30 million vaccines. At the moment, because the 1.5 million that have already been delivered to the market is absolutely unsatisfying for our website (the Bell), we have introduced the following sizes. By the end of October, it'll be $240,000. These are already signed and contracted vaccinations. By the end of November - another more than 0.5 million. In November we have the biggest delivery because this is the optimal time for vaccination. The accumulation of influenza last year took place at the turn of January and February, and the best immunity after the vaccine is about 60 days. As far as December is concerned, here too, we are expecting a supply of 200,000. vaccines. In September, people were supposed to be vaccinated. Yeah, they're members of the Platform in September, I think. Subject three, which means ventilators. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to issuing ventilators, the Ministry of Health here cooperates very closely with the Agency for Material Reserves. We're directing questions to hospitals all the time. We're checking if there's a real need for ventilators. We ask the question because these ventilators - I sign the release decision - are transferred for free to the public health system. That's all that's left to... And we're dealing with a situation where as a result of demand... We repeat this every two weeks, this is a continuous verification of the information that is reported by hospitals. We've spent 700 ventilators in the last two weeks. In fact, we have a constant dialogue with hospitals, especially those that are burdened with COVID tasks, so that they can be realized. If we look at the editions this season, we'll see that it's over $1,000. respirators. Based on the logic I was talking about, he's going to the hospital with 20%. patients of which 10% It requires oxygen support... This generates large numbers right away. Everyone can count for themselves how much $1,000. Respirators mean disease. We're talking about hundreds of thousands. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to teleports - here was this voice from the Left - in fact, after this season, the turn of spring and summer, we began to see that this issue requires intervention, we noticed that teleports are a pretext for limiting access to healthcare. I ordered a check or rather a verification visit, which concerned 8400 primary healthcare clinics. NFZ employees made a phone call to each of these clinics, called the number indicated on the clinic pages and verified availability. As a result of this verification it turned out that 600 units did not show the readiness or availability of via phone. This is of course a lot, but please note that 600 clinics do not account for even 10% of the 8400 verified units. Of course, in order not to stop at this stage, I asked for physical verification, checking how many of these 600 units are actually closed to four triggers and does not carry out regular activities. As a result of the check or not, because rather the visits of these 600 units we found that actually 60 units were closed on four triggers. These 60 units are now under the control of the National Health Fund, which, as we know, is not an easy partner during the inspection. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are the threads, the questions that I wanted to answer, and to conclude, I wanted to say that Slovakia's example is not the best, because Slovakia bought antigen tests, which still have to be verified with a PCR test, as defined by the WHO case. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u150	Thank you very much. The President of the Council of Ministers, Mateusz Morawiecki, will now speak. You're welcome, Prime Minister. Boris, your psychofan is coming.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u151	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few more answers, the reflections that have been given here, in response to what has been reported. And I think it's a question that we haven't discussed today, and it's fundamentally important for the whole system, namely doctors and doctor training. Well, I would like to thank the former Minister of Health, Mr Konstantim Radziwiłł, from this place... That he couldn't handle it. ...for the decisions that were taken at the very beginning of our governments in 2016. Well, that's when we started training by 50%. More doctors. Dear fellow countrymen, we know perfectly well how much time it takes to train a doctor: 6 years - studies, then 8 and 10 years - specializations. We know exactly how much we need new doctors. One of the first decisions made by today's voivode, and the then Minister of Health, was to increase recruitment for medical studies. It is thanks to this in a few years that this deficit of doctors, which is, of course, a problem in the whole health care service that we want to fix, will be reduced slowly. But you need to know very well who started this process, who really took care of this very tedious, long-term problem, so as to make up for it strategically. There were accusations and slanders in front of the former Minister of Health regarding ventilators. 70 million isn't in the account. Well, I would like to thank Minister Szumowski, Deputy Minister Cieszyński with all my power for not asking when there was a fire where to take water to put out this fire of the house, but taking and buying respirators where they were to buy them. From an arms dealer. It is thanks to the ministers that we are also calmer today. But there's no 70 million, Prime Minister. Mr... Because exactly as Minister Niedzielski said - I will stress this once again - if any hospital, any unit today has a need for a ventilator, please request a free delivery of this ventilator, because there are respirators purchased in the stores of the Material Reserve Agency. I thank Minister Szumowski once again that he actually purchased these ventilators as early as May, June and July for the second wave. Thank you so much for this strategy. Ladies and gentlemen! Although we have one of the highest numbers of anesthesiology nurses per 100,000. The population in the European Union, a total of 34 820, has been increased by 620 at the same time. It's just a matter of information, because today anesthetic nurses or disabled internists are very important in the context of the whole COVID-19 treatment process. But they're gonna get extra pay? As far as these swab points were concerned, I would also like to say that in addition to traditional swab points we are creating, already being created, more than 300 swab points are already functioning, which will also be increasingly supported by the Territorial Defence Forces and operational troops. Why? So that nurses or sometimes other doctors who support these swab points can be released for medical activities, for activities that are more needed in health care at this point in time. Within our third and fourth lines of defence, these resources are already being shifted. At the same time, I thank the Minister for National Defence for the fact that during the last few months of summer months, without waiting for the development of events, he has organized a training of 100,000. soldiers in the field just courses and medical training. Now there are paramedics among them who enter places that can be released by the medics. The Member from the Left spoke about crisis management. Yeah, there's a government crisis management team, we've been meeting every day since spring. In the spring we met every day, then in the summer we cut the frequency, and today we meet again every day. There is always a ministerial report on the most important issues today, how many beds there are, how many ventilators there are (the bell) how to make them even more, how better to ensure distribution. There was talk of local hospitals. Yes, I can only appeal once again to all self-governments, because they are often the founding body. If you need ventilators, they're available. If you need organizational changes, please... if you need any equipment... You know perfectly well that in the years 2017, 2018 and 2019 we made such purchases of equipment that previously took place within 10 years or longer. There was also talk of ambulances. Several hundred ambulances have arrived in the last two years, so it's medical equipment. I think if you ask most of the hospital directors, they'll confirm that there's never been such a financial injection and an injection of hospital equipment. [[Applause]] There was the voice of one of the Members of the Left, and I do not see it now, concerning the non-transformation into an infectious hospital. Well, I think that's what it's all about, communicating with local government officials, so that some hospitals can be converted into COVID hospitals. That's what this trial is all about today. We agree with local government officials which hospitals which medical services are to provide. Thank you for the vote on the homeless. We're gonna look at what it looks like to treat homeless people or to report to homeless people for tests. Ladies and gentlemen! Most of the questions have been answered by the Minister of Health. I just want to emphasise once again that thank you for the positive vote. It's time to make peace. We are ready for a positive, constructive dialogue. Will there be a word for "sorry"? Today, the fight against the epidemic is our absolute highest priority, and we will be struggling with this epidemic for some time. Will you apologize for your negligence and your stupid words? What's that? To invent a vaccine, a cure, of course, we don't know that exactly. But it is extremely important that the whole political class be in agreement, because today it is a test, not only for the rulers, for the rulers absolutely also... Excuse me, will it? ...but also for the whole political class, whether they can cooperate or not, or they can't afford to accept the outstretched hand. I would like to stress with all my power: we reject extremes, we reject those who do not want to apply rigors and we will absolutely enforce through our uniformed services all these tightenings and rigors. We also reject those who say: close the entire economy immediately... Who says that? ...all services, all industries... Who? ...because we know what an economic collapse it all ended in spring. Not the highest in Poland, but we are blowing away. Name. We want to maintain these good economic parameters, because work, work and once again work for Poles is the most important. We will take care of this at the same time and in parallel with the fight against COVID-19. Thank you. [[Applause]] But you'll apologize?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-10-21-sejm-19-2.u152	Thank you, Prime Minister. The discussion is closed. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. We will proceed to the vote on this proposal in the voting block. I'm declaring a time-out. 17. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 14 min 35]]
