ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u1	Please take your seats. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, guests. I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to inform you that, due to the absence of a representative from the Council of Ministers for the consideration of the third point, this point is closed. We will address to Prime Minister Morawiecki another information, another invitation to discuss this matter which is vital to citizens, as planned. We will proceed with the examination of point six in a moment, but first, of course, all communications will be made. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Dear Senators located in the Senate building, please check whether everyone has disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting, and if you have Senators participating in the sitting remotely, please check whether they have them on, whether the cameras are directed at them, etc. I'd like to inform you that in 15 minutes, we're gonna block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking a vote which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the sitting, so I ask you to cast any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 78 senators voted. [[Voting No 5]] So many senators are currently attending the meeting. This number, I hope, is going to change. Ladies and gentlemen, today's proceedings will begin with the examination of paragraph 6 concerning the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of action against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15, briefly referred to as the Pedophilia Committee. Immediately after its consideration, we will proceed with the vote on this matter. Let me remind you that this will be a roll call vote, carried out using specially prepared ballots. I would also like to remind you that, after preparing the printing of the Senate order, as announced earlier, it will be supplemented by a point concerning the setting up of a climate committee. The Seniors Convention decided to include this point because Senate printing is already ready. The Convention unanimously decided to include this point and gave a positive opinion on the draft resolution. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the appointment of a member of the State Anti-Pedophilia Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that on 25 June 2020 the deadline for submitting candidates for a committee member expired. I inform you that the following candidates have been submitted, whose names I will read in alphabetical order: Mr Adam Czarnecki, Mr Marian Jagielski, Ms Agnieszka Rękas and Mrs Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska. The list of candidates with CVs is provided in print No 154. He addressed proposals concerning the applications submitted by the Senate Marshals to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The committee's report is contained in print No 154 O. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Joanna Sekuła, to speak and to present a report to the committee. One more remark. Excuse me, Senator. I would like to inform you that there will probably be two breaks, one at 11.00, at the request of the senators of the democratic majority, and the other at the end of the hearing of the candidates, at the request of the Law and Justice Club. There is no club like a democratic majority, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal... It suggests we're not democratic. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm deleting the word "club"... Break at the request of one of the clubs. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Let's hear it for the democratic opposition! [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm asking the senator for a report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's my honor to introduce... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to focus. I have the honour to present candidates and candidates to the State Commission for the purpose of clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15, from which the Senate will elect its 1st representative. This committee was set up by the Act of 30 August 2019 as a response to a series of dramatic events revealed by the media at that time and subjected to very harsh criticism by society. The scope of the committee's activities and competences is very wide, which ensures that the mission to which it has been appointed can actually be carried out. The Act guarantees the Commission's independence from other authorities and therefore members who will be appointed to it, in addition to the criteria of competence, must also absolutely meet the criteria of freedom from any influence and pressure. The committee shall consist of seven members elected for a seven-year term. The Sejm has a real impact on the organisation of work and the work of the committee, since it appoints members from among its members, accepts the oath of members and convenes the first meeting. There are three representatives of the Sejm and one representative of the President, the Prime Minister, the Senate and the Ombudsman. They are called according to the employment relationship according to the Labour Code. The selection criteria are in accordance with the Act revised in Shield 3.0 and are as follows: The need to have Polish citizenship and to exercise public rights, the ability to act, the fact of not being convicted of crimes or tax offences and, to choose from, one of the factors such as having a doctorate or professor's degree, being an academic teacher under the Law on Higher Education, having a higher education in law, medical, psychological or pedagogical, and giving an award or award under the Law on Awards and Awards. According to this law, a member of the committee may become e.g. Foreigner or foreign citizen of Poland: who has made an outstanding contribution to international cooperation and cooperation between the Republic of Poland and other countries and nations; who has been awarded the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland or received the Cross of Merit for Merit given to ABW officers, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, CBA, State Security Service, Border Guard, Marshal's Guard. All this for actions in which he showed exceptional courage, risking life or health, defending the law, etc. Members may not be members of the committee: parliamentarians, co-workers, party body activists and persons acting in local governments. I would like to present to the High House four candidates who have been recommended by different levels, in accordance with the Article. Article 6 (6) (a) 9th Bill. The candidates presented themselves at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions on 30 June 2020. The purpose of this committee meeting was to present candidates for a member of the State Commission for clarifying cases of action against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 and, finally, to express an opinion on recommending them to the High House. Three candidates attended the meeting: Mr Adam Czarnecki, Mr Marian Jagielski and Mrs Agnieszka Rękas. Ms. Agnieszka Widera-Vysoczańska did not appear at the time. Because of the plane's failure, she couldn't get to us. All candidates shall meet the formal criteria. Before I present the candidates, I would like to present some further details of the bill, as this is important in deciding whether to choose for such an important function. It is important that the members of the committee are not responsible for their duties in committee, i.e. they can't be held accountable. The office of the committee shall be set up and the chairman of the committee shall determine its organisation. The Council of Ministers shall determine the requirements, remuneration and qualifications for each position in that office. Expenditure on the operation of committees and offices shall be covered by the State budget. The members of the committee shall be remunerated in accordance with the guidelines for governing public positions. I will not be involved in the affairs of the committee, but I will point out that the committee has very broad competences. I can tell you with confidence that it's equivalent to the D.A.'s office. When it comes to accessing information. The National Commission for the Clarification of Actions Against Sexual Freedom and Vice against a minor under 15 years of age shall have the power to adopt a provision for inclusion in the Register of Persons who form part of the Register of Criminals in the Sexual Background. And this info is transferred to the National Criminal Register. A very important task for the committee is to identify the problems arising in the practice of prosecuting cases of abuse and punishing perpetrators of crimes against freedom, etc. The Commission also carries out educational and preventive activities, including: promote the dissemination of knowledge on prevention and prevention of sexual abuse and pedophilia, and support social initiatives aimed at shaping openness towards the need to report sexual abuse, including information campaigns. The committee's task is also to work on the legislative initiative resulting from the Commission's activities and to cooperate with various organisations, including. a church and religious unions, civil movements, foundations, associations working to protect children's rights, in particular those working to protect them and to combat violence, including sexual violence. I have highlighted to the High House an overview of the tasks, competences and expected results of the actions relating to the appointed member of the committee and the committee's office, and now a brief presentation of the candidates. Let's start with... You're welcome, Senator, alphabetically... Yes, of course. ...and in a rather compact way, because the candidates' silhouettes are in print number 154. Mr Adam Czarnecki, the candidate submitted by the Association may add that Mr Adam Czarnecki is also a candidate submitted in the Sejm by the same association, he is a lawyer, a young lawyer, a member of the District Bar Council in Warsaw. He was an assistant judge at one of the district courts in Warsaw. What is important from the point of view of Adam Czarnecki's competence is the fact that he acted within this association as a teacher, a methodist who conducted training for high-school children, also at KUL, and once for middle-school children. He's a PhD student at KUL, he's writing a PhD in law history. Mr. Czarnecki declares full objectivity so that there are no false accusations by the victim. As he told us, he would like to ensure that no one is wrongly punished, or entered in any public register. When it talks about the substance of the committee's work, it finds that it is somewhat competitive with the prosecutor's office, but the fact that the committee will be able to coordinate the activities of the various institutions considers it appropriate. He's apolitical, he didn't belong, and he doesn't belong to any political party. Mr. Marian Jagielski is a lawyer who's been working for 30 years. He's recommended by the Chief Attorney General. He graduated from Jagiellonian University, law school, court application, and then lawyer. He was the President of the Disciplinary Court, currently dean of the District Bar Council in Opole. He's a practicing lawyer. He works with the D.A.'s office, the courts and the police. He declares that he will come to work in committee in a formal, legal manner. It considers that the phenomenon of pedophilia has a psychological, medical, and sexual dimension, but the committee should deal with this phenomenon in legal terms, typically legal, which means a threat of punishment from the criminal code. Ms Agnieszka Rękas is a judge of the District Court in Częstochowa at rest, she is recommended by a group of senators who supported her candidacy to serve as a member in the committee. Judge Rękas had a long-standing judicial career in the district court and district court, for 13 years she was president of the third criminal department and vice-president of the Częstochowa District Court for criminal matters. She was one of the first to mediate, a new tool that was an alternative to justice. By engaging in these activities, she considered mediation to be a very effective tool in resolving human rights and child rights issues. As a mediator, she was appointed to work at the Ministry of Justice, where she worked for many years. After she ceased her duties as a judge, when she was retired, she began working with the spokesperson for the rights of the child, Mr Mark Michalak, with whom she had already worked as a social adviser since 2009 and then as a permanent adviser and then as a chief legal consultant for the Ombudsman. And a fourth candidate who unfortunately failed to introduce herself to us in person. Therefore, Mr. Marshal, I will briefly introduce Ms. Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska... Senator, you'll be able to ask the candidates questions. Senators have print at their disposal, they will have the opportunity to ask questions and the right to expect explanations. So that you can introduce the candidate in the same way as the previous candidates. Good. Ms Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska is a psychologist, a clinical psychologist, working as an assistant at the Department Clinical Psychology and Health at the Institute of Psychology at the University of Wrocław. She was also a lecturer at the University of Social Psychology in Wrocław. She has remarkable scientific achievements and a very broad education, she is a psychological trainer, she worked at the Institute Health Psychology. In this regard, as she says, she has the capacity to serve in the committee that we are discussing today, to a very large extent, because she has both legal and psychotherapeutic competence. She has had many scientific internships, has been active in national and foreign conferences, has numerous publications on psychological trauma. Currently he is a lecturer consultant in cooperation with the State Agency for the Solution of Alcohol Problems in Warsaw. She is also an active psychologist and psychotherapist at the Institute of Trauma Psychology, Development and Training, which she is the founder and active therapist. I think those recommendations to Dr. Agnieszka Wysoczańska-Widera... May I add that it is appointed by regional and district courts, family courts, juvenile cases, criminal courts, civil courts and prosecutors throughout Poland as a candidate for the execution and writing of forensic and psychological studies, diagnosis of child sexual harassment cases. Experts include the diagnosis of victims, children, adults, mothers, carers and perpetrators. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. Maybe one more thing, Mr. Marshal. As far as candidates are concerned, I will present the results of the vote. Mr Adam Czarnecki: 5 votes in favour, 1 against, 4 abstentions. Mr Marian Jagielski: 7 votes in favour, no objection, 2 abstentions. Ms Agnieszka Ręgas: 7 votes in favour, no votes against, 3 abstentions. Ms Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska: 5 for, 5 abstentions. The following representatives have already been appointed to the committee: the President, Ms Justyna Kotowska, Prime Minister, Ms Elżbieta Malicka, spokesperson for the rights of the child Mr. Blaze Kmiesik. Ten candidates were submitted to the committee in the Sejm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u3	Thank you very much. Thank you. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. I would like to inform you that before adopting a resolution on this matter, the Senate may call on candidates to provide explanations and answer the senators' questions. Thank you very much, Senator. Do any of you senators want to ask your candidate Adam Czarnecki? You're welcome, Senator locksmith.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u4	Coincidentally, due to the alphabetical order, it happened that you get the question first, but to all the candidates I would ask the same question about the same content. That's actually two questions. There will be an area of human sexuality under investigation by you. These are difficult things that will sometimes require some kind of insight into the values of individuals and victims. I'm interested in this element of value systems. I'm asking you this question, but I'm going to repeat it. Which are important to you, and your attitude towards gender ideology, which, as I say, penetrates the sexuality of people. I'd like your opinion on this ideology. The second point is, ladies and gentlemen, freedom from the influence of a member of such a committee, the influence of different backgrounds. I met with two attitudes on the side of sex offenders towards minors. One is pretty obvious, it's a disturbed drive. That's the kind of person I used to meet at work. These are people in some way primitive, though clever in fulfilling their needs, their urges. Of course, they are undoubtedly criminals. The second group engages in these activities within a certain category, reaching for the forbidden fruit, manifesting power, manipulating others. These are areas where people can be exposed. Here, of course, we immediately think of the Catholic Church as an institution that could, so to speak, suppress certain actions. After all, the appointment of this committee is linked to the events we have witnessed, but it is not the only group of influence. We also hear about celebrities, about politicians. We've dealt with casualties in many countries. But there is, too. And that's the conclusion. of this question LGBT environment. And I'm curious because it's that such a criminal is willing to impersonate the environment. And we've had these situations, even at the BBC in England. Is there enough character for you to penetrate this issue further, even though someone will impersonate this kind of environment? These 2 questions, i.e. gender ideology and the LGBT environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, allow me to make two remarks. One minute is for questions... Excuse me. Besides, I remind everyone that we're discussing the appointment of a member of the pedophilia committee. And I would like to inform you that, of course, it is advisable for you to answer the questions of pleno titulo senators, but the format and content of this statement remains, of course, your absolute responsibility. And a deviation from the answer to questions is also the answer. You're welcome, Mr. Adam Czarnecki. You can answer from your seat, you can come over here, but there's a good microphone, you can hear everything.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u6	I answer both questions because, as I understand, the question of gender ideology is also about a group of influences, at least that's how I understand this question. Well, from the point of view of my system, values absolutely cannot be pursued for any legalization of pedophilia. It doesn't matter what kind of ideology it is. Indeed, there were marginal groups somewhere, which were postulated, among others. It's to remove pedophilia from the list of mental illness. But I will say the same thing as I said at the committee meeting: I believe that no one healthy, who is not a criminal, at least such a sex offender, does not insist in Poland or in the world that pedophilia is legal. I think that answers the first question. And as for freedom from influence... Well, I personally consider myself an influence-free person. I've always followed my conscience or as a judge's assistant... Of course, well, I had to follow orders, but if there was something I would object to, I would protest, regardless of the possible professional consequences. In the particular case of this committee, if I were to become a member of it, I would absolutely not give in to any influence, whether, as the senator mentioned, the Church or possibly other environments. Indeed, there are two groups of perpetrators of such acts. One can simply be described as disturbed and mentally ill, but there are also those who organize themselves. This is primarily related to the elements of paedophile pornography. There are groups of people who simply exchange such films or even order themselves what they want to see. These are dangerous crime groups. On the other hand, we have organizations who want to take care of their image so much that they cover things up when they find out that their colleague, whether from the Church or from the company, e.g. Some accomplice was involved in something like this. I imagine it would be possible that an immoral person would seek to cover up such a matter in order to protect his image in order to protect his material possessions in fact. Well, in that case, I wouldn't have any resistance to report it to the right department. And I certainly wouldn't give in to any blackmail or other pressure. I believe that the easiest way to fight these trials is simply to expose them. Even if it led to this, for example. I wouldn't be afraid to face it. That's why I think I'm completely free.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u7	Thank you very much. Just to remind you, you'll be irreplaceable for seven years. Senator Lover.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u8	I don't know if you're the senator asking that question. That's how I understood it. He didn't expect an answer from all the candidates. Right? That's what I understand. Yeah, but first things first... I assume we won't repeat Senator Locksmith's questions every time... I see. All the candidates listened, so that we would ask you to start by answering that question. Good. I am also asking all candidates a question about your assessment of the state of the child's rights today and the state of compliance with these rights, especially in the context of the offences that have been prosecuted by the committee you are seeking to become a member of. We're here to assess which one of you will sit on this committee. It is about the state of the rights, whether they are sufficient. Is the implementation of these rights sufficient, especially in the context of the crimes we are talking about?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u9	Mr. Czarnecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u10	In my opinion, as I said at the committee meeting... Criminal law, which currently applies to such acts, is a positive assessment of material criminal law. I believe that some minor changes may take place in connection with the procedure, but due to the very fact that this committee has been set up by law, both politicians and society expect greater action to protect the rights of the child. The previous actions, although not specialised in this particular category of crime, the prosecution and for this reason the body that would have been able to fix this would have been insufficient. This would require further amendments to the Commission Act, but I think the very establishment of this committee is heading in the right direction when it comes to protecting the rights of the child. I would also like to add that there is a need for a thorough analysis of all criminal cases relating primarily to this crime that we are dealing with, namely pedophilia. It's an analysis of the reason why the investigation was refused, the reason why the acquittals were lost, the reason why they were exonerated. It is about drawing up a full analysis that would allow possible legal gaps to be caught and referring also to the scale of the problem associated with these acts, the problem of false accusations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u11	Thank you very much. You're asking the Marshal Bang a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm following a similar lead to Senator Kochan's lead, but I'd like to make this question a little more specific. This is also a question to all countries, and especially to countries that are professional lawyers, with a lot of experience. Could you describe in a few words what should be the priorities of the state's criminal policy in the fight against pedophilia crimes? And in detail, I would like you to address some of the legal solutions introduced by the Government of Law and Justice in recent years. Namely, do you support: mandatory life ban on working with children for a paedophile; tightening the prison sentence for the rape of a child, from 5 to 30 years, excluding the limitation of paedophile crimes and the absolute life sentence for the most dangerous perpetrators of paedophile crimes? How would you address the legal issue of the possibility of rehabilitation of pedophiles? Do you think that rehabilitation is possible, or should it be a priority for criminal policy? And if possible, to what extent? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u13	Please, you will be asked one at a time in alphabetical order. Please write down these questions, I'm writing them down, because without notes it's gonna be hard to remember them all and we're probably gonna have to repeat some of them. You're welcome, Counselor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u14	With regard to this question, I would first of all like to say that it is necessary to be careful with the tightening of penalties, in general with the tightening of criminal policy against any criminal offence. This killing should always be the most punished, national repression should be the most affected by such perpetrators, otherwise it may happen that the perpetrators will simply kill victims to get rid of witnesses of previous crimes, as happened before the court. With regard to the various elements of criminal policy implemented, I would like to say that the lifetime ban on such people's work in front of children is justified. Exacerbation of penalties in this case... I think it's more about getting these unsubs caught in the first place so that the prosecution, the law enforcement authorities, can work. The Commission will not be a law enforcement authority, it will be an advisory body, but it is also a matter for this committee to act. It's secondary to what kind of punishment is going to be here. I don't think it should be a low penalty, but you always have to be careful not to cross that limit for a homicide crime, a homicide crime. The exclusion of limitations poses major problems. Like I said, in the case of murder, in the case of communist crimes, it's... In the case of communist crimes, life is off, and in the case of murder... Everything here must be thought out, e.g. whether state authorities are able to really pursue, judge even after 50 years, whether someone is guilty or not, when most witnesses no longer remember many things or are dead. State authorities may simply fail to do so. In the event of limitation, the State is obliged to prosecute the perpetrators for the rest of their lives. But is that even a physical possibility? As far as rehabilitation is concerned, here's what I'm going to say. Our system, at least until the implementation of the so-called. The laws on beasts, he assumed that every person could be rehabilitated, except for the worst cases such as Mr. Trynkiewicz known from the media. So rehabilitation, yes, but these people should be checked, such as reporting to the appropriate authorities. I think that, in the event of an appropriate change of law, such a committee could be a body to which the perpetrators who have already taken their punishments could ask for help. In my experience, there was one perpetrator who specifically did more and more daring things in public, expecting him to be caught. She was a sick person, she needed help, but she couldn't volunteer for help herself, which is why she was getting bolder and bolder until she was finally captured by the citizens on the street. I think that the state should fight against the crime of pedophilia with all its power, but the idea is that this is primarily about detecting the perpetrators, so that the detection is close to 100%. and to eliminate any institutional protection of such perpetrators, as I said earlier, the protection of various institutions, not only the Church, but also some other environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u15	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm asking all the candidates a question. What is your opinion on the pardon of the President of the Republic of Poland for crimes of pedophilia? According to the current state of knowledge, these tendencies, paedophile disorders are neither rehabilitated nor cured and are a huge threat to our children, our families and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u17	Thank you very much. For time's sake, I'm asking you to answer me hard because the Senate still has a few things to do today. I would like to remind you that there was a committee meeting and you presented your dossier briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u18	About the pardon I understand this is about a case that has recently been raised by the public? That's where it went, it seems...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u19	Mr. Counselor, they don't refer to casuistics. The question was, how do you refer to pardoning paedophiles? Let us not analyze individual cases because we have media knowledge about this. It's a rule. You will uphold the principles of the fight against pedophilia. Your opinion that Dura lex, sed lex, which is the most important is effective catching, is the principle, but please do not refer to the casuistics.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u20	Good. In my opinion, those convicted of pedophilia should not be pardoned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u21	Thank you very much. Now you're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u22	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, Dear Candidates, the question is addressed to each of your candidates. I ask for a brief, concise assessment of the standards of sexual education in Europe by WHO, with particular emphasis on the matrix of sexual education for the youngest age groups.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u23	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u24	First of all, I think that sexual education should be the responsibility of the family. The State should enter this area when problems are identified in the family concerned. State authorities should recognise these problems, for example by teachers, by educators at school and only then introduce additional definitions, mechanisms. With regard to sexual education standards, there was also a question at the committee meeting; there was a question about age. In my opinion, the general age at which sexual education could be introduced at school is about 12 and should have been dependent on the family before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u25	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Hare a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u26	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, ladies and gentlemen, in the absence of a well-thought-out concept of punishing people with different administrative functions, the social proposals are very often, so to speak, to improve punishment by extending the duration of the sentence. That's what we do most of the time. My question is: how would you see the extension of rehabilitation through work?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u27	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u28	This is an interesting issue. There was such a solution in interwar times, then there were labor facilities for prisoners, forced labor. Actually, these people have to agree to work. This is a good idea, but it is hard to implement due to international agreements that bind Poland. As I said before, I still believe that the perpetrator of even such acts, depending on exactly what actions he has committed. I'm speaking in such detail, Casuistically, it can be rehabilitated. I've dealt with the unsub who did this because he was rich. Then he lost his money, lost his freedom and his money, and when he got free, he changed. I'm sorry, but you're going to casuistics again, Mr. Counselor. I'm just finishing my statement. I'm sorry. The mere extension of the period of imprisonment of those persons will not change their situation. Of course, it would be theoretically life sentence. The Sejm may change this sentence to life imprisonment, but it will only equal the crime of paedophilia to the crime of murder, which will do more harm than good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u29	Thank you very much. Your questions for Mr. Black have been exhausted. In a moment you will be able to ask counsel Marian Jagielski questions, except that I would first ask for a firm answer to those questions which were cumulative. Maybe I'll recapitulate them. The first was gender ideology, but focus on how this applies to the fight against pedophilia. There have been questions about the current legal situation and its assessment, about the priorities of the penal policy of the PiS government, the life ban on working with a child, the increase of punishment from 5 to 30 years and the exclusion of statute of limitations, and whether paedophiles deserve pardon. They also asked about the standards of sexual education according to WHO, of course in relation to pedophilia, because this is a broad topic. If the senators want to ask other questions, then of course I will. You're welcome, Counselor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u30	I'll try to answer all these questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a certain legal situation. The Commission will come to act in a specific legal state that now exists. Of course, we look at the crime of pedophilia sexually, psychologically or medically, but let us not forget that the committee is called to evaluate this phenomenon from a legal point of view, namely chapter XXV of the Penal Code. In particular, we were talking about art here. 200 criminal code, sexual relations with a minor and other sexual activities. The marks of these crimes are set out in the Criminal Code. The criminal is liable when his act meets all the signs of these crimes. Well, that's the state of law. What are the shortcomings of our legal status? I think he's okay, he's okay. What are we missing? We lack the speed of action, because unfortunately these matters take a very long time. We lack such a thing as the inevitability of punishment, as well as, ladies and gentlemen, the regulation of compensation for victims. These are three aspects that are very important. So that, from this point of view, I would propose a possible amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure to force law enforcement authorities to speed up these proceedings. I imagine that the investigation of such a case would have to be completed, say, within 60 days, and judicial proceedings within three months. These are exemplary deadlines, but in this direction, some adjustments could be made. As far as pressure is concerned, I, ladies and gentlemen, am 65 years old, and I have been a lawyer for over 30 years. For many years I have been the President of the Disciplinary Court, as well as the Vice-Dean of the Dean of the United States. I am now the Dean of the United States. The district attorney's council. Therefore, I think that my life and professional experience entitles me to say that I am free from all kinds of pressures, and I treat them in terms of science fiction. If there's a suspicion of a crime, if the crime is confirmed, there's nothing at all to talk about. I don't think we should even discuss this. Next case. The Commission has the power to carry out educational or preventive activities. It is very important, very important, because we are dealing with very delicate matter, we are talking about minors under the age of 15, i.e. people who are physically and mentally immature, in whom contact with potential criminals can have a very negative impact on their entire life. It's the kind of experience that's been weighing on these people for the rest of their lives. The matter is very delicate. I'm a lawyer, I'm not a psychologist, I'm not a psychiatrist, which is why I'm going to say that this requires a very sensitive approach to the subject. It's about education. How old? Well, times change a little, kids have Internet access, things happen. But I think that in many cases the victims of these crimes are children, even under the age of 10. 'Cause I'm not talking about education, but maybe giving these kids a heads-up about what might happen to them. This is very important. Already at the elementary school stage. So that they can be careful when it comes to such random contacts or random suggestions from others to approach them with caution. As far as pardon is concerned, it is the responsibility of the President of the State and I think it should remain so. It's the president of the state who decides whether or not to pardon someone, and we need to... This is the constitutional body and the head of state, we must have confidence in it, trust that possible pardon proceedings will be carried out fully and appropriate conclusions will be drawn. Whether to pardon or not I believe that this should be left to the President. Answer the question about the definition of the World Health Organisation. As you know, the most popular in circulation is the definition of the Society of American Psychiatrists and this is the WHO definition. They both assume certain conditions that a pedophile must fulfil, including that he must be of the right age. This phenomenon must last more than 6 months, this person must be over 16 years old and at least 5 years earlier, so to speak, already have these tendencies. But it's like I said, the committee is in a certain state of law and will assess potential paedophiles for the offences of Chapter XXV of the Penal Code. Rehabilitation through work. You've already raised that point before me, and... Well, we're bound by some international agreements, international conventions, and this issue is a little outside the committee's remit because it goes beyond its competence. I'm in favour of the prisoners working, but, as you pointed out, it requires their consent. In general, I believe that this committee should be the coordinating body of the judicial system, i.e. the police, the prosecutor's office, the courts, in a sense as well as the prisons, and should have an impact on the three elements that I have been talking about, namely the speed of proceedings, the inevitability of penalties and compensation for victims, the environment of victims with appropriate psychological and economic care. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u31	Thank you very much. I ask you to answer the same questions as Mrs Agnieszka Rękas. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u32	As for the first question, I'm going to say yes. I've been a judge for 35 years, for 5 years at rest, and I've never spoken, spoken, and I'm not going to talk about my views on the worldview of LGBT, about the homosexual environment, because it doesn't matter in judgment. What counts is the act, the perpetrator, the circumstances of the act, the person injured and the harm suffered by him, all the circumstances, properties, personal conditions in favor and to the detriment of the perpetrator. And then we decide what kind of punishment should be imposed and how high the penalty should be. A pedophile is a human being. It's not an environment, it's not an institution, it's not some public entity. This is the man who commits the crime and who should be responsible for the crime. So it does not matter where the perpetrator of such an act comes from. In general, to answer the question that your senator has left behind, maybe I can recall the words of a dead Fr. Jan Kaczkowski, who said that a Catholic cannot be anti-Semitic, anti-gay, anti-Kontos, because being anti-Kontos means we despise another man, and we must not do that. The basis on which human rights are based is dignity. If we respect another man, there is no margin for violence, no matter what kind and in what form. However, if we do not respect this principle, the likelihood of violence is equal to certainty. Regarding the second question, relating to freedom That's how I wrote it down. To the influence of different environments, whether I'm afraid of it... Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not afraid. I've been an active judge for 30 years, and I've never had any influence. As I say, it doesn't matter to the judge. More generally, it shouldn't matter. If such cases occur in the practice of the justice system, such a judge should not be a judge of a different profession. This is a profession which forces, first, objectivity, second, to rely on the law that is in force, and to apply this law, thirdly, an assessment not only on the basis of law, but also on professional experience, on the principles of social coexistence. Another 2 principles, which result from the Constitution, are independence, which is guaranteed by the law on the state committee, and the independence of the judge. All these elements result in the fact that... I believe that if I'm a member of the committee, there's simply no way that any environment, person, entity, institution can influence my decisions. Another topic: assessing whether the legal situation is sufficient, whether it should be changed and in what context. Our laws on sexual crimes and against morals are pretty much complete, and I agree with Mr. Counselor. But there's one thing we have to remember. The fact that we think that they are complete does not exempt us from the obligation to supplement these provisions, from the obligation to seek perhaps new solutions, the processing of these provisions In order to protect children as much as possible. If we were thinking about legislative changes, then, I agree, the issue of no limitation should be considered here. The article appears to be a provision. 105, referring to the impossibility of limitation of the offence by the end of the age of 30 by the victim, may seem insufficient in some situations. Sometimes the trauma of sexual abuse during childhood lasts so long that the 30 years of life of such a person passes away and then nothing can be done. I would also consider extending the scope of the ban... I'm talking about the absence of a conviction. I am also thinking about procedural matters concerning the interrogation of minors, i.e. the article. 185a k.p.k. He is, when it comes to legal solution, regulation, very good. There are implementing acts for this purpose which refer to the grounds and conditions to be followed in the hearing of children. There's a guarantee that a judge of the same sex as a child does. The victim. But unfortunately, practice shows that not every judge deals with it, not every judge has enough empathy and ability to talk to a child to conduct such an interrogation. And here I see the need to carry out maybe additional training, some workshops for judges, simulations that would allow judges to improve the workshop when it comes to interrogation of minors. Let me put it this way: the purpose of the committee is above all to protect children. That's the primary goal. Still... I listen to people say things. It is said that the committee monitors, controls, sends, collects notices, gives them the proper procedure, is to deal with prevention, education. This is a huge area. But, ladies and gentlemen, these are primarily tools, tools for this purpose, to protect children from pedophilia. And that's the duty of the state. And to what extent, how these tasks are to be carried out and how this objective set as the protection of the rights of the child is to be realized... I think that's the main task of the committee. The next question was what are the priorities for combating pedophilia. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many areas here. These are, firstly, areas targeted at prevention and education, this is a very important area which unfortunately is neglected in our country. These are soft actions, involving campaigns, conducting various social movements. The question of education... Well, it's not a question of whether to educate in the fight against sexual crime, it's a question of how to educate. To what extent? From what level of child development? Who's gonna lead this education? To what extent is the parent and the family, and to what extent is the school or other entities, such as counsellors and NGOs? So this is a huge area, which has not yet been covered by the measures taken by the State. There are many anti-violence programs run by many actors, by many resorts. But please note that there is no central policy to protect the child from violence. It's not just sexual violence. Because this is one of the forms of violence, the most drastic and severe to the child and having the most severe effects in the child's life, as well as in his family. As for another such soft, non-legislative element, in terms of changing a specific provision of criminal law or criminal procedure, we need to put the whole apparatus, the whole mechanism for helping and supporting children who have been harmed by sexual violence, and we need to include their family in this apparatus. Because the fact that there was a criminal conflict and child abuse... The victim is a child, but the victim is also his immediate environment, the local community, which may also be affected by this kind of act, may also need State aid. I was wondering about the question that contained this ruthlessness of life. To be honest, I can't really answer that question because I don't know what the senator meant. Does this ruthlessness of life mean that there would only be a life sentence for this kind of act? If so, I do not agree to this kind of regulation. Because there must be some limits to the threat and some measures that we're taking against the perpetrator, so that he can have a chance... I'm not talking about a chance to cure, because pedophilia can't be cured, it's healing. And that's where we bow to an effective rehabilitation that we don't have. So the committee should also take care of this area. There was also a question here about how I assess the changes that have occurred in criminal law in recent years concerning protection against pedophilia. I judge them very highly. These are the changes that... These are milestones that have been taken over the last several years in protecting children from sexual crime. All these changes, which entered into force in 2009, were linked to the subsequent ratification of the 2007 Lanzarote Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Violence and Other Unfavorable Use. These are the provisions that entered into force in 2017 and were proposed in 2016 and developed... I participated in their drafting, I am the author of these provisions, which the Ombudsman presented in 2016 with a request for a legislative initiative, to the President of the Republic of Poland. And this initiative was taken by your president. These changes were mainly introduced by comprehensive criminal protection of children, i.e. to increase criminal sanctions for the most serious offences against children, to introduce a general directive on the age and subject, i.e. the child, in the judicial or judicial proceedings, a criminal measure. Finally, a very important change, which caused a lot of controversy, but it was a necessary change, which is the introduction of a legal obligation to notify law enforcement authorities by any person who learns about the preparation, attempted or perpetrated of a pedophilia crime. There's a three-year sentence for failure to notify. So here we have a tool, which is certainly also a warning for entities or institutions that have failed to notify law enforcement that a person who is part of this environment, institution or organisation has committed a crime. It is also a guarantee to the public that, if such a situation arises, the entity is required to notify the authorities. This is an additional protection that we guarantee the children, because it is a chance that the perpetrator, even if he wants to avoid responsibility and escapes from the environment in which he was in for various reasons, because either he is shifted, or he is leaving, he will take responsibility for the evil he has done. The next question I raised was an opinion on the pardon for pedophilia crimes. I think this: in principle, ladies and gentlemen, it should not be such a pardon, but only in principle, because we need to remember the emergency situations that might have happened. We do not yet know what circumstances would be involved in such situations. But that would be about specific things. However, I also think that, having the prerogatives to this extent, the President should be careful about the requests for pardon and should make very prudent decisions regarding the pardon on such matters. That's another line. It was about work. That's what I realized. I think that's what this is all about. After serving a sentence of imprisonment. Because when it comes to the work that a convicted man can do when he's serving a prison sentence in a penitentiary unit, that's the kind of regulation we already have. This is with the consent of the condemned. And I agree here with my previous speakers that we are bound by some international regulations. We have adopted these regulations into our legal order, we are a party here and the content of these documents binds us. Therefore, in the current state of law, there is no way that someone who is serving a prison sentence can force him to do so. I'll tell you more, the reality is that this job in the penitentiary unit doesn't have much. And even people who want to work, who show that will, can't work. Priority, ma'am, is given to persons who have been convicted of non-alination in employment in the penitentiary units and persons who have been convicted of some kind of cash or compensation for the victims. Therefore, I do not see such a possibility at the present time. About the possible period... This question can also be read in the context of work after punishment, in the context of renewal That's what I realized. The criminal penalty that the perpetrator has already carried out. I think that imposing an additional penalty... This is undoubtedly some kind of punishment for restricting freedom if we tell someone to work after they have been punished in full. I'd see the possibility, but for example. in a situation of conditional early release when the perpetrator is in the trial period. Then you could make such a commitment to him that he would show good will. Through work we can rehabilitate people, but provided that this work is done properly, that the conditions of this work are so established that they serve to rehabilitate the perpetrator. Thank you. I think I answered all the questions. Mr. Marshal, can I ad vocem? Excuse me, I'm here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u33	You're welcome, Senator, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u34	Because in the first part of the answer... Excuse me, Mr. Senator. The problem is that ad vocem... Your name would have to be mentioned. Yes, but I was identified in this reply in a clear way. You're welcome. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. There was an assessment of my question. I see. You're welcome. I would just like to say a little bit explanatoryly that we are at a point where we don't think about who the paedophile is or who the senator is in the opinion of asking a question, but who the candidates for the committee are. And that led me to ask you unobvious questions. This brought me closer to the answer to the question of whether the state would react to the evasiveness or whether they would grab the bull by the horns or whether they would respond to the attack. In this respect, I am satisfied with the answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u35	Thank you, Senator. If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, so do I. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u36	My question wasn't answered by your last candidate. It's about assessing, of course, a short, matrix of sexual education for the youngest age groups included in WHO standards.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u37	You're welcome. If the judge...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u38	Indeed, I'm sorry. I left it out of my mind. I think the matter of sexual education is very sensitive. She requires a really thoughtful approach, analysis, research, thinking about what the age limit should be. I think it will also be one of the committee's tasks to lean on this issue, discuss it. At the moment, it seems to me that the adoption of some strict metrics, standards, indications is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u39	Thank you very much. Please answer Mrs Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczana's questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u40	Literally two words about my kind of ground that lets me handle this case. I have actually worked at the University of Wrocław for about 33 years, but also in the psychological office, also for 33 years, having almost daily contact with children and adults who have been sexually abused or are currently sexually abused. Therefore, my response will be based largely on an analysis of what my patients or the mothers of my small patients, namely children, are telling me. I also want to stress that I work with both adults and children, because I often find that when a child reveals sexual violence, it is unfortunately still said that he fantasizes or that he has been taught it, gives false testimony, has a false memory Although the child has no false memory He was suggested to do what he had to say. Thanks to the fact that I also work with adults who were sexually abused in childhood, I know that what little children say actually happens in our world. Of course, I always have to make a very detailed psychological diagnosis, but... how to say it... socially I don't reject the fact that sexual violence exists, and I get the feeling that something like this often happens. I would also like to say that I have gained much of my knowledge abroad. I was lucky to have been internship in Canada for a year in 1995 and since then I have been going to the States about twice a year or to various more developed countries where this knowledge of sexual violence, the prevention of sexual violence, is much greater than that of us. You spoke from a legal point of view, and I will speak more psychologically, but I think that these two areas must work very closely together so that they can both be effective in combating sexual violence. As far as gender and LGBT ideology is concerned, I will not be different from my previous speakers. It doesn't really matter. We're not diagnosing whether or not we're helping... we're not diagnosing cases... We're not diagnosing ideology, we're diagnosing man regardless of his ideology. So it doesn't matter to me whether it's LGBT or if it's a person who speaks a different ideology. However, one thing I would like to stress is that the combination of LGBT, gender and pedophilia is very damaging to those who profess this ideology, because pedophilia and homosexuality, transsexuality, have no relationship. Unfortunately, often on TV or on the radio I hear that it is said that if someone is homosexual, it tends to have a greater tendency to be a pedophile. It is not true that homosexuals and heterosexuals are paedophiles, and it is absolutely impossible to combine homosexuality with paedophilia. And I think this is one of the issues where people should be educated very strongly. Second question: Am I vulnerable to pressure? For 33 years I have been dealing with both victims and perpetrators of sexual violence, generally domestic violence, of course I am also dealing with various other problems, not just sexual violence. And I think the only right thing to do is to make a good psychological diagnosis, regardless of who comes to me or who I diagnose as a forensic expert, an expert from an hour. Okay, I'm pointing out. And this is something that the committee should pay very much attention to, namely the good education of psychologists, educators, also lawyers, in terms of what it looks like, how the perpetrator works, how the child works sexually abused. I have a feeling that knowledge is negligible. Almost every day I meet in the office with people who support the child who say that it was sexually abused, and when I constantly hear the same information from these people, I draw the conclusion that actually the knowledge of lawyers, judges, many psychologists, educators is very poor. I think the committee should take care of this. I'm not vulnerable to pressure. From my point of view, it is for me to have a good, honest and professional diagnosis of a person, regardless of who comes to me or who will be sent to me. What's the legal status? I will refer to what I observe in the courts and what my patients complain about. Namely, unfortunately for some reason, mothers who hear from their children that this child was sexually abused By anyone, but of course the most difficult situation is when we talk about a father or a stepfather In principle, they are suspected of having some reason to falsely accuse their partner. The situation is better when an outsider is accused. It's said that mothers suggest to a child that it was sexually abused, that there was talk of alienation, that Gardner's syndrome, that's PAS. I have the impression that there's a great deal of pressure in the courts that mothers, women have a reason to accuse men or perpetrators or suspects, and you don't talk about it at all. I'll admit I haven't met with this. That the unsubs are manipulating. Of course it happens that mothers manipulate a child to falsely accuse a child, but it's also that if we have a suspect and psychologically the perpetrator of sexual violence, it's a master manipulator. He manipulates mostly from this angle so that no one believes a child and no one believes a mother. And that's a big problem that I feel like I'm not talking about in court. Unfortunately, I have to say that expert psychologists, expert psychiatrists don't diagnose this problem, just because the unsub manipulates the entire environment and that this is the master who can show everyone that he's innocent. In my opinion, it is very important to pay attention to this in the courts, i.e. there must be a balance between looking at the reporting person, but I am unfortunately talking mainly about mothers, because fathers are less concerned with it. And looking at a suspect or accused person who's doing everything she can to be acquitted, which is obvious, is also her right. Another point is that the so-called "diagnosis" is generally not taken into account in the courts. a psychologist of first contact. When the mother of anyone, the mother, the father, the guardian of the child It fears that sexual violence has occurred because this child reports or shows very severe symptoms of sexual violence, the first thing he does is run to a psychologist, so-called. a psychologist at first contact to find out if the child could actually have been harmed. First contact psychologists have different knowledge of the subject, so that the mother can run to a specialist. The specialist then writes an opinion on whether there was sexual violence or not... I'm sorry, I'm not writing, I'm not speaking right. He writes about symptoms and that symptoms are typical of a child sexually abused, because a psychologist cannot immediately issue a verdict. What's going on? The important thing is that such a first contact psychologist sees a child immediately after a possible act, and the symptoms of sexual violence as well as any other violence, but especially sexual violence, are visible outside for a month. After a month, they disappear outside. After a month these symptoms are internalized and of course they occur, but it is not easy to observe them with a single examination. I have the impression that the views of first contact psychologists are rejected by the courts, while the opinions of experts are taken into account. That's right. But these experts have access to the child and study the child sometimes after six months, sometimes after a year, sometimes when the child no longer has contact with the suspect, the symptoms disappear, the symptoms are not visible outside, and therefore the expert says that sexual violence has not occurred. In my opinion, I don't know how it can be... I'm not a lawyer, it's hard for me to talk about it. There should be such a thing as considering a psychologist's opinion of first contact, because he's the only one who can actually diagnose sexual violence. And I think the committee should also influence as many family psychologists as possible, i.e. first contact, to train as many psychologists as possible to diagnose whether the child has been harmed. What else? An important thing that unfortunately is not properly treated by psychologists, counselors or psychiatrists, and which the courts do not pay attention to, is that the diagnosis of the child takes place in the presence of the perpetrator. Whether it's in a family court or criminal court, either the unsub is sitting in the hallway, or the child is being brought with the unsub into the room where he's supposed to be diagnosed. And in every specialized book in this regard, it says that such a child does not have the slightest chance of revealing sexual violence. If the child sees the perpetrator in the hallway, if the perpetrator smiles at him in a specific way, the child will say nothing. And that's usually the diagnosis that the baby wasn't sexually abused. I use the word "criminal" because that's what psychology says. Of course, I should say suspected or accused, because the perpetrator is legally when he is convicted. And that's another thing that I think should be taken into account in some legal change. The judges should pay attention to whether the child was diagnosed without a suspect or in the presence of the suspect. It is known that the suspect must be diagnosed, it may be necessary to examine the child's relationship with the perpetrator, but first a diagnosis of the child should be carried out. If we need to see the child being molested so badly in the presence of the perpetrator who is seducing, such a diagnosis should take place after the diagnosis of the child. Well, I guess that's... Oh, well, I'm not gonna be divorcing about this anymore, but I'm having second thoughts about the probation officer himself, whom the child receives when the supporter reports sexual violence, because this probation officer reminds me of the fact that it's preconceived that the reporting person, the supporting person, is manipulative. The unsub doesn't get a probation officer. The next question was criminal policy. Maybe I'll start with rehabilitation, because it's something that, as you know, I do the most. Indeed, as far as the perpetrators of sexual violence are concerned, as you have said here, the effects of rehabilitation are negligible. But you have to diagnose very carefully what the perpetrator is, because we have those who are fixing and regressive. Fixative are those classic pedophiles. Their rehabilitation usually doesn't work. And there are regressors who are to be rehabilitated, only you need specialists to do that. I think there is one centre in Poland that deals with psychotherapy of the perpetrator of sexual violence. And again, we need to diagnose very well what kind of a person he has, and introduce good psychotherapy, good rehabilitation. Then there's a chance that the regressors will be able to control their behavior. I just want to point out that pedophilia isn't a mental illness, it's a disorder. We are talking about an illness, if that results directly from the fact that a person is not able to control his behaviour. And when we talk about disorder, then we emphasize that a person is able to control his behavior. Pedophiles are a disorder, not a disease. I know it probably matters to psychologists, but I think it also matters to society. Because when you talk about illness, people think they're poor people. And these are people who can control their behavior and who sexual violence is intentional and premeditated. I think there should be no statute of limitations, because often only people aged 30 or 40 are able to go to a psychologist and deal with sexual violence experienced in childhood, which was often drastic. They are often able to deal with this violence only at this age, because they did not receive any help in childhood or because, when they reported it to someone, they encountered denial. That this violence didn't really happen. So there should be no statute of limitations. As far as life goes, I don't really know. It seems to me that it depends on how this unsub's prognosis is, if there's a good psychological diagnosis indicating that this man is going to get out of prison and sexually molest other children, or give them a chance, and we have to give these people a chance, not just throw them out of jail. The pardon for the crimes of pedophiles... Yeah, I think so. We need to examine the state, and there should be close cooperation between psychologists and lawyers. It is necessary to examine the psychological state of such a person, and then make such judgments. When it comes to sexual education, I'm not getting divorced here. I believe that the main feature of sexual education should be to teach children from kindergarten not what sex looks like, but what other people's behavior is dangerous and who they might be looking for help with. Psychology describes the stages of psychosexual development and at each of these stages the child is in a certain way interested in sexuality. In my opinion, psychosexual education should be adapted to the development stages of the child, not to go out, so to speak, in front of the child, in front of the line. You have to watch your children and introduce elements of psychosexual upbringing according to your child's age. And what else? Work. I think the unsubs should be working. I'm not gonna... I know what the law is, because you've been paying attention to it, but the job is therapeutic. Work, if well organized, can stimulate the empathy of the perpetrators. Maybe, because if we're dealing with a psychopath, it won't stimulate any empathy. But work gives these people a chance to understand what they've done and learn to control their behavior. Of course, the right choice for a person's problems. I think... Didn't I answer any questions? I don't remember.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u41	Thank you very much. I'd like to inform you that Senator Alicia Chybick's question has yet to be asked. You're welcome, Senator. Remotely, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of the Senators! Grand Dear Candidates! I have a general question for all four of you. Will each of you, being our elected member of the committee, stand up for the welfare of the child? Will you or you fight to ensure that it is respected, in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child signed and ratified by Poland and the requirements of belonging to many international bodies, the right to dignity and all other rights contained in these codes? Because as you said, it is not quite so at the moment. And that is the first question: will the child always be the most important to you? It's a baby... Maybe I'll tell you why that's a question. Because a child versus a grown man, a paedophile has no chance of doing anything: he doesn't know the law, he doesn't know how to defend himself, he doesn't know how to testify, he can't do anything. This country should be guarding the welfare of this child. And if a final judgment is given, the question is whether or not to be pardoned. I know you've already answered. But really if someone... not someone, but judges. If the judges have issued a final judgment in a case that is precisely the case in which Goliath is colliding with something very small, innocent and little-knowing, should it be pardoned? Could there be grounds for pardoning an adult who has harmed a child? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u43	Thank you very much, Senator... That's actually two main questions. Thank you very much, Senator. Because I see that there are other senators who would like to ask a question, I might suggest a formula so that we can gather some questions and move on to the next round of answers of the honourable candidates. I think the senators will agree with this kind of proposal. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u44	Thank you very much. I think that this subject of the pardon by President Duda of a convicted person for his actions against a minor, plus, as we hear, a member of the family, is appalling. But I wouldn't want to get into the matter exactly, but I would like to ask you a question for Judge Hands. 'Cause I'm talking about some court practice. I think it is completely incomprehensible to society, also in the context of this pardon, as it happens, for example. A teacher who molests a student gets a lifetime ban on schoolwork, etc. In fact, many of our colleagues have advocated this kind of principle. In the meantime, a family molester returns to this family after punishment, and we think it's perfectly natural. Is this due to some legal shortage, or is it due to some dualization, some division of opinion in judicial case law and the fact that various types of paedophiles or child molesters are treated in completely different ways? I think that such a signal, which came from the President, will further strengthen the public's conviction that if a paedophile is, for example, a paedophile. A teacher or a celebrity, he cannot work with children later, he should have a lifetime ban on his profession, and if such a person does so in his family, he may return to this family. As an argument, I'm sorry, I'm almost done. It is said that this child is already an adult, so he is no longer a pedophile. But after all, this child can have a child, a granddaughter, family members, etc. So that's the question I'm asking you, Judge Hands, and maybe your psychologist, too, is referring to situations like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u45	Thank you very much. Are there any other senators who would like to ask a question? I'm just telling you, we're literally about to announce a break. Therefore, in order to avoid the need to interrupt your response and perhaps the impression that one of you will be more or less graciously treated by the High House, I will suggest and if I do not hear the voice of opposition, and I'm guessing that's what we're I'm not gonna hear it so we can announce this break a little earlier, which is right now. It would be a break until 11:30. This break was the subject of an agreement at the Seniors Convention. If you Senators would agree to such a solution, I would now announce a recess by 11.30. After the break, the honourable candidates will be gracious to answer the questions asked by Senator Chybick and Senator Zdrojewska. I think there's... there's four people, and the answers to the questions aren't gonna be one-on-one... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Dismissed until 11:30. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 51 to 11 minutes 33]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u46	I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that we are continuing to listen to the answers of the candidates to the questions of Senator Zdrojewska and Senator Chybicka. You'll answer the question. Then there will be further questions, and after the end of the questioning session at the request of the PiS club there will be a 15-minute break. Yes, Mr. Chairman? Thank you very much. Please continue to answer the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u47	The question was to protect the welfare of the child, whether the welfare of the child is always the most important. Here I would like to point out that in the article. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act on the State Commission is the text of the vows in which it is, among others. I will uphold the rights of the child, following the laws, the welfare of the child and the welfare of the family. I am a man who, when he says the words of his commitment, he keeps that commitment, which is why I can only assure you that, of course, according to the vow, I will uphold the rights of the child. At the same time, I would like to point out that, as I stress throughout my recruitment, it is very important for me to establish the truth and make a fair decision, and therefore I will also be careful that no one is spoken out. It is obvious that the child does not have full rights and that the state should protect them in particular, and take care of his interests a little differently than in the case of adults. Next question: Should people who committed a pedophiliac crime be pardoned? Well, I've already issued a negative opinion on that. That's the general opinion. In specific cases, in the case of a particular scope of pardon, I see this possibility, in particular when a positive opinion is expressed by the courts when the courts, before the pardon, refer such an opinion to the President. I also agree with your counsel here that the final decision is yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u48	Thank you very much. You're welcome to continue. Do any of you want to answer these questions? We still have... One more question is asked by Senator Gorgon-Komor. I'm sorry, but I asked two specific ladies, judge and psychologist, and I'd like to hear the answer. Oh, good, good. I thought those answers had been answered before. Well, in that case, I'm asking both ladies for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u49	Let me speak first, it will be alphabetically. However, I would return to the answer to the question of Senator Chybicka. To the first question I answer yes. The second question is also answered by yes. And this is the answer that I fully understand, fully accepted. I deal with human rights for more than 20 years and as a judge, and as a lawyer, also as a natural person who has been involved in this subject for a long time. And as we know, human rights begin with the rights of the child, which is that of dealing with human rights, and I also deal with the rights of the child. I've been working on the rights of a child in particular for 11 years. I am always in the position that a child, as a person of special sensitivity, sometimes infirmity, also requires special care, assistance and support from the state, as well as from us, adults. As far as the pardon is concerned, I've already indicated the answer. And I would like to emphasise here... In response to a question from one of your senators, I said that there should be no pardon in principle. This should not mean a ban. This should not be more than a statement that the President can do so, but far less than prohibiting the President from exercising this kind of prerogatives. I'm moving on to the second question Senator Zdrojewska asked. Here is the question of referring to a case, to a specific case, at least that's how I understood the senator. As a judge, in order to express my decision, decision or opinion, I would have to have an insight into all the documentation relating both to the case of the conviction and to the entire procedure that followed with regard to the perpetrator, with his process of therapy, which I hope he has undergone by serving prison sentences in the penitentiary unit. The question of the victims should also be considered, for the law of grace must never violate or violate the rights of the victims. If it were to violate, I'm sorry. The burden of this violation will rest on the president's shoulders when his decision to pardon someone was not fully considered when all the elements of such a pardon were not taken into account. I actually heard two versions of what happened in this particular case. I have also heard of the economic element, such that the convict who has already served a prison sentence will now take care of this family, and he will put it on the table. It seems to me that the material element concerning the maintenance should be considered at the very end. The most important thing is whether the victim, or whether this family sees the need and the need to make contact with the perpetrator. How much could it... Well, there's a chance that this kind of pardon will affect the life of the whole family. In this case, the perpetrator has already served the entire sentence of imprisonment. I'm only based on the press releases, so please release me from the categorical statements on this subject. This pardon only concerned a restraining order and a restraining order. It is regrettable to say that these two measures are unfortunately too rarely ruled by the courts as criminal measures. The courts very rarely also use this tool, which is aimed at the perpetrator, i.e. various correction and education programs, which result in a full, conscious change of the mindset of the perpetrator about the wrong and the wrong. If all these measures are not adjudicated together, it may prove that this pardon was just a drop in the sea of harm that the courts have done. The courts do not rule on certain measures, even though they have such a right, or actually an obligation, because they have to protect the victim first and foremost. This can cause even greater harm than such a pardon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u50	Thank you very much. I'd like Mrs. Widera-Wysoczańska's answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u51	Is a child always the most important? Yeah, the baby's always the most important thing in this whole thing. Unfortunately, most of them are against the baby. It is very often that the child is sexually abused, and the mother knows it, but does not help, does not support, does not reveal the perpetrator, does not lead to judicial or prosecutorial proceedings. If the mother takes such action, there will soon be many family members who will act against the child, against the child and against the mother. Unfortunately, I must pay most of my attention to the parents of the suspect reported by the child as the perpetrator. I don't think I've met... I'm sorry, I've only met a situation once in 33 years of my job that the mother of a suspect was on the side of a child. Usually a child is accused of fantasizing that he confabulates that he thinks he's repeating the words his mother said. If psychologists, lawyers or even committee members do not stand up for the child, it will not really have the chance to gain protection, there will be no chance of a healthy life. The consequences of sexual violence are dramatic. Of course I'm generalizing here. In various people sexually abused, these consequences are different, but in general these are dramatic consequences that go on throughout life. It is essential to act for the child, for the child's sake. I've been hearing about disturbing cases for a while. Well, some courts at a time when a child does not want to see his father for various reasons require his mother to go to a psychologist with him. The point is that this baby stays, let's call it, forced into contact with the father. It happens that neither the court nor the psychologist takes into account the opinion of a child who cries, screams, runs away, has nightmares, or shows a number of symptoms associated with his father, which he cannot invent. Nor are these symptoms that could arise as a result of a mother's suggestion that a child should not see his father. There are symptoms that may result from this, but there are also symptoms that result from processes that occur in the child, processes that are independent of the mother's actions, even if we believe that the mother may persuade the child to falsely testify. This is a terrible act, which I think is an unlawful act against the child. I could give you a lot of examples. Yeah, the baby's the most important thing because it's the weakest in this whole sexual violence situation. And when it comes to contacts, I don't hear about that anymore, but about 10 years ago, I heard that there were convictions... that the perpetrator of sexual violence was being suspended because he had to be with his family to support this family. And what did he do? Of course he was still sexually abused, and it's still under the law, because since the court allowed him to be in the family, he felt unpunished and took advantage of this situation. Again general, of course every case and every family must be considered separately, but I generally believe that the perpetrator of sexual violence should be prohibited from contacting a child who was sexually abused by him. Because there is such a thing as the dynamics of sexual violence and one of the elements in this dynamic of sexual violence is to make the child dependent on the perpetrator. They are addicted in various ways She's addicted to smiles, looks, gifts, words spoken, intimidation, guilt-enhancing children... And when the unsub comes home, the child becomes free, just as a result of such addiction. The mother too becomes free because she is also addicted by the perpetrator. The unsub should not be in contact with the child until this child undergoes therapy and is aware, once he is of age, that he would like to meet with the person who hurt him. That's my opinion. Otherwise, this drama continues. Because this unsub doesn't have to do anything that rarely happens anymore, and it's enough to make the baby's symptoms stronger. I would like to say another word about alcoholism, because it is often said that the perpetrator is sexually abused because he is using alcohol, and that when he treats himself when he no longer uses alcohol, he will control his behaviour and not sexually exploit it. Well, most often, pedophilia is primal. This means that a person is sexually abused because she was once so hurt. And she drinks because she's been hurt that way. The moment he starts... When he drinks, he loses control of keeping secrets. I mean, it's easier for a person like that to get caught using a child sexually. When he gets sober, he begins to control more of the secrecy and uses it further. So the unsub stops drinking, doesn't protect the child and the family at all. And it's worth remembering, too. I'm generalizing here again, because of course there are different cases, but I want to point out those cases that are the most dangerous to the child, and this child is to protect.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u52	Thank you very much. Last question and last person saved Mrs... May I, Mr. Marshal, comment again? You're welcome. Shortly, Mr. Counselor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u53	Just a little bit. I'd like to comment on the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, the preamble to the Act refers to the welfare of the child. This bill was created, among others. To protect the child's welfare. This is the chief, so to speak, the priority of this bill. That's why we didn't talk about it. I don't think it's like you said here that I'm quoting There is a poor state of knowledge of lawyers on this subject. Well, ladies and gentlemen, courts... Over the past few years, K.P.K. has been amended several times. and there are adequate guarantees for the proper judgment of these cases. I'm not gonna talk about them being so-called. safe rooms that children under appropriate conditions are being questioned, that such cases are, so to speak, subject to special custody by judges. I am a lawyer and I am far from defending the courts, but I have participated in several such trials and I know how this case looks from the practical point of view. I don't know why you're talking about such theories that these things are marginal. Alcohol is an incriminating circumstance, that's the record in the criminal code, and nobody changes that here. It's not an exculpation, it's an incriminating circumstance. As far as pardon is concerned, this is the President's institution, ladies and gentlemen. We may agree or not, but I believe that the institution itself should remain, has constitutional guarantees. The issue of decisions on a case-by-case basis is a completely different matter. We need to know exactly what the president was doing to talk about it right now. I don't know these conditions. In any event, the pardon institution should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u54	Thank you very much. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're not gonna argue between you. There's another question. Senator Gorgon asks them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In fact, it will be the continuation of Senator Zdrojewska's question. Judge Agnieszka Rękas and Ms Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska partially replied and these answers satisfy me as a senator and as a doctor, because for me the welfare of the child is the highest good. We're all in agreement here. Anyone who commits a criminal offence against minors should simply be punished, this should be made clear. I have a question about a particular case. Recently, we learned from a media report that President Andrzej Duda pardoned a paedophile who raped a minor relative. That's the media coverage. Of course, we're talking about circumstances... I'm not a lawyer. I have a question for the other two candidates. What is your opinion, in this particular case, on this pardon? Very specific and briefly, please respond. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u56	Thank you very much. Please keep in mind that this is a specific question that... We know as much as we know from the media, so that I don't expect you to have any particular diwags.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u57	If you don't mind... Please. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a practicing lawyer and I am shaping my judgments on the basis of a reading of the case file. I don't give an opinion about the media. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u58	Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u59	And me, referring to these media messages... First of all, I agree with my previous speaker, and I agree with the previous statement. Secondly, from the media, it appears that it was a criminal measure... That's what the pardon is about. Courts of 2 instances checked the file and gave a positive opinion to the President to give up this criminal measure by pardon. The pardon did not concern the very essence of the conviction, the fact that it is the guilty person and is entered in the criminal record. Like I said, pardon as the institution itself I support.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u60	Thank you very much. We're done with the questioning session. Thank you very much to all the candidates for their factual and well-conceived answers... Senator Ambrosik would like to ask you another question remotely. He applied to me, and I wrote to your secretary. Oh, good. I wanted to close this session, but we'll allow Senator Ambrozik to ask a question. I will remind you that after this session there will be a 15-minute recess and then we will proceed with the voting procedure, which I will speak about in a moment. Senator Ambrosik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u61	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you all how you perceive the concept of the good of the child, what is the concept of the good of the child for you, as you understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u62	Thank you very much. We do not require a definition from you, but in a short word, please speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u63	In my opinion, the welfare of the child is linked to the state's ability to provide the family with the opportunity to raise the child in a healthy atmosphere, in a healthy society, the right to their nationality, religion, to express themselves. The child's welfare in the context of this law is that the child should be protected by both family and state institutions against sexual acts, sexual offences.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u64	Thank you very much. Counselor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u65	I agree with my previous speaker. The child's welfare is a category that is included in the family code and caring, and it obliges us all, courts, all justice authorities, to be guided by the child's interests, its interests in a well-understood sense, i.e. security, adequate psychological protection. The child's well-being should be taken care of primarily by parents, that is the basic criterion of guaranteeing the child's well-being, and only if the parents are not able to secure that interest can an external institution enter, such as courts, curators or the committee now appointed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u66	Thank you very much. Judge Hands.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u67	In Polish law you will find no definition of the child's welfare. The child's well-being is shaped more by case law, specific situations that are aimed at meeting all the basic needs of the child: development, cultural, health, living and housing. An attempt to create such a definition was made by the Committee on the Codification of Family Law at the Ombudsman, then by Mr Mark Michalaku, who worked in 2013 and 2017 to develop a draft of a new family law Family law, which focuses primarily on the subjectivity of the child, the subjectivity of the family and the subjectivity of the parents. In this project is created a whole dictionary of concepts of family law, which so far have not been defined, and resulted more from practice and a specific understanding by a specific family court of the definition of the welfare of the child. In short, because I don't have this publication with me... This is a publication recently published by the Marshals' publishing house. I encourage you to read this project because there is a completely new philosophy of parental responsibility and the position of the child in the family, as well as in legal proceedings. The definition, which was created by the codification committee, states that the child's welfare is a set of conditions, circumstances and factors that affect the harmonious and proper development of the child, while maintaining positive educational situations in the family, as well as the principle of proper exercise of parental responsibility. I put emphasis on the word "responsible," because it is a completely different, full word when it comes to the relationship between a parent and a child than the concept that is currently being used in family law, that is, the concept of parental authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u68	Thank you very much. Ms. Agnieszka Widera-Vysoczańska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u69	I'm gonna focus on... Button. I will focus on those elements that are connected with this debate. So this is an upbringing in a functional family where the child is protected from emotional, physical, sexual violence, alcohol addiction, awareness - changing measures or pornography. Oh, yeah, we're not talking about pornography today. So this is guaranteeing a child's needs, which allows him to develop healthyly, and it is contact with these people, I am also talking about a father and a mother who guarantee the safety of the child, and, unfortunately, a complete or partial separation from those who threaten the welfare of the child, the good and emotional, and physical, and sexual. I think it is the child's welfare that is linked to the actions of psychologists who, through their knowledge, can lead to changes in the functioning of a parent who is a threat, so that the parent can communicate safely with his child, so that the child has both a mother and a father, of course, if such a situation is possible. Unfortunately, sexual violence is often no longer possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u70	Thank you very much. This concludes the questioning session. Before we proceed with the vote, I will announce a recess. After the break, I will ask for maximum focus, as the procedure for roll-call voting in 2 rooms, taking into account remotely cast votes, will require quite a detailed explanation. But I think we can overcome all these obstacles. Right now, I'm announcing a recess until 12.20. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 01 to 12 minutes 24]] Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of action against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. We are voting on the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of action against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. Let me remind you that according to the article. Article 6 (6) (a) 2 point 2 of the Act of 30 August 2019 on the State Commission for the Clarification of Acts Against Sexual Freedom and Vice-Presidentship against a minor under 15 years of age The Senate shall appoint 1 member of that committee by a majority of 3/5 votes in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of senators. I would like to inform you that according to the article. Article 53 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 Rules of Procedure of the Senate on this matter shall be held by roll-call vote, i.e. signed by the name of the cards. For the roll-call vote, I appoint Senators of the Secretaries: Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Richard Świlski. In a moment's time, the appointed senators will hand out their names to the senators. The senator can only support one candidate. The card should be marked with a single "x" under the name of the candidate to whom support is given. The vote shall be deemed void if more than one candidate is supported. At this point I would like to inform you that just now Mrs. Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska has decided to withdraw her candidacy for personal reasons. Therefore, The cards are ready, the names are in alphabetical order The fourth candidacy, Mrs. Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska, should not be considered by you. If, for some reason, someone puts a cross there, his vote will be deemed not to have been given, because Mrs Agnieszka withdrew her candidacy as part of her own decision. We will vote for three candidates, Mr Czarnecki and Mr Jagielski, and Judge Rękas. I hope that this communication has been heard everywhere and has also reached those who participate in the vote remotely. I now ask Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Secretary Ryszard Świlski to hand out the ballot cards to the senators in the Senate sitting room. Senator Alexander Swede, please hand out the ballot cards to the senators in room 217. The senators participating in the meeting will receive the cards electronically remotely. Please send the ballot cards to the names of the senators participating in the sitting remotely. Have all the states in the Senate sitting room received cards? I see... We still have a minute. Senator Chybick's signaling that the cards have arrived. They're being shipped right now. Did the state's IT guys send these... Now... At the moment, e-mails are being sent to senators voting remotely. Depending on the type of mail application... Sometimes you have to click "Download" to show up among the emails received. Please pay close attention to this. Have all the states in the Senate sitting room received cards? I take it you do. Did all the countries in room 217 receive cards? I've got a signal that... Yes, Mr. Marshal, they've all received cards. Thank you very much. Did all the senators participating in the meeting receive these cards electronically? I don't have a signal that I don't. I now ask your senators to fill out the cards. May I remind you that your fourth name, your candidates... Mr. Marshal! Yes? The senators suggest that the senators participating in the meeting in a remote way are in trouble. Please use a dedicated telephone line. Let me remind you that in some postal applications you need to press the icon now download to make this information appear. I'm asking you to check to see if any shipments have returned. The remotes already have... Yes? They confirm... Yeah, I hear the remotes confirm it. We still have some time, because this voting process is stretched over time. I'm asking you to fill out the cards now. I would remind you that Mrs Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska withdrew her candidacy, so that you kindly do not treat her as a candidate. Once the ballots have been completed, the senators present in the Senate sitting room in alphabetical order will throw the ballots in the ballot box. After the votes have been cast by the senators in the plenary room, Senator Ryszard Świlski will go with the urn to room 217, and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor will read the names of the senators in room 217 who will enter the urn in alphabetical order. States of the Senators taking part in the meeting remotely in accordance with Article. 67b. 1 point 4 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, please fill in the cards and then draw up the scan of the completed roll-call ballot and send the scan of the completed roll-call ballot to the address dedicated to the sitting. These cards will be printed and thrown into the urn by the Senators of the Secretaries. At the moment, I ask Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor to read in alphabetical order the names of the senators in the sitting room of the Sejm, the senators, please... Senate! Excuse me, senate. ...I ask the senators to go to the urn after reading their names and to put in the completed ballots for roll-call voting. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u71	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator Paweł Arndt, − Mr Marek Borowski, Mr. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Mr. Senator Jacek Bury, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, Mr. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, Senator Dorota Czudowska, Mr. Senator Arthur Dunin, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, Mr. Senator Benjamin Godyla, Senator Stanisław Gogacz, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Thomas Grodzki, Senator Jan Hamerski, Senator Jan Jackowski, Senator Michael Kaminski, Senator Stanisław Karczewski Not present, Senator Kazimierz Klein, Senator Maria Blanket, Senator Magdalena Kochan, Senator Władysław Komarnicki, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski Not present, Senator Stanisław Józef Lamczyk, Senator Jan Libicki, Mr. Senator Robert Mammoth, Senator Marek Martynowski, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, Senator Stanisław Ożog, Mr. Senator Marek Pak, Senator Zdzisław Pupa, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Jarosław Rusiecki, Senator Janina Sagatowska, Senator Joanna Sekuła, Mr. Senator Michael Sewerinski, Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz, Mr. Senator Adam Szejnfeld, Mr. Senator Rafał the locksmith, Mr. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, Mr. Senator Kazimierz Wind, Mr. Senator Joseph the Hare, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, Mr. Senator Wojciech Potato, Mr. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. That's all of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u72	Have all the senators present in the sitting room, in the plenary room, given their votes? I now ask Senator Richard Świlski to move with the urn to room 217. When we see the senator in this room, the senator secretary will read the names of the senators in room 217 in alphabetical order. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The urn is already in room 217. I ask the senator secretary to read the names of the senators in room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u73	Senator Halina Poor, − Senator Richard Bober, − Mr Marcin Bosacki, − Mr Wiesław Dobkowski, − Mr. Senator Victor Durlak, − Senator Eve Gawada, − Senator Mariusz Gromko, − Senator Jolanta Hibner, − Senator Bogdan Klich, − Mr. Senator Wojciech Necessary, − Senator Józef Łyczak, − Senator Richard Majer, − Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, − Senator Ewa Matecka, − Mr. Senator Krzysztof Frost, − Senator Andrzej Spider, − Senator Janusz Błucherz, − Senator Wojciech Piech, − Senator Alexander Pociej, − Mr Senator Sławomir Rybicki, − Senator Alexander Swed, − Senator Ryszard Świlski, − Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, − Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, − Mr. Senator Jerzy Wczyła, − Mr. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u74	Thank you very much. Have all the senators in O.R. 217 cast their votes yet? Preview indicates yes. Then I ask Senator Richard Świlski to return with the urn to the sitting room. I ask the secretaries to print out the names of the senators attending the sitting remotely. I ask the senators of the secretaries to verify that all senators participating in the sitting have remotely sent the scans of the cards, and to place the printed cards in the urn. A short technical break for this operation, we'll wait for a moment. We're slowly approaching the end. I'm asking the senators to vote remotely for special attention. We already have the vast majority of cards. I inform about the cards that have not yet reached us, and I read the names of the senators: Bogucki, Chróścikowski, Komorowski, Kopeć, Kopiczko, Łuczak, Mężydło, Staroń and Włosowicz. One card, probably one of those people, is enlarged and we don't see a name. Please, I'll show her to the camera right now. There's a named vote here, but we don't know who gave it to him. Maybe one of the voters will recognize remotely that this is his card. Please note that you do not see the name of this person, because the expansion of the card is too big. If no one identifies with this card, it will be considered a void vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Man hasn't received a ballot yet. There's information here. Good. Please check again to see if... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, Luczak is to be decorated. No, no. It's not a Łuczak... He's not decorated... Well, then his voice came. Good. Now he's here. Let's go to the urn. [[Talking in the O.R.]] See if you got the Senator Man's card. We can't see again... It's the same situation. Someone sent the card and you can't see the name. Looks like someone sent us a card in such a form that we don't see a name. Please add your name by hand, because the card is too enlarged and you can't see the top part, so we don't know who's voting here. And obviously someone recognizes their card because it's the second time she's come. That could settle it. Is that the elimination route? I can read those people who... I can't hear you, Senator. You're welcome to the mike... Mr. Marshal, the other voices of the remote voters have come down, so it will be the voice of the person who... Yeah, but there's a few of those people whose cards haven't arrived yet. We don't know whose... Oh, they haven't arrived yet. Well, if they didn't make it, then... I repeat, whose cards haven't arrived yet. Maybe these people don't want to vote, but we want to give them time. These are pleno titulo senators: Bogocki, Chróścikowski, Komorowski, Kopeć, Kopiczko, Mężydło, Staroń and Włosowicz. It's probably one of those people's cards, but we don't know which one. We know, we know... [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is Senator Włosowicz, isn't it? Good. It's gonna be okay now. Okay, okay. There's one more thing I want you to check. Senator Man signals he didn't get the card at all. We don't have any other signals like that. Jacek Włosowicz, yes. She got here this time with her name on it. Senator Włosowicz's card. Thank you very much. We'll wait another six minutes until 1 p.m., and then we'll have an hour's break so you can eat, and the senators will eat. I'll count the votes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Komorowski, Kopeć, Staron... Yeah, but it's been read before... It was read... They're watching the session. I read it in public twice. If they're sitting and watching, then... Senator Bogucki's voice has arrived. Yeah, we wait, we wait. The vote is closed. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate their votes and draw up a roll-call vote. Before ordering a recess, I again ask the senators to be present when announcing the results of this vote because of the possibility and likelihood of a second round of voting. I'm ordering a recess until 2:00 p.m. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 59 to 14 minutes 03]] I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of action against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. I would like to inform you that the senators of the Secretaries have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a roll-call vote. I'm declaring the results. The minutes of the roll-call vote of 2 July 2020 on the appointment of a member of the State Commission for the purpose of clarifying cases of action against sexual liberty and customs in relation to a minor under 15 years old. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Aleksander Swed and Senator Ryszard Świlski, state that 93 votes were cast in the roll-call vote on the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15, including 92 valid votes. The required majority of 3/5 is 56 votes. 26 senators voted in favour of Mr Adam Czarnecki's candidacy, 14 senators voted in favour of Mr Marian Jagielski's candidacy, 51 senators voted in favour of Ms Agnieszka Rękas' candidacy. Let me remind you that Mrs Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska withdrew her candidacy. None of the candidates obtained the required majority of 3/5. Therefore, the second round of voting will now be held. In accordance with the Act and the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the vote shall be held again with the participation of those 3 candidates who are notified Okay, let me remind you that one person has withdrawn. The Senate shall appoint a member of the committee by simple majority. We proceed to the second round of roll-call voting on the appointment of the committee mentioned. In a moment, the senators will hand out the cards to the senators for the second roll of the roll-call vote. Let me remind you that the senator can only support one candidate. I would like to inform you that a vote card with the name of each of the candidates should be marked with one of the marks "x" on it. A vote for a candidate will be considered invalid in the absence of any.x. mark under the name of the candidate concerned, as well as in the presence of more than one mark at the name of the candidate. If more than one candidate is supported, the votes for these candidates shall be deemed null and void. I ask Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Senator Ryszard Świlski to hand out the ballot cards to the senators in the Senate sitting room at the moment. At the same time, I ask Senator Alexander Swede to hand out the ballot cards to the senators in room 217. Mr. Marshal! Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u75	We don't have eyes on the pleural room in room 217. And I would also like to ask one question on the question of voting, if I may. Yes. We've got four candidates on the charts, after all. I understand we're supporting one candidate. But in the case of other candidates, we can vote against or abstain. And I would like to ask how it will be when, in the case of 1 of the 3 candidates who take part, we vote in favour and will be, for example. Two votes against or two votes against, and the senator in question, in the case of Ms Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska's candidacy, i.e. the candidate who withdrew, will mark for example. I'm against it or I'm holding back. Will such a voice be important? Never mind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u76	Only a voice with a single mark, placed next to one candidate in whatever box is an important voice. It would take another hour and a half to prepare new cards without Mrs. Widera-Wysoczańska. I remind you that Mrs Agnieszka Widera-Wysoczańska withdrew her candidacy. Below these squares it is clearly written how many stamps you can put on But, Mr. Marshal, the question was different. What will happen to a voice like that if just one of the characters "x" is placed in front of your candidate who has withdrawn? Yes. This vote will be deemed to be a vote that has not been cast against anyone. Because there's no candidate. Yes. [[...]] That's what I said in front of... Or it won't matter. Does it matter or doesn't matter? No, it's gonna be a failure to vote for any candidate. No, we still don't understand each other. You're asking me if I'll consider this vote important or not. That's what I'd have to ask your legislator. The question of choice is undoubtedly simple. It's a vote that's not given to anybody. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And according to the interpretation I asked for during the break, this voice is... this card is invalid. Mr. Marshal, can I ask you a question? Because here, on the chart, it's quite different. Marcus, call it in. Listen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm listening. Mr. Marshal! [[Talking in the O.R.]] But it's happened once before. We've voted like this once. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, may I? Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u77	Mr. Marshal, because, as usual with this vote, there are always problems, it may be necessary to say once again that this is a card constructed differently than the previous one. That's what everyone sees. This is a majority vote, not an absolute vote, and therefore with each name it must be a "x" vote. Only that with 1 name at the time, and with the others. either at the counter, or at the counter. There can't be a situation that there's no "x" with one name, because then there's a vote that doesn't matter. Mr. Senator, but everyone knows that. We're asking if putting a sign, a cross in any of the boxes in front of your candidate who has withdrawn, cancels that vote, or makes it important? I don't know, I don't talk about it, but because I heard other voices here... Because this card is misleading.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u78	Mr. Marshal, we really should order an hour-and-a-half and prepare cards with three names. No. What for? Well, if we're a House of special prestige, that's what we should do. Please give me... Please... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal Pop, please let me finish. If you decide by order vote that such a solution should be introduced, I will announce a break of about 1.5 to 2 hours to prepare the cards without... with 3 names. Translation in plain language: the candidacy is withdrawn and as if it were not there, it does not matter when it comes to the choice of person, because this candidate withdrew her candidacy. This is only relevant to the calculation of the majority. 'Cause if we pass the cards with the "x" stamp on Mrs. Wysoczańska's voice cards, we're going to calculate most of them differently than when we don't score these cards. That's the question. The legislator tells me that such a card should be scored, provided that other votes are given correctly, i.e. there are no 2 crosses at 1 candidate. And that's the interpretation we take. If anyone hasn't heard . a 5 times has been repeated That Mrs. Vysochańska withdrew her candidacy, let her put that cross there. If it does not put it at all, it will be the correct solution, because in fact this candidacy does not exist. If he puts a cross at the counter, whether I hold back or not, this vote will be counted, provided that each candidate receives the 1x sign. Is that understandable and clear? Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. So very... Please, I ask you to hand out these cards. The senators participating in the meeting will receive the cards electronically remotely. Please send these ballot cards to the names of the senators participating in the sitting remotely. For their needs, I would remind you that 1 stamp is to be placed at 1 candidate. Yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] On the tab Please read the instructions below these squares It is a bold written: on a card with the name of each candidate you should put 1 character on it. I remind you... No, Mr. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u79	Mr. Marshal, I'm on a formal issue. Could we please... Mr. Marshal, I would suggest... I may not even do this in the form of a formal proposal, but I would suggest that we conclude a discussion that may give our constituents the impression that there is something wrong with the sanity of the participants in this debate. Because I feel like there's a being... Oh, come on. But, yeah, it's... But no, no... But, gentlemen, or we take each other seriously... You can't do that. Or we take each other seriously and... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But, Mr. Marshal, I mean, I have the vague impression that I'm saying this with all due respect, some of our colleagues are looking for an excuse to do, let's call it... Young people say to smoke, and I would call it calling it an unnecessary ambaras in our House of Reflection. Because I don't, and I don't think any of us have the sense that anybody's trying to trick someone into something. I have the impression that we can quietly finish the vote, whose rules everyone, I believe, understood, and not keep looking for a reason to make smoke. But, Mr. Marshal, not just voters, first-class high schoolers are gonna be giggling, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u80	Have all the states in the Senate sitting room received cards? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Senator Skurkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u81	Mr. Marshal, I come forward because I honestly believe that this ballot is full of contradictions. If Mr. Marshal will allow me to read the first two sentences, the Senator can only support one candidate, and then the card with each candidate's name should be marked with the "x" mark. [[Speech in the background of the recording]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Well, ladies and gentlemen... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Keep going. Ladies and gentlemen, these really are not unambiguous, but ambiguous, because... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I don't know what's so funny about Mr. Dunin that he's laughing. I don't know what's so funny. I think what's going on here, in this room, with the votes... The same presentation of the ballot of one of the senators so that it was known how he voted... What's the secret of this vote if the marshal shows the ballot and then says that the senator voted yes and yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me. What are you doing with the Senate?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u82	Quiet, please. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Quiet, please. You're wrong. This card didn't show a name, and it just served to show... You said that... I'm not giving you the floor. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm not giving you the floor right now. Minister... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me, I'm talking now. If you do not understand the view that the senator can only support one candidate and that under the names of other candidates he is to put the sign "x" on the counter or "I hold back" if you do not understand that the models of these cards have been approved by the Senior Convention, in which the Law and Justice have two representatives, and no one has objected to the model of these cards, then you are not actively involved in the Senate's life. We'll proceed with further... ...in the Senate's life, certainly not, Mr. Marshal, certainly not. But don't yell, come on! [[Voice from the room: But how do you speak! The marshal says we're...]] Insane. ...you say we're screaming. Ladies and gentlemen, where are we? What are you doing? I'm in favour of Senator Skurkiewicz talking more often. Have all the states in the Senate sitting room received cards? I take it you do. Did all the countries in room 217 receive cards? Yes, Mr. Marshal, they've all received cards. Thank you very much. Have all the senators participating in the meeting received cards electronically remotely? I understand you're not hearing any reports of a missing person. I now ask your senators to fill out the cards. I remind you again, I read what's on the chart. The senator can only support one candidate. A card with the name of each candidate should be marked with one A vote for a candidate shall be deemed to be void in the absence of any sign of "x" under the name of the candidate concerned, placing at the name of the candidate more than one "x" mark. If more than one candidate is given the support, i.e. twice or three times the cross of the vote, the votes for these candidates will be considered null and void. It is written as simple as possible in Polish. Once the cards have been completed, the senators present in the sitting room will enter the ballot box alphabetically, and after all the senators in the plenary room have given their votes, Senator Świlski will pass with the urn to room 217, and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor will read the names of the senators in room 217. States of the Senators taking part in the meeting in a remote manner, in accordance with Article. 67b. 1 point 4 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure, please fill in the cards and then draw up the scan of the completed roll-call ballot and send the scans of the completed roll-call ballot to the address created for the sitting. These cards will be printed and thrown into the urn by the Senators of the Secretaries. I would like to inform you that after all the cards have been collected, there will be another recess, probably a little shorter than the one-hour one. I now ask that Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor read in alphabetical order the names of the senators in the Senate sitting room. And I ask your senators, after reading their names, to go to the urn and to put in the completed ballots for the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u83	Senator Paweł Arndt, − Mr Marek Borowski, − Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, − Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, − Senator Jacek Bury, − Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, − Mr. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski, − Senator Dorota Czudowska, − Mr. Senator Artur Dunin, − Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, − Mr Stanisław Gawłowski, − Senator Benjamin Godyla, − Senator Stanisław Gogacz, − Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, − Mr. Senator Tomasz Grodzki, − Senator Jan Hamerski, − Senator Jan Maria Jackowski He's not here. − Senator Michał Kaminski, − Mr Stanisław Karczewski, − Mr Kazimierz Kleina, − Senator Maria Koc, − Senator Magdalena Kochan, − Senator Władysław Komarnicki, − Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, − Mr Stanisław Lamczyk, − Mr. Senator Jan Libicki... We have to approach. We'll be right there. ...Senator Robert Mamotkow, − Mr Marek Martynowski, − Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, − Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, − Senator Stanisław Ożog, − Mr. Senator Marek Pęk, − Senator Zdzisław Pupa, − Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, − Mr Jarosław Rusiecki, − Senator Janina Sagatowska, − Senator Joanna Sekuła, − Senator Michael Seweryński, − Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz, − Mr. Senator Adam Szejnfeld, − Senator Rafał the locksmith, − Mr Kazimierz Ujazdowski, − Mr Kazimierz Wind, − Senator Joseph the Hare, − Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, − Senator Wojciech Zietniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u84	Have all the senators present in the plenary room cast their votes yet? If so, I will now ask Senator Richard Śvilski to go with the urn to room 217, and Senator Secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor will read in alphabetical order the names of the senators in room 217 as soon as the urn is there. The urn is already in room 217. Please read the names alphabetically.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u85	Senator Halina Poor, − Senator Richard Bober, − Mr Marcin Bosacki, − Mr Wiesław Dobkowski, − Mr. Senator Victor Durlak, − Senator Eve Gawada, − Senator Mariusz Gromko, − Senator Jolanta Hibner, − Senator Bogdan Klich, − Mr. Senator Wojciech Necessary, − Senator Józef Łyczak, − Senator Richard Majer, − Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, − Senator Ewa Matecka, − Mr. Senator Krzysztof Frost, − Senator Andrzej Spider, − Senator Janusz Błucherz, − Senator Wojciech Piech, − Senator Alexander Pociej, − Mr Senator Sławomir Rybicki, − Senator Alexander Swed, − Senator Ryszard Świlski, − Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, − Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, − Mr. Senator Jerzy Wczyła, − Mr. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u86	Mr. Senator... Have all the senators in room 217 cast their votes yet? According to the preview, yes. I ask Senator Richard Świlski to return with the urn to the plenary room. I will ask the secretary Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor to print the names of the senators taking part in the sitting remotely. I ask the senators of the secretaries to verify that all senators participating in the sitting have remotely sent the scans of the cards and tossed the printed cards into the urn. For this purpose, I am announcing a short technical break. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 27 to 14 minutes 35]] I'm reopening the session. I'll inform you that all the cards have already been handed over, printed and thrown into the urn. I now ask the senators of the Secretaries to calculate their votes and draw up a roll-call vote. Let me remind you that the announcement of the results will take place immediately after the votes have been counted. I'm ordering a recess until 3:00. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 35 to 15 minutes 16]] Please take your seats. I'm reopening the session. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of action against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. I would like to inform you that the senators have completed the calculation of votes and have drawn up a roll-call vote. The minutes of the roll-call vote of 2 July 2020 on the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of action against sexual liberty and customs in relation to a minor under 15 years of the second round. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Aleksander Szwed, Senator Ryszard Świlski, states that 96 votes were cast in the roll call for the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. 90 important votes were cast in the vote on Mr Adam Czarnecki's candidacy. 24 senators voted in favour, 51 against, 15 abstained. In the vote on Mr Marian Jagielski's candidacy, 89 important votes were cast, 13 senators voted in favour, 55 against, 21 abstentions. The vote on Ms Agnieszka Rękas' candidacy cast 91 important votes, 52 senators voted in favour, 32 against, 7 abstentions. [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the appointment of a member of the State Commission to clarify cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 and has elected Judge Agnieszka Rękas as Judge. Congratulations, and I would like to ask you to approach the president's table. I'd like to give your judge a resolution on the appointment. [[Marshal Tomasz Grodzki gives Judge Agnieszka Rękas a resolution on the appointment by the Senate of a member of the State Commission for the investigation of acts against sexual freedom and decency towards a minor under the age of 15]] [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u87	We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Minister of Foreign Affairs's information on the conduct of the vote in the Presidential elections of 2020. A government representative was invited to this item, but I see that there is no minister or deputy minister. There's a director of the Consulate Department, Mr. Łukasz Lutostanski. Mr. Director, the situation is extremely ambarassing because the Senate specifically requested information from the Foreign Minister. And let me remind you that according to the article. The 9th Council of Ministers Act should be given such an authorisation by a member of the Council of Ministers. A good practice in the Senate was also that when it comes to such information, it comes and presents it to a member of the government at least in the rank of Undersecretary of State. Therefore, I very, very much thank the Director for coming, but in such a situation we will not listen to such information, because we maintain the seriousness, rank of the Senate and good customs. Nevertheless, thank you very much, Mr. Director, for coming. You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u88	I have a question for the Director: why didn't the Minister or the Deputy Minister come?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u89	I think even if the principal knows... but I don't think he has that kind of knowledge why the minister didn't come. No... Of course. No, there's no such thing... the director isn't responsible for the minister. The principal got, of course... Mr. Marshal, there is one thing: Minister... Did the Minister write anything? ...you've been appointed by the director, but at least the Undersecretary of State should come. I don't think we can burden your director with answering what the Minister meant. So I don't think we're gonna be asking your principal about that kind of information. Would any of you like to take the floor on this item? You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Klich. So this is a discussion? Well, in general, this item on the agenda won't be... no, there won't be any information. I therefore, of course, open a discussion on this subject without this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u90	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! It's probably some kind of electoral disease that gets not the first minister of this government, because we've been waiting to hear from the finance minister about the state of public finances that are in a difficult situation. We were waiting to hear from the Foreign Minister about the dramatic situation of our fellow countrymen abroad, which appeared during the first election tour. The other thing is that this expectation is not just a senate expectation, because the Senate and the Sejm were waiting... We've been waiting before for the presence of Judge Przyłębska, who has also ignored us. Finally, one of the presidential candidates, Mr Trzaskowski, was waiting, but he did not wait for the public debate before the second part of the election with President Andrzej Duda. I firmly believe that they are conscious of evasiveness, that they are conscious of evasiveness, and that you, Marshal Karczewski, would best tell us what it comes from. That's what comes from fear. And that's why I'd like to ask you right now... Who? ...from the minister's distance: what are you afraid of? But who is it? What he's afraid of is the management of the department... Whoa, whoa, Could I have a word with you, Mr... Don't shout, Mr. Marshal, please. But, Senator, I will maintain order in the courtroom. Let me do it. I would very much ask your senators to... ...restraint. ...restraint and not to disturb. You're welcome. Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. You have to ask this question: what are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? Do you fear those words of truth that we have been saying for a long time, which concern the situation of public finances, or what happened in the first round of elections when it comes to voting abroad? Well, ladies and gentlemen, there have been very serious irregularities, really very serious irregularities. I'm saying this based on statistics, I'm saying this based on numbers that never lie. I am also saying this on the basis of the data mentioned by the director himself at the meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Namely, as many as 17% of our compatriots abroad were deprived of the right to participate in the election of the President. About 63 000 of the over 380 000 registered have not been recognised for voting and we assume they have sent electoral packages. Till 17% votes were not recorded by the electoral committees abroad. This may not apply to all cases, but in a large majority they are votes that have not been recognised by the electoral committees. Here I have over 100 complaints from our citizens about this process, individual and collective complaints. We need to answer the question of where these complaints came from and why. Because these complaints arose for two reasons. This comes first from the decision of the Sejm. The majority of PiS-owska decided that those who would vote in these elections would not have 9 days, but 6 days. Well, there's a fundamental difference between 9 and 6 days to send your voice back, especially since two days came for the weekend. In fact, in most cases, these people only had four days to exercise their electoral rights. It was a legislative scandal. In addition, the political leadership of the Ministry has not prepared diplomatic posts to do such a huge job in such a short time. It didn't work out despite heroism. I don't hesitate to use that word. Our diplomats and staff. There were facilities where they worked for several dozen hours. There were 40 hours of continuous work at a facility in London. Notabene no one provided these people with food. To carry out this great duty. This chaos, which reigned during the first election tour, is burdened by the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I have no doubt that this chaos has reduced the possibility for our fellow countrymen to vote abroad. Let me repeat: the electoral committees did not take into account the votes of 63 000 people. Despite this, we had to deal with the big election break of Polonia, the election break that has not yet been. This must be addressed with great respect, even paying tribute to our fellow countrymen abroad, who have decided to be involved in these elections in such a way, in the course of one day. After the first round of elections, 132,000 people registered, 132,000 additional people who want to participate in this great change, which I hope will be witnessed in the near future. Our compatriots abroad care about what is happening in Poland, our compatriots abroad want to return to better Poland and probably from here this break. It's never been like this before that half a million people have volunteered for the election. I'm talking about all this. On the one hand, about the mistakes of the political leadership of the Ministry, and on the other hand about the great dedication of our employees to diplomatic institutions and the fantastic involvement of Polonia It's just to say that this can't happen in the second round. That can't happen in the second round. I would like to make the most of it without getting into the details, the expectations we formulated at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and which I believe must be repeated in this Chamber. Firstly, we believe that additional electoral committees should be set up because the number of existing ones is simply not enough. It's about 132,000 extra people who want to vote. With these delays and those problems that were before, this number of committees is not enough. Create new election committees. Secondly, we expect to distribute the electoral packages by tomorrow night at the latest, i.e. until the evening of Friday 3 July 2020 If they're not sent, it'll happen again from the first tour. The people of the They just won't be able to send their votes back in time and those votes will be gone. Thirdly, we expect the hotline to start. I think my colleagues are gonna talk about it. This is an expectation that we've been expressing for about two weeks. Run a hotline for all Poles abroad. Fourthly, we expect the universal and personal return of electoral cards to consulates by 9 p.m. on 12 July. What does that mean? This means that consulates should receive from those who have received voting packages in correspondence, also voting cards personally. Every Pole and every Pole who wishes to cast their vote in person should have the right to personally deliver this vote to the consulate. The epidemiological situation has changed radically, in many countries these restrictions, which were at the beginning of June, when the Minister prepared his regulation, no longer apply. Open consulates, give Poles abroad the right to exercise their right to elect a president. That's what we're calling for, that's what we're asking for. Just so we're clear. If there are similar situations as in the first round of voting, then we will account for it by the government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Pupa volunteered during the speech, which is why I didn't let you speak immediately. Did you want to file a motion, or do you have a question? Did you come forward for discussion?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u92	I'm here on a formal matter. Senator Klich was accusing... and he asked, "What are you afraid of?" Well, I'm not afraid of Mr. Klich, I have no reason to fear Mr. Klich. The rhetoric he's using, it doesn't make sense... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Sir... The wrong address, it's not the High House that's here... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u93	Dear Senator, when I conduct my deliberations, I allow in a free speech, in a discussion of senators, such as. Yesterday, mostly from you, various rhetorical figures. Yesterday, I didn't pay any attention to any of your speakers, despite repeating certain figures. And I won't pay any attention to the senator either. [[Applause]] There are questions about something else. They must be concise and short And something else is a free speech in the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! My speech is a fulfillment of the commitment given to dozens of Poles, coordinators, who in the presidential election in 2020 helped Poles living abroad to get through sloppy election procedures prepared by the PiS government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which on the one hand made it very difficult for workers of embassies and consulates to work, and on the other hand introduced incredible chaos in which voters abroad could not find themselves. In view of the time constraints, these comments will only be made in a few points. One such negligence was a 13-day delay. What was it? Well, on 3 June, Marshal Witek announced the election date, until 9 June, there was no information about the electoral procedure for Polonia and only on 16 June the election packages arrived. What were they doing for 13 days? According to the government, the elections were already ready for May 10th, a month earlier. Why, then, did these delays serve? Information on the procedure was not clear. I looked at these in various countries, and I was surprised by the lack of coherence. You couldn't call the consulate or the embassy to get an explanation, because the phones were only open for three or five hours, usually until 1 p.m., sometimes once a week until 4 p.m. Automatic information was received for requests sent by e-mail: we have 14 days to answer. The registration was difficult. Let me remind you: it was possible to register by phone, e-mail or by a system that was constantly suspended and even rejected the registration. Spectacular was the suspension of the system more than 2 hours before closing the registration of all those who did not vote in the first round, but want to vote in the second round. There were a lot of cases that people registered for the vote on 10 May were not automatically registered, even though it was mandatory. The choice of form of voting was inadequate in relation to the situation in the country concerned in relation to COVID-19. The case of the United Arab Emirates is a curious example. In a country where no movement was allowed, it was only possible to vote in person. There was also a commission in Abu Dhabi in this country, and there was no commission in Dubai, where there was more than 80% of the population. Poles; they are very often pilots and stewards. The pandemic situation is changing in most countries. The restrictions were suspended, among others. in the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland and Norway. Only correspondence voting is still possible in these countries. Although the Ministry has risen from its knees, it is still difficult to change government notes in cooperation with governments of other countries and to notify more friendly forms of voting for Poles. Why is this so important? There are very serious problems with sending electoral packages and returning envelopes with a voice and a statement. What are the problems? The Ministry assured us that it had chosen the most reliable, fastest-functioning postal and courier companies and especially during the pandemic, when the implementation of these services was extended for up to 8 days, but it provided certainty that voters would be able to send back their votes. So in many, many, counted in thousands of cases did not happen. Enough of that, the obligation to ship was not fulfilled by June 22nd. There have been cases, especially in France, that the stamp on the envelope was dated June 23rd. In this case, the Ministry failed again, not giving its staff at consulates enough time to send them in time and even before the deadline. Well, these actions were clearly abandoned, which made it more difficult for not only voters to work. The nipple of this negligence is the fact that thousands of people did not reach the packages before the first tour, among others. France, Germany, Spain, the UK, Canada, the United States, Madagascar. I could list many, many other countries. In turn, it was too late to receive the package before the first round that made it difficult to send a return letter with a voice within the prescribed time limit. The voters could only use express mail or courier mail in order to get there in time. How much did one vote cost? 2.60 Euros, $8.120, PLN 40.240. This was the price of one vote as a result of the preparation of elections abroad. How, then, did the countrymen cope? They'd make contacts, they'd get together, they'd send bulk packages. In the UK, they registered a non-profit courier company to ensure that Poles send their votes on time and reduce their costs, even eliminating them. And how many Poles were excluded from the vote by the Ministry's easy preparation of procedures? Are those more than 62 thousand Poles whose votes did not arrive on time? In order to facilitate the return of voice mail, we repeatedly asked the Ministry to place in front of the circuit board a box to which return packages could be inserted. That was a very strong appeal from Marcin Bosacki. Unfortunately, only in a few consulates, embassies appeared. In the opinion of Polish coordinators, in most cases this was the result of the good will of the consul himself. Why did the Ministry not want to make it easier for Poles living abroad to deliver their votes in elections? Did the halving of the number of circuit boards have a political purpose? This question in the context of the results of the first tour abroad has a completely different importance than it had before the first tour. A further meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee was held yesterday to assess the preparation of the election procedure abroad. No minister came to the meeting. Why? At the meeting, we asked once again to increase the number of committees, to increase staff at consulates, so as to ensure that consulates staff are given the best possible conditions to improve the dispatch of electoral packages to the second round. We have asked that wherever possible be abolished, only correspondence voting and personal voting be allowed, so that whenever there is only correspondence voting, mailboxes are placed. It may, with the exception of the United Arab Emirates, facilitate packaging and reduce additional costs for Poles, or, in some cases, very high costs, for them to give up the so-called. transparent envelopes that made it possible to assess who was voted for before opening. There were dozens of these cases in the United States. Finally: we asked to allow 500 thousand Poles to register for the second round to send their votes on the second deadline before the deadline for completing the package shipment. What did we hear 7 working days before the vote? That there's an analysis going on in the ministry, talking about possible changes. So when will the Minister inform the voters and his services about these changes? There's only six days left. Finally, at the committee meeting, we were told that it was the success of the ministry, that over 374 thousand packages were sent back to 311,000. Minister, this is the success of our compatriots who have overcome this inconsistent, discretionary system prepared by the PiS government. Poles with incredible determination, great organization, huge commitment, bringing each other help, delivered over 311 thousand votes in time. They deserve great respect. We thank them for that, wishing them another success in the second round. And I dedicate a few warm words to the Minister from my fellow countrymen. A lot of people haven't gotten in yet, including friends from work and my daughter, and we checked in just like you, at the same time. We live close together. Mine didn't make it to today. The package of a partner who lives with me came yesterday. Two fruitless hours on the phone to the consulate. I wrote an e-mail today, but I got an automatic response that they had 14 days to reply to my e-mail. I'm afraid my package will be sent back and someone else will vote. The address in Berlin should be given five ballots. Oddly enough, 3 arrived on Saturday, 2 isn't here yet. I'm angry because time is getting less and less. They're trying to figure it out. I wrote to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and they said they should be here by Wednesday. The mailman was already at my place today and the box was empty. In Germany, photocopies are sent and you don't have to be Einstein to predict what will happen to the originals. And those X-rayed envelopes. Why do they think we're idiots? In the name of what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u96	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Of course, I would like to start by thanking all those who feel a connection with their homeland and whether they are constantly or periodically outside Poland, this relationship feels so strongly that they want to participate in this most important celebration for each country, the celebration of democracy, the electoral procedure. I would like to thank all Poles living abroad sincerely for this and in accordance with the regulations I would like to ask the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to answer a few questions in writing. What happened to the electronic registration system for elections, which at some point stopped working and through which people who wanted to vote in particular in the second round? How is this system secure? Is it made up of IT specialists working in the Ministry? Are they the ones taking care of him or the outside company? How's the deal signed? If a contract is signed with a company, how did the Ministry guarantee itself the right to a possible claim in a situation in which such a party will not operate? That's the first question. Second question. Does the Ministry intend to set up additional electoral committees for the second round of elections? Third question. What are the deadlines for sending all the electoral packages? I'm asking for precise information on what dates. they go to voters in individual countries. Of course, I'm talking about the second round. Another question. Is the Ministry planning to set up a hotline to effectively inform Poles about voting rules? Speaking of effective information, I am talking about a hotline that can be reached, 24 hours a day, regardless of time differences, as Poles are staying in different time zones outside our country's borders. Another question. Whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in those countries where there has been a change in the rules related to the limitation of movement in relation to the earlier period and the arrangements before the first election round will verify the rules by allowing personal delivery of electoral packages where there has been a loosening of rules related to, for example, With a traffic ban? And at the end of the day, very warm, very cordial thanks to all the members of the election committee. In some electoral committees outside the borders, the number of votes cast was many times higher than in the largest committees in the country. Thank you very much for your efforts. I would also like to thank the staff of the consulates, the embassies, all those involved in preparing the elections in the first round. And we warmly ask for your commitment and your heart on the occasion of the second round of these elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. I would just like to say, for the sake of order, that the Director cannot commit himself to answering these questions for the Minister, so I think it will have to be prepared in writing and we will send these questions to the Minister. Please take the floor of the senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u98	The Senate has special duties towards Polonia. Therefore, this information submitted at the Senate meeting for us and, I think, also for our fellow countrymen abroad is particularly important. More than half a million compatriots signed up for the election list before the second round. Previously, before the first tour, 390 thousand. And the Polish State should take special care of those compatriots who decide to vote. They want to maintain a relationship with the country, are interested in what is happening in Poland, and want to participate in the political life of Poland. Thus, any difficulty in this matter is particularly reprehensible. But because there has been a special situation that is no longer a special situation, which at the moment is clearly by a government majority, treated by the government as a new custom... A new custom that's connected to a broken law. Because the Foreign Minister or the Deputy Minister, who should be here at the Senate meeting, didn't show up for unknown reasons. This is not only disregard for the Senate, it is not only disregard for individual senators, including the Senators of Law and Justice. We should all ensure that the Senate's position is in line with the Constitution and legal. But since this has happened again, I suspect it is a decision, a decision connected with the fact that the government majority, Law and Justice have no majority in the Senate. She didn't file a report and refused to come here for the Senate meeting, Judge Przyłębska. It was the first time. Although it is clear in the Constitutional Court Act that it is reporting. She wrote that she had submitted a report. She put it on the table in the Senate and said she didn't have to come. The head of the CBA did not come to the committee's meeting for the second time and announced that he would not come to the Senate meeting to report on the activities of the CBA, the Central Anti-corruption Office. This obligation is enshrined in the CBA Act. What does that mean? It's disrespectful of the Senate, but it's also... You don't like the Senate? Well, so what? This was chosen by the Polish society. A senate like this was elected by the voters. What's that even... This situation is unprecedented. There's another step right now. Yesterday, neither the Minister nor the Deputy Minister of Finance came, although we asked for information about the situation of the budget, which is worrying and which may disturb us. Today the Foreign Minister did not come with information about why there were such problems with voting our fellow countrymen abroad. Of course, we are not vulnerable in this situation. In a situation where the government, the prime minister, the president repeatedly urged the Senate to send a bill here in the last period and to say tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, asked why we had not yet passed the bill which was sent here from the Sejm, whether they were rushing to work... Yeah, well, they don't do much work around here. Is that the only question? I'm afraid it's not a matter of laziness. This is a question of a policy that the government and the majority of the government want to apply to the Senate. I'm saying we're not defenseless. It's not like the government, treating the Senate like that, can say everything's okay. What if the Senate starts treating the government like that? He's treating. And what's gonna happen... Not yet. What's... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. I'm asking you to calm down. Law and custom are broken. Because you can't say, "No, I'm being mistreated here, so I'm not coming. The head of the CBA, who expects us to ask him about the counter-intelligence protection of the purchase of medicinal equipment at the time of the coronavirus, or how 8 or 10 million zlotys were removed from the operating fund and how he was secured. Yeah, that's why we're here to ask tough questions and get answers. And so far it has been. I believe that if this situation continues and deepens, it is necessary to consider the Court of State for those ministers who break their obligations clearly and openly. That's why the Court of State is here to make such legal assessments. I appeal, I also appeal to minority senators, I appeal to the Senators of Law and Justice, also to Marshal Karczewski, so that their position on the Senate position is similar. Gentlemen, now we are the majority in the Senate, and recently you were the majority. And when we were a minority, we took care of the position of the Senate. We took care of the Senate position. So appeal to you too, appeal to you also to your government 'Cause it's easier for you than it is for us 'cause they've called it into some sort of order so that he and his ministers can carry out their statutory duties, as laid down in the bill. That's it. That's it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u99	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja. Senator Krzysztof Brejza will be connected to the Senate remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u100	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that a large group of Polish people have been prevented from registering in elections through the e-election system of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in addition to Senator Kwiatkowski's questions. The fact that the State of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not present itself today, neither the Minister nor the Deputy Minister, to submit information on this matter, is a very bad thing. I would like to fill these questions in on the following issues. How many people have tried to register for the last two hours when this system was suspended? Why did the certificate of this system expire in March 2020 and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs did not audit and check the efficiency of the certificate of this system? Why wasn't he checked? And finally, have the actual reasons why this system has ceased to function in recent hours been established? Did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs carry out the inspection? What are the results of this check? I would also like to point out that there is no doubt that the practice of not attending the Senate is a violation of obligations, but also of the powers of the senators, for example in the article. The 16th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator, and is unfortunately an attempt to build a parallel legal system, bypassing the Senate, with some contempt not even for us as senators, but for the voters who elected us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Mark Knocks. Please, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u102	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! First formal remark. We are at the point: the Foreign Minister's information on the conduct of the vote in the Presidential elections of 2020. The Minister did not come, the information was not provided, there is a debate on the information of the Minister, and we are therefore debating the information that did not take place. It's a psychic, not the first and not the last psychic in this Senate term. The elections are ongoing, they have not ended, therefore, without justifying the minister, because he should justify himself, I would say that logically it seems to me that the minister does not appear here during the ongoing elections. It's a disaster. Summaries, comments, election evaluations... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...may be carried out after the election process has been completed. I remind you senators that the election authority is the State Election Commission and she is also... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] ...and she's also in the right legal way... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But not abroad. Mrs. Marshal... Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down. Don't get excited. I'm asking you to calm down. I'm asking you to calm down. And it is also the National Election Commission, on the basis of the relevant provisions, that will report on the elections if they are held and concluded. The institution which will assess the legality, validity of elections will be the Supreme Court and will also take the floor on the conduct of elections in Poland and abroad. This is case one. Case number two... This is a reference to the statement made by Marshal Borusewicz, who has dispersed here in accusations, extended it to the CBA, the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Well, where the law, the constitution, the relevant laws provide for an obligation to appear in the Senate, where it is mandatory to provide some information, that is indeed the requirement to be met. And I remind you of the marshal. 'Cause maybe the marshal doesn't know. That the relevant information on the relevant problems arising from the activities of the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal was submitted by the President to the Senate. And the president didn't show up. And here, too, without justifying the president. 'Cause she sent the right excuse and comment why she didn't come. I, as senator of the second term, can say from my own observation that I am not surprised, Madam President, that she did not come here. Because from a few years ago, the opposition in the Senate In this term of office, the majority in the Senate It undermines the constitutional, constitutional status of the current Constitutional Court, uses unauthorized terms of judges understudy, refuses to proceed at the meetings of the committee with judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal depending on the composition in which they were issued, without having any constitutional powers to do so. The Constitutional Tribunal is a body independent of the Senate and the Senate has no authority to establish the constitutionality or non-constitutionality of acts issued by it. Therefore, when the marshal and the honourable senators demand that the Senate be treated with due respect, start with each other and treat institutions such as the Constitutional Tribunal also with due respect. That's note two. And third note. These visits to the Senate to your requests from individual ministers, the Prime Minister, in fact, if they take place, if individual ministers and the Prime Minister respond to these invitations, are the result of good will from the Prime Minister and ministers. Unlike the Sejm, the Senate has no powers of control over the government and individual ministers, so all this information is so called. soft character. We don't even have the right to interpel, unlike Members. Because interpellation is a tool for government control and for individual ministers. We have the right to a senator's statement, which is not the same as a parliamentary interpellation. Therefore, do not use too big words. Because if there's no minister or prime minister here, it's not a violation of some rule of constitution or law, it's just for example. there is no possibility of coming at a specific time. Especially since these last 2 invitations were sent literally a day or two earlier. Do not expect the Prime Minister of the Polish Government or the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the people responsible for very important departments in the country, who direct the work of the entire government day by day, to appear before the Senate, because this is the propaganda expectation of the majority senators in the election campaign. Well, just if you really care so much about this respect for the Senate, then don't take action strictly. propaganda, political. And I see how these interrogations take place. These are all statements soaked in, so to speak, political temperament, biased, simplified, repeatedly passing by with the law, with the truth. I have recently seen, for example, a meeting of the Health Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Laws and Petitions with the participation of the Deputy Minister for Health. We just can't let that kind of propaganda show go on. The Senate should also not be involved in this because it lowers its authority. That's not what the Senate's for. Let us exercise our constitutional powers and duties, but let us not try to make the Senate a body which, in an open way, contrary to its competences, fights against the Polish democratic government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u103	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski. Eliminate the Senate and it won't be a problem. I'm gonna ask you to calm down one more time.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I'm gonna talk about the general issue. It would be good if we were precise and remembered the perspective that Marshal Borusewicz was talking about. Each of us may find ourselves in the situation in which the majority of the Senate is present. It is worth caring about the subjectivity of senators as such. The preamble to the Constitution speaks of the obligation to cooperate with the authorities. You're right that the Senate doesn't enforce the political responsibility of the government. We are not entitled to interpelations, but information from the Council of Ministers, members of the government, is an essential duty of executive authority towards the Senate. This cooperation is based on such a very intelligent principle. Well, it's very difficult to perform legislative functions without information. For example, it will be very difficult for us to join reliable budget work without government information on the state of public finances. It seems to me that this is an element that we should all defend, above all in the name of responsibility towards voters, in the name of citizens' confidence in the state. I'm a little surprised at your fear of the bitter words of the truth. I respect your Marshal Pop, who follows the rules of personal culture, but I'll appeal to my relationship with his dad. He did not spare very difficult and hard words to his political rivals, but ministers and politicians against whom he was in opposition. Yes, there was a time in Poland They did not fear these words and came to the High House, to the Sejm and to the Senate. So it is worth remembering that we all once defended standards that are being violated today. It used to be obvious. Imagine that the Leszek Miller government does not come to the committee of inquiry for fear of difficult questions. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Yeah, that's different, of course. Gentlemen, please remain calm. There are fears of much less risk, Senator. Well, people have different scales of courage at different stages of history. And now I'm going to refer to the Foreign Ministry and its agendas. What kind of situation are we dealing with here? Well, generally, the government shouldn't be responsible for the election process. This is the drawing of the authoritarian state. However, like the French or Croatians, we have our diaspora and therefore the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must ensure that elections are held effectively and in accordance with constitutional standards. This is a matter of very high trust in government administration, but this high trust should be linked to the readiness of the Foreign Minister to report on the conduct of the electoral process. Well, we've actually noticed a lot of irregularities that risked violating the principle of universality of electoral law, as well as the risks associated with the impact on the overall outcome, the overall outcome of the election. So this information is simply due to us. We are dealing with a particular situation in which the Foreign Minister has been given high confidence, and this high confidence at a certain elementary level should involve a willingness to submit information. As for the State Election Commission, some of us are right here, raising the question of the responsibility of the PKW. I would like to ask the Marshal to pass on to the members of the Senate Bureau, Marshal Grodzko, that a special meeting of the Senate Bureau with the head of the PKW is needed and to make him allergic in the last days before the election date to the fact that the part of the vote in which Poles living outside the country are taking part may be affected by fundamental electoral standards. I would also appeal very much to Minister Chaputowicz to correct his mistake and at least send the information in writing, since he was not ready to be here. It is the answer to this particular trust which it gives that determines the electoral right in a country that has a diaspora. That is our trust in the Foreign Minister. But such special trust always gives rise to special responsibilities. There can't be a failure here. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Karczewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u106	Thank you very much, Marshal. Will you speak from your place, Mr. Marshal? If you'll allow the marshal and your permission, you're welcome. I'd rather be on the spot. Of course, of course. I'm gonna start with what you were talking about, Marshal Bang. This debate should be gone. We were to listen to the Minister's information and have a possible debate on this information. Mrs. Marshal, I believe that what is being done at the moment is abuse and non-regulation, because we are discussing something that has not been presented. We just presume and wonder. I agree with the Marshal's opinion that this debate, which your Marshal is conducting, should not be. Before I begin my speech, I will appeal to the words made just a moment ago by Senator Ujazdowski. Mr. Senator, I would ask you very much not to talk about our parents, our grandparents, our fathers. You explain yourself now, and I would ask you to address our words, to discuss with your views, but not to involve our parents and our children in the debate. I'm just saying it in advance. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, you've been a marshal for ten years. Tell me how many of the government's information on any subject at the time, the Senate has listened. Zero, not a single piece of information. This was not the case, Mr. Marshal, because the Senate has other constitutional powers, other prerogatives and is dealing with something completely different. The Constitution clearly states that the Senate deals with the legislative process and is a legislative authority. We're not in control of the government, and that's why there's no senate interpellation. There are only statements. You know that very well. I ask you, Marshal Borusewicz: how many times have Mr. Donald Tusk and Mrs. Ewa Kopacz been in this bleacher and talked about anything? Not once, not once, not once. And now you wish that Prime Minister Morawiecki would come and give information. Then, when such information is needed, I'm sure the Prime Minister... He's been here many times, he's already spoken here, he's talked and he's informed you about a lot of things, for example about the budget. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was here talking about the budget, he spoke proudly, with his head raised, because it was the first balanced budget, one you hadn't dreamed of in eight years. Coronavirus has ruined our plans. You know that very well. Mr. Senator, I think you're the one who's analyzing what happened. You've been talking about deadly envelopes recently, and now you're asking everyone to vote abroad. Break down your statements, think about it. Compare your statements a few weeks ago, a few months before you changed your candidate and put your understudy on the stand. What's the game for? Because this is a game, ladies and gentlemen. Because you guys are playing politics right now. Well, you just sign in... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen, please remain calm. Senator, as I say... You know, you've spoken several times, and I haven't stopped you once. And I'd like to ask you... Mr. Marshal, but I'll stay calm. Proceed calmly. Yeah, but you're not a marshal, so I'm supporting you. I'm doing it, Mr. Marshal. Don't discuss it, please continue your speech. I'll keep the peace in the courtroom. But you're attacking me now, instead of... No, I'm not attacking. ...shut up... I'm just saying you don't have to do me any favors. ...states sitting on the left side of the political room. I wonder why you're doing this. And actually, Senator Ujazdowski enlightened me. Because if you're talking about whether it's the basis or the possibility of annulment, then you're part of Mr. Giertych's game, who said that if he wins, then he's still going to win. Kidawa-Błońska, the election will be important, and when Andrzej Duda wins, the election should be considered invalid. So thank you, because you said it, opened up... Thank you very much, Senator, for saying that because you said it with disarming honesty. And thank you very much to the senator for that. Because this is your game, but you can't win this game. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's information... whether they will be held, whether they will be respected, whether the invitations will be accepted by the Prime Minister and individual ministers, I do not know. According to the constitution, they may not come. Yes, they must be represented during the legislative process. And in this respect, which was mentioned here, the agreement is complete, absolute. That's the way it's supposed to be. We can't afford the Senate to become such an alternative political state, can we? 'Cause you guys put on a constitutional pseudo-tribunal here, which, fortunately, doesn't work. Well, it was such a strawful enthusiasm. It's up and running. Thank God it's not working. And let it not work because it is completely unnecessary, though with a bang created. You have tried to conduct foreign policy as an alternative to the policy that the government is leading and that the President is leading. Well, it didn't work. Talking to the Russian ambassador was such an example of one huge miscarriage of your marshal, which should never have happened. Yeah, but that's okay. We've been through this. We're gonna get through a lot of things. As for maintaining the dignity of the Senate and the role of the Senate, you can always count on the Senators of Law and Justice, if your intentions are pure, if they are not merely political or party intentions. Because they're more party than political. Here's what I'm gonna say. 'Cause Senator Klich, by mentioning my name, said what we were afraid of. We're not afraid of anything. Senator, we're not afraid of anything. All we're afraid of is aggression, hey, lies that are being used right now. We're scared. We're afraid of Mr. Zbigniew Bonek's words. We are afraid of such activities that are on the Internet, e.g. The recordings of the militia driving and tearing off our posters, our banners. We're afraid of it. We're afraid of Mr. Szumowski's obituaries coming up. We're afraid of crossing the border... I'm not saying the state. Not you, but your supporters, at some kind of acceptance, crossed something that is very dangerous for Poland and Polish democracy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u107	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Senator George... [[...]] In ad vocem mode you also wanted Marshal Borusewicz... [[...]] In normal mode. I'm in normal mode. I signed up. In ad vocem mode, go ahead.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u108	First of all, I understand that there's a particular state of chastity in the public debate, but I didn't say a word about the Supreme Court and the prospects for the annulment of the election, so... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I didn't say a word about the Supreme Court here. And we should all care about implementing the principle of universality. So maybe you enlightened yourself, maybe someone else enlightened you, but not me. As for the first remark, no one is really going to make me not talk good about people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u109	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u110	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You'll see in the transcript, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator, I'd really like to ask for some peace. You're disturbing Senator Czerwinski to begin his speech. You're welcome. Mr. Marshal can. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I believe it was a mistake that your marshal did not allow the information of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to be provided by the person who is the most competent and authorized to do so. Why? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the electoral bill, that's what I call it, which is the one that regulated most of the presidential election this year, in 2020, but also the electoral code... Sir, could you... Gentlemen, could you agree to this outside the room? I'd like that very much. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator. Well, back to the thought... Both the electoral bill, recently passed by us, and the electoral code make the consul Not the ambassador, not any other service, but the consul. He is responsible for the electoral process, especially in correspondence. Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1: the conduct of the governor or the electoral commissioner in the correspondence vote in the voting circuits established abroad shall be carried out by the consul. Well, then who else but the director who oversees the consulates could best present this information to us? That's the point, ladies and gentlemen. You didn't want that information, you wanted to do a political raccoon. Well, that's a choice. I'll try to get back to the facts. The first fact, which was presented here. Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 Constitution: The Sejm exercises control over the activities of the Council of Ministers within the scope of specific provisions of the Constitution and laws. Seym, not the Senate. I've said this a few times from this lecturer: you're trying. I mean the majority of the Senate, the so-called. Democratic majority or democratic majority You're trying to usurp the laws you don't have. And it is the authorities of the state, including the Sejm and the Senate, that operate within the limits of the law. On the basis and within the limits of the law. In this case, the law of the highest, or constitution. Next line. If we were to load up, for example. In the electoral code, which is the main law governing the elections, we would see that art. 320 clearly states: no later than 14 days after the public announcement of the results of the elections, the State Election Commission sends And now, here's the thing. The Marshal of the Sejm and the Supreme Court's election report. Marshal of the Seym, not the Senate. Of course, politely, if we ask whether your marshal or anyone, we will certainly receive such a report from the PKW. Even more, I would like to ask you to consider what the PKW will try to tell us in this report. To assess the election, but not through newspaper information, which is completely incompatible with reality, the one you presented to us here, Senator Klich, but the actual information. It's not the press, it's the facts. These facts and assessments of these facts can be presented to us by the State Election Commission in its report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Incidentally, this report also serves... Mr. Senator... ...as a basis for a ruling by the Supreme Court, whether the elections were valid or not. That is the status of this report. We can lean over it, but not during the election. We're still in the middle of an election. That was the second fact. Fact three. 2 numbers are given here, namely the number of people recorded in the so-called. electoral lists kept by consuls, i.e. 374 thousand, and the number of those who cast their votes It's 311,000. And this difference, 63,000, is as if there were those who could not vote. Perhaps it is. Perhaps it is, but I give myself a cut, that it is not 63 thousand, because some of these people did not give up, for example. She wouldn't give it back. Did she have that right? Of course I do. Those who have not cast their vote because they have been prevented will certainly write protests and these protests will be heard by the Supreme Court, because only he is entitled to do so, not the Senate. You're talking about three divisions of power. The three divisions of power are that, in our legal system, electoral protests are being considered by the court, the Supreme Court, not the Senate. Simple? Simple. It's like the construction of a pussy. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the worst part. It has happened in the High House that we are discussing information that has not been presented. She is not formally a document that was presented at the Senate meeting. The question is, is that possible? Of course, you can do anything. And does that elevate the rank of the High House or lower it? It's lowering. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to quote the most important parts of this information because I don't have much time, and you'll see what we're really talking about. So some facts, not press facts. Information from the Foreign Minister. The vote was held in 167 electoral committees, and two electoral committees in Iraq did not take place. In total, 374,000 372 voters were enrolled in the electoral lists of consuls, 311,000 404 valid votes were cast. The votes were only 280. In comparison, and this is very important information, in the first round of elections of the President of the Republic in 2015, these are similar elections, 196 thousand 204 voters entered the electoral census. So the growth is close to twice. Turnout, i.e. the number of voters who enrolled in the electoral census and then returned the return envelope or voted in person amounted to 86,67% in total Voices. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be made clear what turnout is in the elections abroad. This is not an analogue of turnout in the country because in the country attendance is the ratio of those who are entitled... vice versa, those who have received the ballots, to those who are entitled. The number of eligible persons can always be determined by means of a register, more specifically, of the electoral census. Abroad the census is created ad hoc for each election, but not based on the register, as in the country, so it cannot be determined how many people are entitled. In theory, they are all those who have Polish passports, but not all of them participate in elections, it is not 10 million people abroad. Here the concept of attendance has a slightly different meaning, which is why it is so high, by the way. The turnout among voters voting in correspondence, and consequently, the percentage of return envelopes returned, was at the same level as attendance among voters voting in person. As you can see, these 2 types of elections did not constitute such an obstacle for voters. They voted in circuits where it was possible. Correspondent attendance 86,69% , personally, 86,35%, i.e. about the same number of people decided to come to the premises, which sent envelopes. In 2015, the percentage of returned packages was significantly lower in the first round, as it was 80.54%. So the thesis about the alleged common problems with the distribution of electoral packages is illegal in the light of these numbers. Return envelopes sent back a larger percentage of voters than five years ago. There was also no difference in attendance as regards those voting in correspondence and in person. And that's the facts. Consular offices have sent 340,000 241 electoral packages. In 2015, in the first round of elections, there were 34,000 21 packages. Ladies and gentlemen, growth is tenfold. This is the measure of the problem, the measure of the challenge, but also the measure of something else that I will talk about in a moment, at the end of the speech. The scale of this undertaking is incomparable. The shipment of packages lasted from 16 to 22 June, which was in line with the electoral calendar, which is, as you know, an annex to the order of the Marshals of the Sejm. In the United Kingdom alone, 4 consular posts in London, Manchester, Edinburgh, and Belfast have prepared and sent nearly 130 000 packages within the deadline. On Saturday 20 June, i.e. 2 days before the deadline specified, 79% were sent Packages. Ladies and gentlemen, it was also mentioned here that there were problems. But this is about the time after the first round, Monday after the first round of elections. With logged in to the system for those who did not take part in the first round, but wanted to take part in the second round. That's the truth. This one problem was reported to me by one of my closest family members. But, ladies and gentlemen, this person has logged in. All you had to do was try a little. Indeed, the system had problems with accepting all the notifications, and I thank the representatives of the Polish Republic for being so willing to submit to the elections. But these problems were overcome and whoever wanted to log in. It just took a little patience. And one last question, à speaking of turnout. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a very large turnout in the country, as well as this turnout abroad, a little bit measured. Well, it's probably where you should operate with absolute numbers, not attendance. That's very good, because that means we're back to the standards of the democratic state, because the higher attendance in the elections, the better the legitimacy of the authority, in this case the President's office. Why is that? Mr. Senator... Yeah, I'll recap. Why is that? Ladies and gentlemen, because our voters believed that the election meant something. Before that, the authorities pretended to keep their electoral promises, and the voters pretended to vote and walk... Actually, they didn't come to the election, they voted in a small percentage. And now it's different. The authorities say something before the elections, often they already implement it, just like the solidarity voucher, voters believe it. And neither the voters nor the authorities are pretending anymore. It's just a normal election. in a democratic state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u111	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u112	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would not like to introduce electoral elements in my speech. The main point for me is a clear new strategy of the PiS government towards the Senate, and I would like to draw attention to that. This is a strategy that, if it continues... This is an isolation strategy. I thank the senator for his information, but I would like this information to be presented by a government representative in the rank of Minister or Vice Minister, because those are the rules of Parliament. The Minister or Deputy Minister comes to the plenary session In contrast to the meetings of the committee. There may be a director at the committee meeting. There may be a vice principal. And that's acceptable, and there are no reservations about that. And here at plenary level, it should be the Minister or Deputy Minister. So I thank the senator for presenting the information, but unfortunately I cannot ask you questions, although I would like to ask you a whole series of questions. Of course, press releases are just press releases, so I don't know if they're reliable, unbelievable, what the problems were, what the problems would be. So I thank the senator for presenting the information, but it won't be like this, Mr. Senator, that the minister will determine whether or not we will be dealing with a problem. We'll be in session. And that's what I'm gonna do. Also when the minister doesn't come. This was often the case when we worked on laws. There wasn't always a minister, but we were driving... But it's not like that. Of course, that's not the situation. However, we cannot allow and will not allow, in a situation where we want information, we want to assess what is happening in a specific case. 'Cause there's an election going on here... Elections are underway, and we have recently adopted an electoral ordination which provided for correspondence elections and the way voting is carried out abroad. Why, then, do we not have the right to judge how this law, the electoral order, is being implemented? We have not only that right, but also that duty. And now for you, Marshal Karczewski. Mr. Marshal, I don't believe you have such a weak memory. It's impossible. You're saying there was no information. How many times have they said... How many times... Mr. Senator... I'll... You know, I understand, but you... We'll get back to it on some other occasion... Good. ...in some other discussion. Mr. Marshal, time... time. But, Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal, you... How much information were there from various institutions, information about the tragedy in Smolensk? Were they like that? Did you bring it up? Were they like that? They were. I'm just reminding you of that. The dead... As I say, it should be in your memory. Because I remember it perfectly. Mr. Senator, time. Now. And how many other information was there in any other debate? I'll tell you because I think it's good to refresh your memory. And I'll tell you exactly what the statistics look like. There was information for your marshaling, and you accepted such conclusions. Mr. Marshal... So there's law, there's custom. Well, Mr. Senator... Mr. Marshal, time. ...I'll refresh that memory. I'm gonna need that, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. Did you want to report ad vocem, Senator? Yeah, literally one sentence. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u114	Mr. Marshal... Ad vocem. Yeah, yeah. Mr. Marshal, I have explained that the PKW report will be after the second round of elections, 14 days. We can apply for them, and we can probably also discuss them. Not much, we can, for example. draw conclusions as to how this bill, special act, has worked well in the elections in these specifications, and maybe also, as I said earlier, we can introduce this into the text of the electoral code so that all elections in the pandemic can be organised with such extended correspondence mode. Yeah, but that's what you need to want. And you didn't want to hear it from the most competent person. Because I think he's the most competent person.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u116	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! This is not the first time when, when discussing a specific subject, the discussion comes down on an absolutely fundamental subject, namely: what is the Senate to do, what should it do, what should it not do, and how should it do? And now we have exactly the same discussion. Well, we hear from colleagues in Law and Justice that he should not be involved in politics at all, he should only be involved in the legislative process. Well, by the way, I'd like to say that this Senate is certainly not going to deal with the legislative process as the previous Senate handled it. This is certainly not the case, and it will not be the voting machine that gets the bill one day in the evening, and the next day despite reporting many obvious legislative and constitutional errors 'Cause I'm not talking about substantive amendments that might not like it. She's taking it. 'Cause time's on the clock, 'cause it's actually someone else's call, and we don't have to deal with it. That's not gonna happen. So even in this case, as it turns out, this Senate just completely lost its role. We're trying to get her back. Well, it is a matter of discussion how to do this, how to implement certain points, but as far as this key issue is concerned, that is, information, information from ministers, I would like to say that Article. 45 says that the Senate's deliberations are in particular... Here I draw attention to the term "especially," but I will skip it at the moment. These are, of course, the laws adopted by the Sejm, legislative initiatives, then reports and information presented by all the institutions mentioned here. However, point 4 also states: information from the Council of Ministers and members of the Council of Ministers. Well, what does that mean? Does this mean only that if a member of the Council of Ministers wants to submit information of his own accord, the Senate must accept it? He should, of course. This principle of cooperation between the authorities, which Senator Ujazdowski referred to here in the preamble, obliges to do so. But it works and it works the other way. Namely, if the Senate wants to hear information, information from the Council of Ministers or, in short, the President of the Council of Ministers or members of the Council of Ministers We understand that sometimes it will be Deputy Minister. This, of course, should also be the case. And if I add that in this paragraph 4, after the decimal there is also information on the issues of Polish and Polish people abroad, which is, you can say, a special duty of the Senate, then now we can look at the problem that we are discussing here today. So I think that absolutely the presentation of this information should take place, the Senate should be honored here. Should the principal be heard? Ladies and gentlemen, I say yes, but there is such a thing as a certain sense of value, each of us has it, and in certain situations, when we feel ignored, we don't participate in something, we go out, because we just think that some boundaries have been exceeded. In this matter, with all due respect to your director and his undoubted competence, they have been exceeded, Senator. And really, I don't understand... I have listened carefully to what you have presented here, but I really do not understand why this information could not be provided by the Deputy Minister, who would then answer numerous questions, including. It's the ones in the newspapers that are, whether it's real or not, whether it's real or not, whether it's a problem or not. Now the question is whether between elections We're the ones who can handle this. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, the matter concerns Polonia. I'm talking about it again. This is a special subject of interest to the Senate. Secondly, if this kind of voice comes in, you have to talk about it. Well, if the Seym isn't gathering and talking about it, then we're talking. I don't see anything wrong with that. Now about the difference in control... Well, the difference is fundamental, because the Sejm has that kind of control, and the Senate doesn't have that kind of control. There are interpellations, we have statements. But what I'm trying to say is that these statements are being answered by the addressees of these statements, just like the interpellations. That's one thing. Secondly, as far as information is concerned... What is the difference between controlling the Sejm in the case of such information and with us? In the Sejm, after the information, the Sejm shall either accept the information or not accept it. And that's the kind of control. If the information doesn't accept, then it's some kind of signal. Yes? We do not take such votes, with us this information is purely information, and then there may be questions, discussions, etc. Perhaps, then, we need to discuss this role of the Senate and how we will work here. But under no circumstances can we give up the political role. The Senate is not, say, an apolitical institution, it would be absurd. We are all politicians here, we are all involved in politics, but at these meetings we should practice this policy properly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u117	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u118	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I'm very brief because the session is adjourned. Words that are hard to leave unanswered. Senator Borowski is an extraordinary erudite, as we have seen many times here, but he is also mistaken or deliberately misleading us. It is not that the Senate's Rules of Procedure may impose obligations on persons and institutions outside the Senate. This is the rules of procedure, he organises our work and cannot impose obligations on third parties, in particular the government, ministers and the President of the Council of Ministers. That's what the constitution is for. The senator knows that, and I just wanted to sort it out. The time given to prepare for the presentation of this information was very short. We're in the period between the first and second rounds of the election. I don't know if it was intentional for these debates to take place here on these topics... It must certainly be stressed that the Senate Rules are our internal regulation and must not impose responsibilities on ministers or the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u119	Thank you, Senator. And Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u120	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We see here on 2 examples of how the vote is organised for our fellow countrymen, the citizens of Poland outside the borders, and how those who are holding this vote boycott the discussion about the conduct of this vote in the High House. What is the attitude of the PiS not to the Senate, not even to Polonia, but to Polish citizens. There are two things to see here. First of all, why are we talking about this? Contrary to what the esteemed senators on the right side of the room said, it's not to say such words here. Anyone gets hurt. We are doing this to improve the electoral process just during its course, between the first and second rounds. Most of Senator Klich's demands So that consulates can be opened longer so that they can receive election packages directly from citizens to set up a hotline, that's all... Or the High House talked about it, for example. Or we talked about it more than two weeks ago at a committee meeting. And that was our postulates to the Foreign Office, and I stress that The management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Not to professional, professional diplomats, but to the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And if they were respected, if the PiS-owska majority in the Sejm had not rejected our amendments, and if the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had not ignored our demands clearly expressed at the committee meeting more than 2 weeks ago, today perhaps this debate would not have been, because we would not have had nearly 1/5 Poles who could not vote. - 63,000. Which, certainly, Mr. Senator, most of them wanted to vote. I can quote you, as the predecessors quoted, tens, dozens of emails, letters, messages sent by Messenger, etc. From people from Washington and New York, Germany and Scandinavia. Unfortunately, there Poles either did not receive these electoral packages at all, or they received them unstamped, or they received them on Friday, just before the election, or they received them even on Monday after the election. It wouldn't have been all that if you had. I say "PiS" they were open to a serious conversation with citizens. Now what we expect is that of the 0.5 million Poles who have signed up for these elections... And that distinguishes these choices from e.g. elections from 5 years ago, but also from the elections from a year ago, that this is an absolutely record number of people who, despite difficulties, despite the logs thrown at their feet, registered abroad. More than 0.5 million Poles want to vote in this election. It's more than that. in Opole Voivodship, where fewer people voted, or Lubuskie Voivodship, and not much less than in 3, 4 other voivodships. These citizens must be respected because they want to fulfil their civic duty or to implement the law. And I hope that this time the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which unfortunately ignored the discussion in the High House, will take at least some of our demands into account, which means that it will open more electoral committees, will equip them with as many as possible members of these committees. Unfortunately, in many committees there were too few members, and so it took 20 hours and even more to count the votes after the first round. This was not only the case in the UK, but there is a particularly compelling problem. I hope the Foreign Office opens a hotline. The fact that the hotline was not opened 2 weeks ago for nearly 380 thousand Poles who wanted to vote, and now for more than 0.5 million, this is the measure of whether the state management In this case, the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs takes seriously Poles who want to vote or not, whether they want to help them vote or not to help them vote. The opening of this hotline is particularly important at the moment, because in many countries the way of voting from correspondence is changing to the way that the electoral package itself can be returned to the consulate or even... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to remain calm in the courtroom. It doesn't matter. ...directly in a personal vote. I want to end with a sad reflection on the lack of management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs at our meeting. Minister Czaputowicz, if not him, then responsible for the consular affairs of Minister Piotr Wawrzyk, if not him, then Mr Szymon Szynkowski a.k.a. Sęk, if not him, then Mr Paweł Jabłoński, if not him, then Mr Marcin Przydcz, and if not him, then Mr Maciej Lang, one of them should find time to talk. Not only with the High House, but with this group of half a million Poles abroad, who have huge problems with fulfilling their electoral rights. And I do not want, encouraged by the President of the Republic a few weeks ago, to use the words that the President used against the former Prime Minister of Poland I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I do not want to discuss at this level in this House, even though the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, encourages us to do so. But I want to be clear. The one who can pride himself on his work, who can say, "I have done what I have to do well." In a mouse hole, like today, there are those who must be ashamed of the effects of their work. Indeed, the political leadership of the Foreign Ministry should be ashamed of the way in which the election mission is carried out abroad. I hope that over half a million Poles abroad who are determined to vote will learn from it. And perhaps, perhaps the votes of this half million will decide that we will finally have a change of power in Poland for one that respects citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Mrs. Marshal, on the way to the replica, if you don't mind... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u122	This is to the esteemed Senator Wind, who said that the Senate's Rules of Procedure are just an internal document. Well, it's not, Mr. Senator. This is a resolution of the Senate, as well as the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm adopted by a resolution of the Sejm, and yet both of these documents have the rank of a law. And the best evidence is that the provisions that have been made here and here can be brought before the Constitutional Court, which may speak on this subject and annul certain provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. From the place or from the platform?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u124	From the podium. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I listened to this debate, and I became... I wasn't gonna speak, but some of the voices, so to speak, got me to do it. Well, High Izbo, the course of this debate for someone who would read the transcript of this debate clearly shows that it was not really the goal. concern for our fellow countrymen abroad, who for some reason independent of the Polish government, for very different reasons could not And that, of course, must be regretted. To vote in the presidential election on 28 June. Minister Wawrzyk also had a meeting of the Foreign Affairs Committee on several occasions, on which, as far as I am aware, this subject was discussed. He spoke about how the election was organized. He pointed out that not all organisational and logistical opportunities were within the scope of the Polish state, because we are dealing with choices carried out in various legal systems, in various sanitary regimes related to the pandemic of Coronavirus, and thus with dependence on operators of specific postal services and other services. Therefore, it was not so easy to make these choices, and I think that this should be taken into account. Of course, the optimal system would be... If in Poland we had e.g. the possibility of online voting, the same conduct of the electoral process would be much simpler, but it is not. Everyone was surprised by the pandemic of Coronavirus. And this whole election thing... Please note that the elections which took place in the country on 28 June, despite many predictions, how bad it will be, how this could affect attendance, that Poles would not want to go to those elections, that there would be difficulties, that there would be a problem with all this... Well, it turned out that although there were unfortunately, as with every election, some minor irregularities, however, in principle the State Election Commission passed the exam perfectly. If it wasn't for the British protocols, the election results... I asked Mr Marciniak, President of the State Election Commission, until 6 a.m. This would indicate that, after all, this huge logistical effort, which was involved in the election, has worked. I, of course, regret that some of our fellow countrymen who wanted to take part in these elections could not do so for objective reasons. It's a pity the High House didn't want you to say anything about it. He has a lot of knowledge. I think it's the biggest of all of us. And he could answer all the questions of the High House in detail. In addition to some of the threads that have been discussed in the speeches of my previous speakers, I believe that many elements of the current election campaign have emerged here. We as Senate are usually obliged to take care of Polonia and should, in due time, after the elections, read all the information about their conduct. Let us do this in an atmosphere of peace, in an atmosphere of substantive work, not in an atmosphere of political conflict. Let us not try to fuel this conflict. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u125	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I'm ordering a 20-minute recess by 5:25. After the break, the vote will take place. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 02 to 17 minutes 26]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u126	Dear Senators! [[Talking in the O.R.]] Shh. ... I would like to inform you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to be held on 15 and 16 July. The order of this meeting will be delivered to you by e-mail, depending on the materials we will receive from the Sejm of the Republic. I would like to inform you senators that the senators appointed for the calculation of the votes on the appointment of a member of the committee to clarify cases of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 have informed me of the wrong number of votes cast in favour of Adam Czarnecki's candidacy. Twenty-five votes were cast in favour, not 24 votes in favour. 56 Senators voted against Marian Jagielski's candidacy and 33 Senators voted against Agnieszka Rękas. This is a mistake for one. The errors reported in the minutes have been corrected and do not affect the outcome, appointment and decision of the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that the agenda be supplemented by the following: the establishment of an Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs: and consider it as item eight of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. We'll proceed to the vote... In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We therefore proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the establishment of an Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. The proposal of the Senate Marshal on this matter is contained in print No 156. I would also like to inform you that the draft resolution on the establishment of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs has been welcomed by the Seniors Convention. I ask Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to speak and present a draft resolution on the appointment of the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs on behalf of the Senate Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u127	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I kindly inform you that a group of senators brought a marshal to you, and today you are presenting a draft resolution on the establishment of an Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. §1 states that the Senate of the Republic of Poland pursuant to Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure are set up by the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs, and this is where the composition is mentioned. The Commission is very numerous. Let me read all the names: Senator Halina Bieda, Senator Marcin Bosacki, Senator Jacek Bury, Senator Alicja Chybicka, Senator Artur Dunin, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, Senator Benjamin Godyla, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komar, Senator Tomasz Grodzki, Senator Jolanta Hibner... Gorgon Comor. Sorry, Komor. Yeah, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, Senator Michał Kaminski, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Magdalena Kochan, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, Senator Ewa Matecka, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Janusz Pęcherz, Senator Aleksander Pociej, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, Senator Joanna Sekula, Senator Ryszard Świlski, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, Senator Wojciech Ziemniak, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, Senator Viktor Durlak, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Senator Stanjar Maria Koc, Mr. Raphael. Rafał, I'm sorry. It's not that simple. The committee's task is to examine and develop issues relating to: climate neutrality, biodiversity, circular economy, industrial strategy for climate, smart and sustainable development, adaptation to climate change, including protection against flooding and drought, strategy from field to table, participation in shaping climate policy, implementation of climate policy in Poland, energy efficiency, development and promotion of renewable energy sources, socio-economic aspects of climate change, climate education, air protection and climate change financing, development of natural raw materials and air protection. That's where the resolution ends. I'll just say a few more sentences of comment, if you don't mind. Poland has been actively involved in issues relating to the global agreement on climate change for many years. Climate conferences were held several times in Poland under the aegis of the United Nations, followed by climate summits: in Poznań, Warsaw and recently in Katowice. We constantly bring up various kinds of positions concerning these events not only in Poland, but also in other cities and countries of the world. For a long time there has been a debate in Europe about the future of the world, including in this climate section. Today, the European Commission, the European Parliament, is discussing a Green European Order project. Also in Poland a new Ministry, Ministry of Climate, was created in this term of office. In particular, this recent event in a natural way makes it necessary to set up a committee in the Polish Senate which, in this way, will look at matters relating to climate issues above the resort division. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u128	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Unfortunately, no... What's up? Mr. Senator, what's going on? It's not working... No? Well, thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] A lot of us. Vacation... Why don't you go with Professor Wind and then... Is it working yet?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u129	It's working. Mr. Marshal, I in your Marshal's office at 2:00 p.m. with a penny I resigned in writing from this committee, and I'm surprised that I was listed as... At 2:00 p.m. with the pennies I was...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u130	Let me explain, Mr. Senator. I'm just a little surprised that... No... ...I've been read. Don't worry. The call was until 5:00. This morning, the Seniors Convention gave an opinion on the draft resolution with names as they were written. If this committee is set up, it will already be possible, in a normal manner, through the Rules of Procedure Committee, to apply for membership of that committee or to resign. Your motion is accepted. If the committee is not set up, the proposal will be without object, either way. Thank you very much. Professor Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u131	I would like to ask: from the field to the table in what sense is this?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u132	This is one of the areas that are being discussed within the framework of the European Green Deal. It is about developing products in such a way that this process is as low as possible.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u133	Thank you very much. Senator Rotnicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u134	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The first question I think my colleague will answer right away: how many people does this committee have to count on? Because I get the impression that this is almost our entire board, so I don't really imagine how technically we're going to work, if this committee is ever set up. And we need to think deeply, Mr. Marshal and Mr. Inspirer of this committee, how this is going to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u135	They've called in an access card. Although I am here to take note of the resignation of Senator Jackowski for the time being, 43 people. Without Mr. Jackowski's 42nd.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u136	Senator, let me remind you that we've predicted this in the changes to the rules. Art. 14 says that if the committee were to prove itself, let's call it euphemistically, inefficient, the Senior Convention will be able to determine the number of seats available to senate clubs and senate circles in this committee. The Convention concluded that, in view of the high interest in climate matters at the moment, it would not limit the number of members, but if it turned out that the committee had a permanent problem with ensuring, for example. The quorum, then we will have the opportunity to take action and such a response. Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u137	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, for the first time we are setting up an emergency committee, but in the Senate's Rules of Procedure two types of committees are included, i.e. such ordinary, permanent committees and extraordinary committees. They have different statuses. Well, standing committees are dealing with a certain kind of case. There's a phrase here. That's what's going on, what's going on all the time, so that's what I'm going to do. He called it senate work. That's, you know... these things are highlighted in the rules, in the annex. And extraordinary committees call for specific tasks, that is, something individual. It is a simple matter, and those of you who were self-governments know that at the beginning of your term of office, an extraordinary commission was always appointed to amend the regulations of the work of the council or the Sejm. And now the question to the representative, as I understand it, of the applicants. Namely: why didn't you appoint an ordinary committee, for permanent work, in place of this emergency committee, which is supposed to be an episodeal, individual one? What's really going on here? I'm asking because it's another ruin, well, maybe not a structure, because it's said too much, but certain standards, certain customs, also defined by the rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u138	Mr. Senator, since we're quoting this point in the Rules of Procedure, let's note that it's not a unit record, but it's multiple. -, multilateral, because we appoint extraordinary committees not to carry out a specific task but to perform specific tasks There's a plural here. These are issues of green order, or permanent states. If it doesn't dry, it's a meltdown... These are the tasks that the senator enumerated briefly. And that's what this committee's gonna do. The extraordinary Commission in this case has specific tasks: repairing the Polish climate and securing us to live in a clean, ecological country.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u139	I would just like to add that the debate on the European Green Deal is happening here and now. She can end in a few months, maybe a few years. We don't really know that. In the European Parliament and in many countries, decisions are taken that, in addition to traditional resorts such as the Ministry of the Environment, climate ministries will be set up. We are consciously looking for solutions that will allow climate issues to be dealt with not only in purely resort terms. These things require a horizontal, over-ministerial view. And that's the justification, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u140	Thank you very much. Senator Zdrojewska was the first. Yes? Senator Hare. Senator Hare. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u141	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Chairman of the new committee. Doesn't the committee intend to enter areas that have traditionally been reserved for, so to speak, other beings? If so, have there been discussions with those who are the kind of guardians of certain areas and problems that the committee will be interested in?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u142	I don't know what's going on with beings. This is a conundrum. I assume that question is addressed to me. You know, Mr. Senator... How do you read the law on guns and see what the scope is? The work of the Climate Ministry, you'll know it too. I'm telling you, using your terms. It falls within the scope of other beings' actions. Perhaps that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u143	Just an interest, Mr. Senator, in this committee, shows that there was a need to create it. I treat it complementaryly with other committee beings, not competitively. Senator Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u144	Dear Marshal, Actually, I'm gonna put my question on how we even imagine our work in the near future if the COVID epidemic lasts longer and we're gonna have a situation like this. What we have introduced into the Rules of Procedure, which is to attend committee meetings... All this prolongs the vote, prolongs the committee meetings, etc. I don't know if... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry, I didn't bother you. Let me speak. That's what I'm paying attention to. The second thing I'm paying attention to is that we've been able to use the Seym Rooms so far. We can't right now. I'm talking about a purely organizational problem. The Sejm built a huge building, and we're pushing ourselves here. I'm telling you what it looks like from the punt of the committee president's vision. If the president doesn't sign up two weeks earlier, then he's having trouble with the room. I would like to point out that if there's one more committee meeting... That's the problem. I would ask your marshal to come to the Sejm and ask us, especially at a time when there are no sittings, to use the halls in the main corridor, as has been the case so far. There was no problem with that before, and I don't really understand where the salami trouble comes from. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the presence at committee meetings, or actually the movement of senators from one committee meeting to another, is a very difficult task, also at the quorum meeting. That's what I'm paying attention to.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u145	Thank you very much, Senator, for that vote. Let me remind you that we are still acting under pandemic conditions and subject to various limitations. I would not see any ill will on the part of the Sejm here, but of course we will proceed to the talks with Marshal Witek so that, especially when these halls are empty, we can see the committee sittings in them. You expected to be able to participate remotely in committee meetings This decision was taken at the request of many senators And that's not an option in those halls. But the subject is important and I'll take it. There's no more... I'm gonna... Excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u146	I have the following question. In accordance with the rules and practices adopted, the committee should have quite a specific or specific scope of action. The wording from field to table is non-communicative and even a little humorous. We should not use such statements in the Senate for such important matters as the definition of the scope of the committee's activities. However, I would urge your senator and your marshal not to consider this point today, but to prepare it seriously. Well, the senators are just laughing at it because there's really something to laugh at. My ability to analyze Polish language is failing here. The senator says that the formulation from field to table is about issue. Well, languageally speaking, I can't see it here. There are some shortcuts of thought here, some rhetorical figures that shouldn't have a place in such documents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u147	I'll answer right away. This is a remark that you should also address to the European Commission and the European Parliament, because it is widely used there.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u149	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. Maybe it's for good luck. I'll accept Senator Wind's request. Well, are we that urgent? The climate will withstand, and in two weeks we will not be able to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by half in Poland or in the world at all. Well, you can still set ambitious goals. And now it's gonna be serious. I would nevertheless like to draw attention to the wording of the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure: The Senate shall appoint standing committees for a specific type of case Permanent, that is, acting permanently, constantly investigating cases from a given scope and may set up and resolve extraordinary committees to carry out specific tasks. So, naturally, such a committee should be dissolved. The word "tasks" is plural because it is referred to committees to carry out specific tasks. These are the basics of logic. Ladies and gentlemen, the emergency committee has a job to do. When this task is completed, it is solved. That's the way it's supposed to be. Of course, you can act differently, but that's how we ruin the Senate's structure. After all, it is possible to set up a standing committee and separate a certain range of cases for it, as was the case with any other committee. It's not like there's anything holding us back here. Why do we need an emergency commission? To empathize with it outside? Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u150	Mr. Senator, I'm trying to keep up with your logic, but you want to liquidate a committee we haven't set up yet. This is the charm of the extraordinary committees that they can be invoked and solved. The Senate in its majesty will be able to make this committee a permanent committee. This discussion is getting a little futile, because I already asked if there was any objection to the introduction of this point, and I did not hear any objection. At the moment, we are already dealing with this point, not the diwagations, what to do and what not to do, what to eliminate and what to call. Senator Rusiecki reporting in.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Well, I understand exactly what you mean by Senator Czerwinski. The aim of this committee is clearly defined at this very particular time. My question is very simple: will Senator Gawłowski apply to chair this committee? If she's called, I'll answer you. I'd like a clear answer. It was bright.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u152	The clear answer is contained in Article. 58 Rules of Procedure: The first meeting of the committee shall be convened and chaired by the Senate Marshal. At that meeting, the committee shall elect a candidate for president from its composition. This is the answer contained in the article. 58. The first sitting will probably be convened at the next Senate meeting. I don't see any more calls, so thank you, Senator. Thank you very much. We are voting on the establishment of an Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'd like to see the voice-over results, please. 97 senators voted, 50 against 17, 30 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the establishment of an Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. We proceed with the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this matter is included in print No 155. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to submit a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u153	The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee at its meeting on 1 July 2020, on the basis of Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, dismisses Senator Mark Pęka from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz from the Health Committee. The resolution was adopted by a majority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u154	Thank you very much. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? If not, we shall proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the composition of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results... I'm still sorry, one voter from the remote is asked to finish the vote, otherwise we'll be waiting 20 seconds. Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, in favour of 95, against two, with one abstention. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. We return to the examination of the second agenda: the Polish Tourist Bone Act. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation took place at the end of the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 151 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Richard Majer, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. The Commissions at its meeting on 2 July 2020 considered the proposals submitted during the debate on 1 July 2020 on the Polish Tourist Bona Act and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is ready to adopt the following conclusions set out in point II. : 1s, 13s, 36, 38, 40s, 45s, 48s, 51s, 60s, 62s, 69s, 73s and 75s.79. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u156	Thank you very much. Do the Senators of the applicant or the other Senators of the rapporteur still want to speak? For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the senators Adam Szejnfeld, Leszek Czarnobaj, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Maria Koc, Marek Pęk, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski submitted their conclusions during the discussion. In addition, the rapporteurs were Senator Artur Dunin, the minority of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Maria Koc. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation; Senator Adam Szejnfeld, minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, followed by a vote on the amendments tabled if the proposal is rejected. We proceed with the vote on the motion to adopt the law without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted against, 2 against, 94 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has rejected the motion to adopt the law without amendment. So we begin voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 96 for, 3 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 2 aims to allow payment with the Polish Tourist Bonus for the use of the tourist service. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] Note: Amendments 3, 4, 8, 15, 21, 38, 42, 75 and 76 must be voted in total. If amendments Nos 17, 18 and 20 are adopted at a later date, this will result in the need to replace in the text of amendment No 21 the words "PLN 500' with the words "PLN 1 000'. The above amendments aim to extend the scope of persons entitled to the Polish Tourist Bonus to persons receiving pension benefits. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 52 for, 47 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 5 seeks to delete non-normative content. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] N.B.: Amendments 6, 7, 9, 10, 14, 19, 40, 41, 46, 48 and 57 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to ensure terminology consistency in the provisions of the Act. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 13]] N.B.: Amendments 11, 16, 36, 43, 54 and 58 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments excludes voting on Amendments 12, 37, 39, 44, 49, 50, 61, 72 and 74. Amendments 11, 16, 36, 43, 54 and 58 aim to extend the scope of persons entitled to the Polish Tourist Bonus to persons who could not be granted an educational benefit due to the application of the provisions on the coordination of social security systems. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] We now move on to Amendment 13, which should be voted on together with Amendment 35. These amendments seek to take account of the fact that the provisions of Article. 5 to 17 of the Act do not constitute general provisions. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 46 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 15]] Amendments 14, 15 and 16 have already been voted jointly in the groups of amendments. We are now voting on Amendments 17, 18 and 20, which should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will result in the need to replace in the text of Amendment 21, on which we have already voted, the words "PLN 500" with the words "PLN 1000." These amendments aim to increase the amount of benefits in the form of vouchers from PLN 500 to PLN 1000. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 6 were in favour, 66 against, 25 abstentions. [[Voting No 16]] Attention, amendments 22 and 77 should be voted on together. These amendments aim at the correct location of the content of the Article. 47 in the bill's system. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 23 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 votes in favour, 95 against, 1 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 24 seeks to clarify the reference to a separate law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 45 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 25 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One of the people voting remotely... Oh, she's already voted. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 26 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 27 is also editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Attention, amendments 28 and 30 should be voted on together. These amendments aim to take account of the circumstances in which the activities of the operators of tourist events and hotel services can also be carried out using accounts at the Cooperative Credit and Savings Fund. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 96 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 23]] Amendment 29 seeks to clarify the obligation of the tourist operator and the organisation of public benefit with regard to the place where information on the possibility of making payments by means of the Polish Tourist Bonus was posted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Attention, amendments 31 and 32 should be voted on together. They aim to ensure that the removal from the list of entities entitled to receive payments by means of the Polish Tourist Bonus due to non-compliance with the facts of the name of the person making the registration is preceded by a call to update these data. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 96 senators, 50 votes against, 45 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 33 aims to abandon the standardization, according to which it is not possible to re-registered a tourist operator and a public benefit organisation which has been removed from the list of entities entitled to receive payments using the Polish Tourist Bonus. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment No 34 seeks to waive the rules providing for exemptions from the scope of the Law on Public Procurement in respect of service or supply contracts awarded for the purpose of carrying out the tasks of the Act by the Polish Tourism Organisation and the Social Insurance Institution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 49 for, 45 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 27]] Attention, Amendments 44, 61... they've already been voted on. Amendments 45 and 47 should now be voted on together. They are editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 95 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] Attention, amendments 51 and 52 should be voted on together. They are editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted against, 96 against, 1 against. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 53 seeks to ensure that the reference used is correct. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] Amendment 55 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] Amendment 56 seeks to delete a non-normative provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 50 for, 46 against, one abstention. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 59 seeks to clarify the scope of personal data processed on the health status of the disabled child. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 60 seeks to ensure that the reference used is correct. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] Amendment 62 aims to reduce the cost of implementing the Act by the Social Insurance Institution. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 35]] Amendment 63 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 64 is also editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] Amendment 65 is also editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] Amendment 66 seeks to delete the definition of advertising for criminal purposes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 39]] Amendment 67 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] Amendment 68 seeks to ensure consistency within criminal rules. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] Amendment 69 seeks to ensure consistency between Chapter 7 of the Act and its content. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] N.B.: Amendments 70 and 71 should be voted on together. These amendments seek to delete the provisions which provide for the amendment of the law on the system of development institutions and the so-called "development institutions." Act on COVID-19. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 1 for, 95 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 73 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] Amendment 78 seeks to add provisions that, if the child of the entitled person had the right to provide education and an allowance on the date of entry into force of the Act, the provisions of the Act shall apply to that person until 31 March 2022 irrespective of the age of that child. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 79 seeks to add a provision whereby the Minister responsible for Tourism will provide the Sejm with information on the implementation of the Act and on the assessment of the effectiveness and economic effects of vouchers by 31 August 2021 and by 31 August 2022. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 51 against, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] We have concluded the vote on the amendments. We are now voting on a resolution on the adoption of the law. We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 47]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the Polish Tourist Bone. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a summary of all the proposals that were submitted during the committee meeting; Senate printing No 149 A. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on Senator Richard Majer's motion to adopt the bill without amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 97 senators, 58 votes against, 38 against and 1 abstention. [[Voting No 48]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act on amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crime against the Polish Nationals. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 150 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 removes the wrong reference and clarifies to which the court will not apply the provisions of a more comparative law to the perpetrators of communist crimes. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 49]] The second amendment amends the wording of the transitional provision. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We are now voting on a resolution on the bill... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Excuse me. Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 50]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 95 in favour, no one opposed, one abstention. [[Voting No 51]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance of Crimes against the Polish Nationals. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 13th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators intending to make a statement. The declaration may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's delivery would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. I ask you to present the statement to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u157	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? I can hear you. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! My statement is addressed to the Minister of Sport, Danuta Dmowska-Andrzejuk, who visited my hometown last week. This request was directed to me by the people of my town, and mostly to take sports, people associated with sports. The minister visited my city, and more of the suburbs of my hometown, unfortunately she only went to the economic zone, to the economic zone building. She met with a small group of PiS activists there. And what really upset the locals was the words she said during a TV interview given to one of the Wałbrzych TV because she talked about sports infrastructure in my town, although she had not seen it, she had only a political message from her colleagues from PiS. And she said that sports infrastructure in the city of Wałbrzych, quote, is tragic and in complete ruin. Those are words that should never appear in the Minister's mouth, and those words that offended the people of my city. And they asked me to correct it and tell the minister what this infrastructure really looks like and everything about sports in my city. I would just like to add that full information is being prepared for the Minister about what we have been able to build, renovate from 2011 until now. I would also like to give you hot information on the fact that in 2011 and 2014 expenditure of the municipality of Wałbrzych, my city, is over PLN 140 million, which has been invested in this sport infrastructure. And what the Minister unfortunately did not mention is a fact that I must say 'I want him to sound very strongly 'that since 2015, since the change of power, unfortunately we have not received any support from the Ministry of Sport, although many projects have been submitted for support, many applications have been submitted to the Ministry for support. Unfortunately, all claims were rejected. We didn't get any cash for another five years. And we are convinced that, unfortunately, this was not due to substantive decisions. And I'm saying it straight and forth. Of these 140 million PLN, which we managed to spend in 2011 and 2014 but also from the money of our city in the years to come, 2015, 2016, 2017 - i.e. an additional 30 million PLN... This is primarily the construction of our sports and recreation center, it is renovated swimming pools, it is 2 halls, including one athletic, but also eagles, sports fields, especially halls at our Wałbrzych schools. All of them have been refurbished, it's also a sports facility that we've been able to build, a modern sports facility where there's a 4-track athletic treadmill, a sprint treadmill, a huge football field, a long-distance jumper, a ball thrower or a tennis court. Our sports environment, such as the real thing, is outraged by everything that's happened. I was also asked to stress that in our hometown, our sports base has representations of various sports, e.g. Last time we hosted a team of volleyball volleyball players who played a game with the Czechs. It was two wins, I think the Minister will know that. For years, staff of various sports are using this Wałbrzych sports base and coming back to us because sports conditions, conditions for training, for playing social games are great, which emphasizes and returns annually to our sports base. International competitions are also organized in various disciplines and all those who participate in them, players, coaches, staff, also highly praise the general conditions. They talk about it in Poland and all those who plan to come to our city or plan their sports stay. These are absolutely only good memories, hence their return and other sports camps, which are organized here in Wałbrzych. What I would like to say is that my people have said that the information about the tragic and complete ruin of our sports infrastructure is not true, it is harmful. They're outraged by the Minister's words. They believe that the Minister will come to Wałbrzych one day and want to visit our city, see the effort we've put into renovating, building new facilities, and maybe change his mind. And now this reflection at the end, I think it's important to the Minister. It's a pity that because of what happened, and because of how the Minister behaved... Senator, five minutes. I'm finishing up, yes, of course. ...how she assessed our city and all our efforts... We regret that in our city you will be remembered not as a prominent athlete who won medals at global or European events, but you will be remembered as a former minister in the PiS government, who presented a false and hurting political message transmitted by his party, political colleagues, who, unfortunately, Wałbrzych do not wish well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u158	Thank you very much, Senator. You're making a statement, Senator Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, the statement is addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, Mr Andrzej Adamczyk. Dear Minister, I would like to express my non-content regarding the lack of funding for the construction of Złota Street and the inclusion of this task only on the list of reserve projects of the Self-Government Road Fund. Construction of Złota Street in Częstochowa will improve the living conditions of many inhabitants. First of all, it will allow the efficient connection of investment areas of the Katowice Special Economic Zone with DK-1 and the A-1 motorway. The city of Częstochowa prepared the design documentation and obtained the necessary permits, it also has a secured own contribution equivalent to 50% the total value of the task. It is also worth noting that the Silesian Voivodeship Office qualified the construction of Złota Street as a legitimate and necessary task. The City Council of Częstochowa adopted a resolution and intervened in this matter. I move that the construction of Złota Street in Częstochowa be possible by increasing the funds of the Fund for Roads of Local Government. Please also include this investment in the list of basic tasks. Minister, I'm asking you to answer if the motion will be processed. And a second statement, addressed to the Minister of Health, Mr Łukasz Szumowski. Dear Minister, On behalf of myself and the inhabitants of Częstochowa and the Częstochowa subregion, I would like to express my concern and bitterness as a result of the lack of a suitable laboratory in Częstochowa, in which tests could be carried out for SARS-CoV-2 by PCR. The city of Częstochowa has reported the need for such a laboratory since the beginning of the announcement of the pandemic. This would seal the virus detection system and speed up the examination of samples taken from patients. Hospitals in Częstochowa are exposed to unnecessary costs of transport of test material for Coronavirus to laboratories located several dozen kilometres from the city. In addition, at the Regional Specialist Hospital. The Blessed Virgin Mary in Częstochowa operates a branch of infectious diseases which cannot properly and comprehensively take care of patients with suspicion of SARS-CoV-2 infection. The lack of rapid diagnosis at the place of delivery conflicts with the principles of proper treatment of infectious diseases. The Silesian province is currently struggling with the most serious epidemic situation in Poland. There are 14 laboratories in its territory, but all of them are located outside the northern part of the voivodship. Although the epidemic situation is stable in Częstochowa, it requires constant and adequate control and security. The top risk of the coronavirus has not passed, therefore the need to create a laboratory is justified. It will allow you to test samples of people who may be potentially at risk without unnecessary delays. Resolutions and interventions on this issue were submitted by the City Council of Częstochowa. Referring to the above, I request universal and equal access to appropriate tests for the inhabitants of Częstochowa and the region through the creation of a special laboratory. Please answer whether and when it will be created in Czestochowa a laboratory that will perform tests for SARS-CoV-2 by PCR. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-02-senat-13-2.u160	Thank you very much, senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 13th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The 13th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. Thank you very much. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[End of session at 18 minutes 37]]
