ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u1	High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! I would like to inform you that today there will be meetings of the Commission: - Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Affairs - hour. 13, - Culture and Media - hour 13, - Poselska etiquette - hour. 13.30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u2	Thank you. We will now proceed with the quorum. I ask all Members to press any button to establish a quorum. You're welcome. 422 Members shall take part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left, formal proposal. One minute, sir. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u3	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I kindly ask you to order a break and to convene a Senior Convention on the establishment of an additional committee for the Republic of Poland in the Sejm. the settlement of elections. Yesterday's Seym Health Commission, among others. by the votes of the ladies and gentlemen of the Members of the PiS, she rejected the draft law on the functioning of health protection. It would therefore be a strange situation in this Chamber, as we would vote on a minority proposal on health protection. This is a law that is needed, but if it were to be referred to the Committee on the Functioning of the European Union. the settlement of elections here on the settlement of elections, we would avoid a situation in which this law would be non-compliant. So I would kindly ask you to set up a committee for: the settlement of elections. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u4	Thank you, sir. It's not, of course... Formal conclusion. Wait a minute, I hear you. This is not a formal proposal, Mr President, to appoint a new committee. Which one of you ladies first? There you go, Mrs Skowronska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u5	Dear Marshal! Mr Szopiński asked for the draft election settlement bill to be sent back to the Health Committee to cover PLN 70 million illegally issued by Minister Sasina. I have a request for vote and procedure today. Since the amendments have not been discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Health, I ask that your marshal allow the debate on this issue in plenary of the Sejm. It's important that we know that the accounts... As you are trying to say or legalize the illegal way in which public money is spent. I would like to ask for this, because there was a second amendment of yours, so that not only expenses, purchases related to making choices, even devices or bags, which will remain in the Polish Post Office to cover the costs... [[♪ The bell ♪]] ...they handed over the taxpayers' money. This is a matter of your honor, and you should allow this to happen in the plenary session of the Sejm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u6	Thank you, Member. Madam President, thank you for caring for my honour, but it is not at this stage, Mrs President. Thank you. The Bureau of the Sejm submitted a proposal for the election of the President of the State Commission to clarify cases of action against sexual liberty and customs in relation to a minor under the age of 15, print No 518. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 9 (1) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Wedding the members of the State Commission to clarify cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. According to Art. Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 of the Act on the State Commission on the investigation of cases of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under 15 years before the entry into service of duties, the members of the committee shall take a vow before the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. I state that the members of the committee: Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Mrs Hanna Elżanowska, Mr Błażej Kmieciak, Mrs Justyna Kotowska, Mrs Elżbieta Malicka, Mr Andrzej Norakski and Mrs Agnieszka Rękas have come forward to take their vows. I ask the members of the committee to approach the Presidency table and, ladies and gentlemen, please rise. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] I'll read the vows now: I solemnly pledge that, in the performance of my duties as a member of the State Commission, I will uphold the rights of the child, following the laws of the law, the welfare of the child and the welfare of the family, in order to clarify cases against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. I pledge that I will carry out my duties impartially, with the utmost care and diligence, that I will uphold the dignity of my position and keep my secret legally protected. Mrs. Barbara Chrobak. Mrs. Barbara Chrobak: I pledge. So help me God. Mrs. Hanna Elżanowska. Hanna Elżanowska: I pledge. Mr. Blaze Knuckle. Mr. Blaze Knuckle: I promise. So help me God. Mrs. Justyna Kotowska. Mrs Justyna Kotowska: I pledge. Mrs. Elizabeth Malick. Elżbieta Malicka: I pledge. Mr. Andrzej Novarski. Mr Andrzej Novarski: I pledge. So help me God. Mrs. Agnieszka Hands. Mrs Agnieszka Hands: I pledge. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you. I state that Mrs Barbara Chrobak, Mrs Hanna Elżanowska, Mr Błażej Kmieciak, Mrs Justyna Kotowska, Mrs Elżbieta Malicka, Mr Andrzej Novarski and Mrs Agnieszka Rękas have taken the oath of members of the State Commission to explain cases of actions against sexual freedom and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: Election of the President of the State Commission for the purpose of clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 (Print No 518). According to Art. 7 of the Act on the State Commission on the Clarification of Acts Against Sexual Liberty and Vice-President to a Minor Under 15 years of age, the Chairman of the Committee shall elect from among its members the Sejm of the Republic of Poland by a simple majority. Bureau of the Sejm, on the basis of the Rule. 31e paragraph. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, presents the candidacy of Mr Blaze Kmieciak as chairman of the committee in print No 518. Please take the floor of Marshal Richard Terletki to present Mr Blaze Kmieciak's candidacy.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u7	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Allow me to make a recommendation to the Sejm Bureau on the election of the chairman of the committee. Mr. Błażej Kmieciak is a habilitated doctor of legal sciences and is also a sociologist, special teacher and bioethician. He has the right to a mediator in matters relating to children. He has completed child rights training at Harvard, Georgetown and UNICEF universities. After his studies, he worked as a therapist at the Center for Prophylaxis and Drug Addiction Therapy. Since 2006, he has been a spokesperson for the rights of a patient in a psychiatric hospital. This function was performed in most psychiatric hospitals of the Łódź voivodship, first on behalf of the Ministry of Health and then the Office of the Ombudsman. For 8 years he carried out his tasks, among others. in the psychiatry clinic, in the nutrition ward and in the psychiatry department. He has carried out numerous checks on the respect of the rights of minors in psychiatric institutions. As part of his duties, he provided legal advice and support to minors and adults who were victims of violence, including sexual violence. After graduating from the Civil Service Corps in 2013, he began working as an assistant at the Medical Law Department of the Medical University of Łódź. He is currently an aide, and in 2020, according to the decision of the Medical University authorities, he is to become a professor of the university. As part of his teaching activities he conducts e.g. subjects such as children's rights as a patient, law and psychiatry, law - social challenges of violence. The scientific work combines with practical activities - in 2014 and 2017 he collaborated with the Foundation for Psychosocial Support as a pedagogue, therapist and preventive course. In the clinic, he held family meetings in Łódź for several years in the field of family mediation. In the Lonely Mother's House in Łódź, he spent six months in the field of social skills development in people experiencing violence, and in cooperation with the Foundation Life, he trained police staff, courts and social services in the field of regulations on professional secrecy. He is the author of several books, more than 200 reviewed scientific publications on medical law, the relationship between law and pedagogy, psychiatry and social sexology and the protection of children's rights. The Bureau of the Sejm recommends Dr Blazej Kmieciak to chair the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u8	Thank you, Marshal. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on your candidacy? I propose that in the debate on this item... Yes. I volunteered. I know, my fellow Member. I propose that the Sejm listen to 2 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Scheuring-Wielgus was the only one to sign up. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u9	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I understand I have two minutes. I would like to remind all of you that this committee, by many organisations in Poland, by constitutionalists, has been assessed by experts as a committee which is unconstitutional and illegal. That's one thing. Secondly, today's election of the chairman of the committee was not unanimous. I would like to point out that only three people voted in favour of Mr Kmiesik's candidacy at the Bureau meeting, three abstentions, and it is worth knowing that. And the third thing to know is that the man who is to be chair of this committee is also a person who works with the ideological and fundamentalist Ordo Iuris organization. You're lying! It is an organization that is funded by radical people, with fundamentalist views, both in America and in Russia, Putin. I'd like you to know that. You're lying! This is an organization that affects legislation in many countries around the world. And that's the person to choose as chairman of the pedophilia committee, that's, ladies and gentlemen, shame and shame. [[Applause]] I would like you both to know here, as well as the viewers and viewers, that today law and justice elects as chairman of the pedophilia committee a person who cooperates with the fundamentalist and religious organization Ordo Iuris. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] That's terrible. How can you cooperate with a religious organization... It is a disgrace, it is a disgrace to the Polish state that such a person will be at the head of this committee. [[Applause]] Taking advantage of the fact that I have 45 seconds to speak, I would also like to point out that this committee will certainly not lean over pedophilia among the clergy, and our task was to clarify matters that were presented in the films of the Sekielski brothers, in both. I would like to point out that the only organization in Poland which systematically hides paedophiles is the Catholic Church in Poland. [[Applause]] Don't lie to me! Horrible. I'd like you to know that. And let me repeat: the person you are choosing today as chairman of the pedophilia study committee is working with the fundamentalist and religious organization Ordo Iuris. And this is a disgrace to the Polish parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u10	Mrs. Member! Mrs. Member! First of all, Madam President, I would like to remind you that when we elected the committee, the 411 Members 401 voted in favour, which is practically the whole House. So what? Second, it's not true what you're saying that the Professor is working with Ordo Iuris. That's the truth. You're lying. Thirdly, Commissioner, until the day before the day before yesterday. 21 was the time to submit candidates for president. There was only one candidacy. So, what you said a moment ago, you're missing out on... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No one was against it, three people abstained... But I said it. ...but as a result of the vote, the Bureau took this decision by a majority. And it's a disgrace. That's how you stand and lie. Mrs. Member! Don't argue with democracy. [[Touchdown, applause]] Ha, ha, ha! Please, Mrs Barbara Nowack.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u11	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! This really isn't a good decision, what you're proposing. This is neither a decision adopted in agreement, nor a decision which, however, will explain the scandals of the crimes of paedophilia, including the crimes of paedophilia committed in the Church and systematically concealed. What about celebrities? I would remind you that the entire composition of the committee chosen by our House is your nominations, your Members and your Members from the PiS. You have not allowed any other voice, but the voices of the people appointed by you. Now we are to elect a president for whom there are really strong controversy in civil society. What? His connection to Ordo Iuris is simply a fact. And you may scream, but you will not scream the truth or the problem of hiding pedophilia in the Church. Who's yelling? You're not gonna yell the truth about not wanting to explain these crimes. You're the one protecting celebrities. Director. You pretended the Sekielski movie didn't happen. Do you think that... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Every pedophile, ladies and gentlemen, everyone. Whether they're wearing pants or a dress or a casket. The Commission was to be impartial and the committee in this composition would not be impartial. The High Chamber should have a moment to reflect, and therefore we ask you, Mrs Marshal, for a break, for an opportunity to familiarize yourself with the detailed biography of you, the candidate for president, with the truth, and not just information about his publications. Didn't you prepare for the meeting? You don't want a committee, that's all. Finally, we ask the High House to take the side of children, victims of pedophiles. Do not hide these criminals in your ranks or in other places. LGBT. The institution that's supposed to explain the crimes of pedophilia is supposed to explain them everywhere, honestly and impartially. And your scream only shows your fear. Thank you. And that you're lying.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u12	Thank you very much. Here you are, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, the Wheel of the Polish Confederation. Your Marshal, may I continue as a correction? No. Not anymore. Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u13	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! First of all, I would like to congratulate the elected members of the panel on explaining and combating paedophile crimes. I would like to wish them on behalf of the Sejm that they play a really important role. And I would like them to have a slightly better impression from this House than just memories of the hysteria and slanders we hear here from the representatives of the left from the Civic Coalition or the left from the Left. Mr. Dr. Hab. Blaze Kmieciak was actually associated with one of the conservative think tanks, while there is no reason for this to be an argument that is to disqualify anyone. It's a decision to propose Dr. Hab right now. Blaze Kmieciak on the chairman of this committee is a positive surprise after having rejected the opposition's proposal earlier, i.e. Fr. Isakowicz-Zalewski. Mr. Kmieciak was proposed against what we expected. We expected the PiS to propose to the chairman of the committee a person closely associated with this party in order to control the course of this committee. Fortunately, that was not the decision. An expert, a scientist, a man whose experience is very difficult to question, was proposed, and the left-hand side of the political scene focused on slanders, slanders. I encourage you to stop saying that because it really doesn't do any good. As a Confederation, we will vote in favour of this candidacy. We consider this to be a substantive choice. I would even say that after the sad fact that there was a three-time vote of the PiS against the Fr. Isakowicz-Zalesk, who became famous for his struggle to explain these issues, the proposal of such a president is a sign of hope that this committee will have a positive effect and will have a positive role in explaining those cases in which it is undoubtedly necessary to break institutional blockades, including as regards explaining paedophile crimes involving Catholic clergymen. You have to explain that as much as you can. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u14	Thank you very much, sir. As the last Mrs Anita Czerwińska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u15	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to address you in particular from the Left. The state is attacking the candidate for admitting that he is declaring his faith. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I wanted to point out that in Poland most Poles declare their religion of Catholic faith. Please, I urge you to respect this. There is no reason, Madame, for you to go back to the times of the Polish People's Republic here. I understand that the state as the natural heirs of that time misses them... You are heirs of that time, with Peterovich. ...but today there is democracy in Poland. Everyone has the right to freedom of religion, conscience. Please don't attack a believer from this podium. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u16	Thank you, Member. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. We are voting on the election of the chairman of the committee. I remind you that the chairman of the committee of the Sejm shall elect by simple majority. We proceed with the vote on Mr. Blaze Kmieciak's candidacy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of choosing Mr Blaze Kmieciak as President of the State Commission for clarifying cases of actions against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 244 - for, 173 - against, 34 abstained. The Sejm elected Mr Błażej Kmieciak as President of the State Commission on the investigation of acts against sexual liberty and customs towards a minor under the age of 15. [[Applause]] Congratulations to the President. Let me remind you that the Coalition Parliamentary Club of the Left has applied for items to be added to the agenda: - First reading of the parliamentary bill on safe abortion and on education on health and sexuality, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for the elections of the President of the Republic of Poland and the actions taken so far by the authorities competent to carry them out, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of preparation for a possible second wave of SARS-CoV-2 infection. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of Formal proposal, Mrs Wanda Nowicka. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u17	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Who? We talked a lot about women's rights during this meeting. Now you have the chance to show that, actually speaking of women's rights, you remember that deciding about your own fertility, the possibility of abortion or contraception is one of the fundamental rights of women. You can't take them away from him. Killing. I therefore call for you to vote for this bill because women are waiting for it. And one more thing. Mrs. Marshalkini! Your Marshal misled us by saying that we voted on Mr. Kmieciak's candidacy. Mr Kmiesiak was designated by the Ombudsman and therefore there was no vote in the Chamber on this candidacy. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u18	First of all, this is not a formal proposal, second of all, you should know, Madam, what authorities are submitting candidates to committee. I said that every club had the right to apply for president. Reading doesn't hurt. For 411 Members, when we voted on the bill to appoint a committee... And when was that bill? ...last year, 411 voted for 401. I am talking about the Sejm, Member. I'm talking about the Seym too. That you weren't there at the time, a tough case. Thank you, it wasn't a formal conclusion. [[Applause]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal for a first reading of the draft abortion bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 148 for, 267 against, 25 abstentions. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on a proposal on the Prime Minister's information on the preparations for the elections. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 217 for, 231 against, one abstention. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal on Prime Minister's information on the state of preparation for a possible second wave of epidemics. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 214 - for, 233 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We return to the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the provisions of the agreement signed at the extraordinary European Council in Brussels on 17 and 21 July 2020. In the discussion, a request was made to reject the information submitted, which I will put to the vote. You asked Minister Zbigniew Ziobro for the floor. One minute, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u19	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are discussing the Prime Minister's information on the findings of the European Union summit in Brussels. And I'd like to join in congratulating you, [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] which were directed in this Chamber, related to the record amount negotiated by the Prime Minister. Flowers, flowers. And you can see this confusion in the eyes of many opposition members who have said, "This is impossible." It turns out that when someone acts professionally, it's possible. Vaseline. But I also have a second piece of information about a case in which I really wanted to address myself as the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General. It refers to a point of no less importance to me in connection with this budget, concerning the so-called. The rule of law. So-called, because the word is nicely associated, but the question is what was behind it as part of a project that was originally submitted. There was a solution, a mechanism that was actually aimed at this European rule of law. He insults everyone. It was contrary to the principles of European treaties, it was contrary to the Polish constitution. A mechanism was introduced that was illegal from its very essence. Mr. Marshal Terlecki broke... Therefore, in support of the Prime Minister's negotiating role, as Minister of Justice, I have applied to the Council of Ministers for this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] that the Council of Ministers adopt a resolution in support of the Prime Minister, giving a strong negotiating mandate, so that he can oppose this kind of solution categorically. I must tell you that, in this dimension, we can also talk about success, as the Prime Minister informed us, and it is worth noting. In view of the various doubts that have arisen, I will recall the words of the Prime Minister, who here, in his various speeches and immediately after the negotiation process in Brussels, said: As we agreed with the legal services, this mechanism, which is to be developed, will at the same time be subject to the validation of the European Council. And the European Council, it is clearly written there, it is unanimity. I mean, without the consent of Hungary, without the consent of Poland, without the agreement of the Visegrad Group nothing will happen here. And for this information, I thank the Prime Minister too. This is very important because the European Union, the European Commission, is trying to expand the definition of the rule of law by referring it not only to the sphere of the judiciary, the prosecution, the law enforcement authorities - it even wants to reach into the sphere of the family, the sphere of culture, the sphere of the media. That is why this mechanism was so important and this determination, which Mr Morawiecki informed us about - that we also succeeded here. Ladies and gentlemen! For this reason, with full confidence, contrary to those voices that doubt, raise doubts, both in this Chamber and in the European Union, I would like to make it clear that I, as Minister of Justice and Solidarna Polska, whose leader I am, will vote in favour of this information. Thank you, Minister. After all, the information for which the Prime Minister takes full political responsibility both in terms of the findings, in terms of amounts and arrangements, in terms of issues related to the blocking of dangerous mechanisms for Poland, which he assured us of. And we have confidence in the Prime Minister. Thank you very much. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Self-criticism.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u20	Thank you, Minister. We're voting. Who of the Members is in favour of the request to reject the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the provisions of the agreement signed at the extraordinary European Council in Brussels on 17 and 21 July 2020 would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 210 - for, 235 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We return to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. The additional committee report shall be in print No 500-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska to present an additional report to the committee. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u21	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956, print No 452. The Sejm at its 15th meeting on 22 July this year, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 500 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to examine the amendment tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendment at its meeting on 22 July, asks the High Sejm to reject the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u22	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law on printing No 500. In an additional report, the committee presents an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment, the applicant shall propose the deletion of Article. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 171 - for, 237 - against, 42 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print 500 will want to press the button. It's not working. I know it's not working. It's working. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 440 was for, 3 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the provision of money to persons sent or deported to the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in 1939 and 1956. We refer to item 17 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 together with an analysis of the implementation of the State budget and monetary policy in 2019 by the Supreme Audit Chamber and a draft Commission resolution on discharge. The additional committee report shall be in print No 481-A. I ask Mr Henryk Kowalczyk to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u23	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday, at the plenary meeting of the Sejm, the budget debate, representatives of the Civic Coalition Club tabled a proposal, an amendment concerning the resolution of the committee. The amendment was intended to include in the resolution information on the absence of a report on the implementation of the budget and the failure to grant discharge to the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform you that the committee today has strongly recommended the amendment tabled. In this way, the committee requests discharge from the Council of Ministers, adoption of the budget report and rejection of the amendment tabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u24	Thank you. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 481. In an additional report, the Commission presented an amendment on which we will vote first. In the amendment, the applicant proposes a new wording of the draft resolution. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the adoption of a resolution as proposed by the applicants and the non- objectivity of the committee's proposal. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 218 was in favor, 233 against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the draft resolution as proposed by the committee. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers, in print No 481, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 237-- for, 212-- against, no one held back. I declare that the Sejm has adopted a resolution on the report on the implementation of the State budget for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2019 and on discharge for the Council of Ministers. We return to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 499-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anita Czerwinska to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u25	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present an additional report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs on the draft Government Act amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and some other laws, print No 430. The Sejm at its 15th meeting on 22 July this year, in accordance with the Rule. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 499 to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in order to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 22 July, asks that the High Parliament reject the amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u26	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Law No 499. The Commission sets out in its additional report the amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants shall propose amendments to Article. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1, Article 28, as well as in the following articles. 28a and 28b of the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services. Amendment 3 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 48 for, 392 against, 5 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 9a in the draft amending act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendment 2, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 204 - for, 243 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 12 draft amending act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 170 - for, 279 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 499 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 280 - for, 164 - against, 3 abstained. The Sejm passed a law amending the Posting of Workers Act in the framework of the provision of services and certain other laws. We would like to refer to item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Committee on the Government's draft law on specific arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs and the Prison Service. The additional committee report shall be in print No 493-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u27	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The work on this bill was quite long, but it can be said that the bill was adopted by the committee in an absolutely transparent manner, one that places the law quite well in terms of the method of proceding. At the last meeting, when the amendments were tabled, there were eight of them. They were blocked into three voting blocks, i.e. two doubles that were rejected by the committee and two that were accepted. To this end, the committee requests the adoption of a bill of amendments which the committee adopted at its last meeting. It deserves to be stressed, I have said this several times, in the sittings of the Sejm, that this law was very thorough. I have expressed my opinion, I will once again express it in the Sejm, and I have placed it in the hands of Minister Mariusz Kaminski, Minister Wąsik... This really required a very thorough, thorough proposal of changes and cooperation with the trade union community and all of this complex law, at the same time very expected by the environment of uniformed services... So, Minister, please accept your congratulations on behalf of, I hope, of the vast majority of the committee. It's all about the committee's report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u28	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 493. The Commission sets out in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the first amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the title of the Act. Amendment 6 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 2, 7 and 8. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 6 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 214 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the second amendment, applicants propose a different wording of the title of the Act. Amendments 7 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 2, 7 and 8 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 205 - for, 243 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 3 and 4 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Police Act. In the third amendment to the article. Article 135e (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 applicants propose a new wording of the second sentence. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 214 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. 135n applicants shall propose a new wording of paragraph. 3. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 217-- for, 232-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 39 of the Act on the State Fire Service, the applicant proposes to maintain the wording of paragraph 39. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 214 - for, 236 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 493, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 440 for, 3 against, no one stopped. The Sejm passed a law on special arrangements for the support of uniformed services supervised by the Minister responsible for Home Affairs, amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. [[Applause]] Mr Mariusz Kaminski asked for the floor of the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to express my great joy that this important, expected by uniformed officers was adopted in such a consensus, with such great support. Very cordial thanks to the President of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, to all the members of the clubs who have worked on this project, for this extremely substantive, solid discussion and the national seriousness that accompanied the work on this project. Taking the opportunity - I think I'm gonna be an emotional expression. All of us - on the occasion of the Police's Festival, I give my warm greetings to all the officers and wishes for a peaceful service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u30	Thank you very much, Minister. We are returning to the review of item 6 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and certain other laws. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 502. The Commission is also presenting a minority proposal on which we will vote first. In the sole request of a minority to Article. 401c. 9c of the Act - Environmental law applicants propose to add point 14. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of accepting a minority request would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 208 - for, 239 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print No 502, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 443 - for, no one was against, held back 2. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Biocomponents and Liquid biofuels and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 503-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Peter King to present an additional report to the committee. Is Mr Piotr King here? There isn't. He's missing in action. There isn't. There it is. Bravo! Take a 20-minute break. There is no rapporteur. [[Member's statement is displayed on screenshots]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u31	Yes, Your Marshal, I am. Mrs. Marshal! The High Sejm! Oh, you see, it's not worth robbing someone right away. Can you hear me, Marshal? You're welcome, sir. You're welcome. Please, sir, we are listening. Mr President, we're listening. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ha, ha, ha! Mr. President, can you hear us? Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present an additional report on the government... Talk to me, man. Nobody listens to you anyway. You're welcome, sir. Please. Yes, Your Marshal. I present an additional report by the Committee on Infrastructure on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Road Traffic and some other laws, print No 388. The Sejm at its 15th meeting on 22 July, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, re-directed the draft law contained in print No 503 to the Committee on Infrastructure to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Infrastructure, after considering the amendments, 26 of which were rejected and six adopted, proposes that the High Sejm adopt these six amendments and adopt the draft law. Excuse me, Marshal, for some delay in transmission. All States, the High Sejm greet you from the sunny, royal Bydgoszcz. Thank you very much. Ha, ha, ha!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u32	Thank you very much, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 503. The Commission also presents the minority proposal and, in its additional report, the amendments that we will be voting on first. The minority proposal and the amendments from 1 to 27 were tabled in Article. 1 draft amending act containing amendments to the Act - Traffic Law. In the first amendment to Article. 2 applicants propose a different wording of point 87. This amendment is combined with the 10th amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 2, 3 and 11 to 14. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 10 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 437 - for, against - 1, he abstained 1. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 4th amendment to the article. 60 (1) (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii)) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 167 - for, 272 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 73 applicants propose a new wording of paragraph. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 213 - for, 228 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment from Article. 73 applicants propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will render the minority's proposal unobtrusive. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 436 Members voted. 165 - for, 269 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the minority proposal to Article. 73 applicants propose to delete the words or are not kept in good condition in the added paragraph. 1a. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of a minority request will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 213 - for, 223 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. In the 7th amendment to the article. 73 applicants propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 1d. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 169 - for, 267 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 8th amendment to the article. 73 applicants propose to add paragraph. 6 and 7. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 210 for, 224 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 9th amendment to the inserted article. 73b applicants propose to give a new wording to paragraph. 6. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 9th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 439 Members voted. 213 - for, 225 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. Amendments 11 to 14 have become pointless. In the 15th amendment to the article. 74 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2. This amendment is combined with the 32nd amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of the 16th amendment. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 15 and 32 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 208 - for, 223 - against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendments. In the 16th amendment to the article. 74 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 433 Members voted. 208 - for, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment, the applicant shall propose to delete paragraph. 4 in the inserted article. 74a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 437 Members voted. 162 for, 274 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 78 applicants propose to add paragraph. 2a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 207 for, 227 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 78 applicants propose to add paragraph. 3a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 19th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 211 - for, 224 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 20th amendment to the article. 78a propose that the applicant delete paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 171 - for, 275 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 21st amendment to the article. 78a applicants propose a new wording of the added paragraph. 4a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 440 Members voted. 168 - for, 272 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment to the article. 78a propose to delete the added paragraph. 4b and 4c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 169 - for, 274 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment to the article. 80b applicants propose to add paragraph. 4a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is adopting the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 214 - for, 228 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 24th amendment to the article. The applicant shall propose to delete point 34 in paragraph 80c. 1. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will make the 25th amendment futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 24th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 217 - for, 227 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 25th amendment to the article. 80c applicants propose to add point 35. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 25th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 431 - for, 6 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 26th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 80s. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 214 - for, 228 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment, the applicant proposes to add paragraph. 5 in Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 100a. This amendment is combined with the 31st amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the amendments 27th and 31st will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 267 for, 175 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 28th amendment to the article. The 12th draft amending act shall propose that the applicant delete paragraph. 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 215 - for, against - 228, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 29th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 26 draft amending act. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 29th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 441 Members voted. 170 for, 271 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 30th amendment, applicants propose a new wording of the Article. 28 draft amending act. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 30th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. 428 - for, 5 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.503, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 325 - for, 2 - against, 118 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the law - Traffic Law and some other laws. With a formal motion, Mr. Jan Szopiński, Left. Please, sir. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are about to vote on the Health Protection Act. The Health Committee, which considered this project, became the most political committee of the Polish Parliament, because the issue of financial settlement of elections has no relation to the issue of health protection in Poland. Case number two. Today, everyone voting in favour of this bill will vote in favour of breaking the Public Finance Act in the future. The Left Club will not encourage anyone to violate the Public Finance Act. And case three. Dear President, I would like to thank you very warmly for the fact that, as part of your work on this bill, you were in favour of the motion of the Left Club to delete a passage from this law (The Bell) - I quote... Thank you. Mr... ...an obligation to reduce employment in the public administration.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u34	Mr President, this is not a formal proposal. Please don't abuse it. We're here on formal applications. Madam President, I hope you have a formal proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u35	Of course. After all, your marshal knows me, I only have formal conclusions. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There is no Minister of Health. I don't know if you're Minister Ziobro. You're Minister Ziobro, that should be the vote in favour. It is a vote in favour of throwing the entire bill in the basket, because it is not a law on care and about COVID-19, it is the legalization of the crime of spending 70 million PLN. [[Applause]] But it's not a formal conclusion. This is the sanctioning of the crime of spending 70 million PLN to protect from the responsibility of the Prime Minister, Mr Sasin, President of the Polish Post. But what is the formal conclusion? But what's the formal conclusion, I ask. And if you vote, you'll show that you're in favour. So we want your marshal to allow, to give the floor for each amendment, because you also smuggled in further amendments (the bell), which are... Thank you. Madam President, of course, this is not a formal proposal as usual. ...not in accordance with the applicable law. Thank you, Member. Thank you, Member. It's gonna be a test to see if you're behind the criminals... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u36	Thank you, Member. It wasn't a formal conclusion. Request for a change in the way the discussion is conducted. Is this a formal proposal, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u37	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today is exactly 100 years since the establishment of the Government of National Defence, a government which is a symbol of a great community, uniting all national forces in defence of Bolshevism. Therefore, your marshal, at this moment I ask you to rise, to honor all those who fought in such a national community 100 years ago for our Polish affairs... Your Marshal... But we did. ...on matters of national defense, defending us against the Bolsheviks. It's already been done. Wincenty Witos was the head of this government. I would ask that we pay our respects to all those who fought for Polish affairs... [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Thank you very much, sir, but let me remind you... ...who have created a beautiful coalition in defence of Polish affairs, and all those who have fought for Polish affairs for these 100 years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u38	Thank you very much, sir. The Seym should be serious. Mr President, this is not a formal proposal, but we will celebrate it. Your marshal, with a formal motion. Member, please... Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish with a formal application.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u39	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We thank you very much for the resolution we made at the beginning of this meeting, in the century of the Battle of Warsaw. Today, with the President, representatives, as far as I know, all parliamentary clubs will go to the monuments of Witos, Daszyński, Dmowski, Paderewski, Korfante and Piłsudski - the fathers of our independence. We will celebrate the appointment of the government of Wincent Witos, who protected Poland from the Bolsheviks, Mr Bolsheviks, because it is worth noting to be precise. But there is one proposal, a subject that needs to be addressed in this House. To this day on Vincent Witos, whom we mentioned just now, on the hero who was awarded the Order of the White Eagle, on one of the most outstanding men of the state bear the disgrace of Brest judgment. We've been asking for years to erase this disgrace. Once again, we are bringing a bill to the High House to wipe out the disgraceful sentence of the Brest court on Vincent Witos. Do you have the courage to support this proposal? Thank you very much, sir. Will you support this conclusion? Are we going to wipe out the disgrace of the Brest court? [[Applause]] Did you have the courage as a minister to do that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u40	Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know what this has to do with the COVID, but I do not understand. We're at item eight. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the report of the Health Commission on the draft law amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19. The additional committee report shall be in print No 505-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Bolesław Piecha to present an additional report to the committee. What does sugar have to do with COVID, Marshal? And Sasin? And 70 million? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please don't yell at the bench. Seriously, don't yell. When can we tell the truth that you're stealing money? I would like you to pay attention to the words, please, because you are a Member of the Polish Parliament. Of course. Please don't say that. Calm down. What's with the nerves, my fellow Member? Have a seat. We're on the report. Please, Mr Bolesław Piecha. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u41	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health an additional report on the Government's draft law amending certain laws in order to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to the COVID-19 epidemic and, which is important, after it has ceased. The report is provided. The Sejm held its second reading at its meeting on 22 July. During the second reading, 29 amendments were tabled and one proposal to reject the law in its entirety. The Health Commission on 23 July considered these amendments, this proposal, with the proposal to reject the law in its entirety supporting a small number of votes. [[Applause]] Bravo! Therefore, in accordance with the principles of legislation, no further amendments have been considered. As in such situations, after consulting the Legislative Office, it was decided that all other amendments would receive a negative recommendation. And this printing was delivered to you, print No 505-A. But who decided? Each Member shall decide how to vote because the committee shall deliver an opinion and the High House shall vote by law. Remember that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u42	Thank you, sir. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 505. The Commission also makes a proposal in an additional report to reject the draft law in its entirety and to amend it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] First of all, I will put to the vote a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Commission proposes that this proposal be adopted. Its adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. The committee's recommendation is the most important. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. For-- 213, against-- 231, no one stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In the 1st amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 1a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 443 Members voted. For - 207, against - 225, with 11. The Sejm rejected the amendment. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]] In the second amendment to the article. The draft law shall be proposed by the applicant in point 3 of paragraph 2. 16 plus the second sentence. Amendments 7, 13 and 14 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the adoption of Amendments 2, 7, 13 and 14 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 273 - for, 173 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the third amendment to the article. 3 of the draft law, the applicants propose in point 0 in point (a). and give a different wording to the paragraph. 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 409 - for, 35 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 4th amendment to the article. The draft law shall be proposed by the applicant in point 1 in Article. 4ab in the mouth. 1 the word "entity" replace by the words "business operator" which operates a pharmaceutical wholesaler. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 442 Members voted. 406 - for, 27 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 5th amendment to the article. 3 of the draft law the applicants propose in point 6 to add point. Uh-huh. Amendment 8 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Their adoption will result in the futility of amendments 6 and 9. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 5 and 8, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 404 - for, 32 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. Amendments 6 and 9 have become pointless. In the 10th amendment to the article. 4 the draft law of the applicant proposes to delete point 11c. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 10th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 238 - for, 199 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 11th amendment to the article. 4 of the draft law is proposed by the applicant, among others. in point 12b, delete point (b). a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 11th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 76 - for, 241 - against, 130 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 12th amendment to the article. 6a of the draft law, the applicants propose in point 3 to add a new wording to paragraph 3. 5a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 12th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 236 - for, 78 - against, 134 abstained. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 15th amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 13a. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the unsubstantiatedness of Amendment 16. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 15th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 167 - for, 274 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 16th amendment to the article. 13a of the draft law, the applicants propose to give a different wording to point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of amendment 26. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 16th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 167 for, 275 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 17th amendment to the article. The 14th draft law is proposed by the applicant in Article. 13a replace the third word with the fourth word. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 17th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 408 - for, 32 - against, 6 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 18th amendment to the article. 15 of the draft law propose to add point 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 18th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 236 - for, 201 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 19th amendment to the article. 16a of the draft law, the applicant proposes to delete point 1. Amendment 24 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on these amendments together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 19 and 24 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted. 361 - for, 83 - against, 3 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 20th amendment to the article. 16a of the draft law, the applicant proposes to delete point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the futility of Amendment 21. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 20th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? And the motion, Marshal? The motion came in? 449 Members voted. 218 - for, 230 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. The Civic Coalition's request for a recess to the hour was received. 13. I will therefore put this proposal to the vote. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House... But justification, Marshal. I have a motion in writing, Madame. That's enough for me. Then we'll vote. But you're trying to make us... Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the request for a time-out. 13, please press the button. But justification, Marshal. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 195 - for, 242 - against, 7 stopped. The Sejm's motion is denied. In the 21st amendment to the article. 16a of the draft law, the applicants propose to give a different wording to point 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 21st amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 218 - for, 232 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 22nd amendment, the applicant proposes to delete Article. 16b. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 22nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 205 - for, 237 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 23rd amendment, applicants propose a different wording of Article. 20. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 23rd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 416 - for, 30 - against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 25th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 26g. Amendment 29 is combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of amendments 25 and 29 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 235 - for, 204 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. In the 26th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 26g. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 26th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 202 for, 241 against, 5 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 27th amendment, the applicants propose to add an article. 26g to 26j. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 27th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. 238 - for, 201 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 28th amendment to the article. The 27th draft law is proposed by the applicant, among others. Delete paragraph 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 28th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 447 Members voted, 361 in favour, 75 against, 11 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Your Marshal, formal motion. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 505, will want to press the button. But you could look at us. Your marshal, I have a formal motion in writing and I want to justify it. Who's against it? Who's holding back? There's a vote. This is outrageous, what you're doing. And you were supposed to treat us all equally. You were supposed to be such a good lady. You can't avoid criminal liability. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] You're sanctioning lawlessness. Sasin's buying dinner. 450 Members voted. 230 for, 220 against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted a law amending certain laws to ensure the functioning of health protection in relation to and after the outbreak of COVID-19. Scandal! Ladies and gentlemen, I'm announcing a two-minute break and I'm asking the Senior Convention here in the back. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min. 57 hours 12 min 02]] I'm reopening the session. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to remove from the agenda the report of the committee on the draft law amending the Law on the special rules for the removal of legal effects of reprivatization decisions concerning Warsaw real estate, issued in violation of the law and the Real Estate Management Act, prints No 420, 451 and 451-A - third reading. We return to the consideration of item 9 of the agenda: Report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the draft resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the return of parts of Orava and Spiš to independent Poland (prints no. 412 and 496). Let's move on to the vote. The Commission requests the adoption of a draft resolution from print No 496. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft resolution as a whole in print no. 496, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 425 Members voted. 423 - for, The Sejm adopted a resolution on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of the return of parts of Orava and Spiš to independent Poland. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 400. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 400 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 434 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm adopted the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Belarus on cooperation in the field of the conservation and rational use of cross-border waters, signed in Białowieża on 7 February 2020. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the report by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Argentine Republic on extradition signed at Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of the draft law from print no. 433. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 433, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 438 - for, no one was against, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Poland and the Argentine Republic on extradition signed at Buenos Aires on 5 December 2019. We return to the review of item 14 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development on the Government's draft law on liability for breach of the provisions of the Regulation on mutual recognition of goods lawfully marketed in another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point on products. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 507. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.507, would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 427 for, 8 against, no one stopped. The Sejm has passed a law on liability for breach of the provisions of the mutual recognition regulation in accordance with the law of another Member State and the indication of the authority leading the contact point for products. We return to the examination of item 20 of the agenda: The document presented by the President of the Council of Ministers:.Information on the implementation of the Act on Special Economic Zones. As of 31 December 2019 with the position of the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development. The Commission requests that this information be accepted. A request for rejection was made in the discussion. I will put this motion to the vote. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has accepted the information. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the information contained in print No 397 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 132 for, 231 against, 75 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the application and therefore took note of the information. We return to the consideration of item 21. of the agenda: Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2019 together with the committee draft resolution. The Sejm conducted the first reading of the draft resolution. In view of the proposal to proceed to second reading without delay, objections were raised. We will settle this matter in the vote. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal to proceed to second reading without delay will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 237 - for, 208 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? Yes. Yeah, yeah. I'm opening a discussion... I propose that the Sejm listen to 1.5-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in a joint discussion. Your Marshal... If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection. We are voting against 1.5-minute statements. You're a marshal, but it's an insult. At least three minutes. You're welcome. We're voting. Who of the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of the proposal to hear 1.5-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles, please press the button. Who's in favour of a 1.5-minute speech on behalf of clubs and circles? One-and-a-half minutes is an insult. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Where are you guys in a hurry? Everyone insults the people who sit there with the president in charge. 445 Members voted. 233 - for, 209 - against, 3 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Śledzińska-Katarasińska, Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday on two points, very important points, we had five minutes, today your marshal gives 1.5 minutes at second reading... Scandal! ...and this morning, your marshal canceled two meetings of the committee to be held under the rule of law. 152, the first meeting on radio and the second meeting on television. What are you afraid of? What are you afraid of? [[Applause]] Shame! Shame! President, court of God or criminal liability? Chicken Jack. They're scared. Because I don't know. This information from the National Media Council and the National Council report do not deserve to be adopted. The first institution has turned into a seasonal work agency in leadership positions for the people of PiS and the favorable PiS, the second breaks the constitution, instead of upholding the right to information, it is the guardian of lies. [[Applause]] Instead of defending freedom of speech, he is guarding fraud, instead of upholding the public interest, he is guarding the interests of the Law and Justice and their officers. If someone's protecting the law and justice, that's probably a good thing. And that's your institution here? The jury was empty yesterday. Only the rapporteur had to endure (the bell), of course he was from PiS. Time. The government - uninterested, Mr. Chairman of these governments - bored... Mrs... ...and your marshal is shutting down the committee and giving us a minute and a half. Thank you, Member. Please, these are amendments, requests for rejection of both documents. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u44	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u45	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! I assumed there'd be a representative of the Left Club in front of me. At the first reading, I gave quite a detailed presentation on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club of reasons for which the report of the National Media Council is considered sloppy and unworthy of the seriousness of this House, unworthy of constitutional seriousness or the statutory obligation to report annually on its activities before the High House. But there is also a more serious reason why I would like to make a request on behalf of the Polish Coalition club to change the content of the resolution, which says that the Sejm rejects information about the activities of the National Media Council, because in our opinion this council has embezzled the purpose for which it was supposedly established. And so this goal was defined a few years ago by Mr Krzysztof Czabański, Deputy Minister of Culture, here in this Chamber, from this speaker: the aim of the National Media Council is to ensure that the media provide reliable information that will be separated from the opinion. Is this the information on Polish Television today, especially on TVP Info? That's a rhetorical question, because everyone knows that there's no integrity there, nor even more separation of facts from opinions. Especially on TVN. He said more that the assumption was that public media should be transparent to all political forces. Are these media really transparent to all political forces? That means it's a joke. This report does not address this issue, [[♪ The bell ♪]] it is regrettable, it deserves only to be rejected, which is expressed in our amendment. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u46	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, Parliamentary Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as public media are concerned, the National Radio and Television Council has never been a model body, but what you have done over the last six years, as you have trampled on the institution, as you have led this institution to become a government institution, I am talking about the National Radio and Television Council, is simply out of place. But TVN can fit in. These reports, which were presented here yesterday, call for vengeance to heaven and are completely worthless. The National Media Council is really a ghost body because it performs the duties of the National Radio and Television Council, which is illegal, for example. said your Constitutional Court. The National Radio and Television Council is completely blinded and does not see what everyone in Poland sees, that public television is hating, that public television is pissing on citizens and citizens, that public television has no journalists, only officers of Law and Justice, that public television is blind to minorities, that public television is doing everything to discriminate against those who are wrong in Poland. TVN. Private, she has the right. Esbecka. And today, as the Law and Justice, you vote in favour of the heyth, the slimy and the unjust. The left will never vote for it. [[Applause]] Who's talking? Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u48	Thank you, Member. Mr Artur Dziambor, Circle of the Parliamentary Confederation. Asia, you were cooler. We're not on you. Please calm your emotions on both sides. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u49	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Yesterday I said the same thing in an empty room. I'll say it again today. Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard from the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council that the National Radio and Television Council is on guard to ensure that the media transmits information in a fair way. So the fact that TVP is messing with our intelligence makes it pretty even what other stations are doing. The National Council is contented. Ladies and gentlemen, what we saw during the election campaign... Of course, it is 2020 and we are talking about 2019, but it is 2020 that has shown exactly what has been going on over the past years, since you are in power, at the helm, since your party officer is the head of Polish Television. What have we had in all the news, the most important information program we have in Poland? Each news began with 5, 6 minutes of love for Andrzej Duda and Law and Justice, then there were a few seconds of snapshots concerning all other candidates, during which Krzysztof Bosak, our candidate, sometimes had one sentence, often manipulated, and sometimes he was just shown, then there were about 10 and 12 minutes of hatred for Rafał Trzaskowski. You're the ones who caused his high score, you're the ones who created him. It was your officers sitting on the Polish Television who created his candidacy. What's going on out there is disgusting. And finally I will ask the question that I asked yesterday in an empty room: Are you letting your children and grandchildren go? [[Applause]] The president doesn't have kids or grandkids. He has a cat.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u50	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this draft proposal after giving the Members a statement of the amendments tabled. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Objection! Oh, Rafael, you're alive. We shall then proceed to the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of voting on the draft resolution after the statement of amendments has been served, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 438 Members voted. 242 for, 195 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm accepted the offer. We return to the discussion of item 22 of the agenda: Report from the National Radio and Television Council in 2019 together with information about the basic problems of radio and television in 2019 and the Commission's draft resolution. The Sejm conducted the first reading of the draft resolution. In view of the proposal to proceed to second reading without delay, objections were raised. We will settle this matter in the vote. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal to proceed to second reading without delay will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 232 - for, 212 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. We proceed to the second reading of the draft resolution. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak at the second reading of the draft resolution? Yes. I'm opening a discussion. I propose that the Sejm listen to 1.5-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle in a joint discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Mrs Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska has the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Yesterday the debate was common, so I have already handed to your marshal both applications for rejection: and information from the media council, and a report from the national council. But right now, as I see it, we're only staying on the matter of the national council. I would like to say that President Kołodziejski - I think he is a notabene councillor of Law and Justice, at least he has been and I think he is still so - it is constantly explained that the national council is responsible for financial balance in the media market. Well, a person who belongs to European media organisations and regulators and broadcasters should know that there are European regulations which oblige them to uphold internal pluralism in the media, especially in public media. And President Kołodziejski, for another term of office, is unable to understand this simple truth. [[Applause]] And he says that public television is just equivalent to commercial television. Not at all, Mr. Chairman. I told you: how can you live with the so-called. journalists are destroying people, how you can look at yourself in the mirror, knowing that the activities of public television have led to death, to political murder. [[Applause]] How can you look at yourself in the mirror? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yeah, how can you? And how can you act like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u52	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jacek Protasiewicz. You're welcome. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I have nothing to be ashamed of, sir. 1968 reminds me. Yes? And I can remind you, too. Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u53	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The report of the National Radio and Television Council for 2019 is much better, more reliable and more serious than what I mentioned earlier in the case of the National Media Council. However, e.g. It stated that most of the complaints that had been received and dealt with in the form of a warning concerning journalistic irregularities were specifically addressed by the public media. It was also stated very clearly that the National Media Council duplicates the powers of supervisory authorities of individual media law companies as well as of the National Radio and Television Council itself. For example, in paragraph 2.20 it is referred to that, still unenforced by an important legal requirement raised by the Radio and Television Board, it is the restoration of the national council on the basis of the judgment of the Constitutional Court of Justice with regard to the appointment and dismissal of members of public company bodies. So the speech is... There's a piece of truth there. But I keep reminding you that this constitutional institution upholds the right to information, and the Radio and Television Act says that it is about the right to information and publicity, which is characterised by impartiality, balance and independence. The National Council of Radiophony and Television, despite a decent report in 2019, did not fulfil two elections: to the European Parliament and the Polish Parliament. Therefore, also on behalf of the Coalition Poland club, I submit a draft amendment to the resolution saying that the Sejm does not accept [[♪ The bell ♪]] and this report. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u54	Thank you, sir. Here you go, Mrs Joanna Scheuring-Wielgus, the Left Club. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u55	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The National Radio and Television Council should uphold independence and impartiality. I tried to ask Mr. Kołodziejski. I asked him what he thought about the fact that the president of public television was meeting with the president of the ruling party at an election evening, that the president of public television was meeting at coffee in the Seym with the president of the governing party. I think it's slow in the Seym. Of course, I didn't get the answer because Mr. Kołodziejski also became, as a result, a law and justice officer. If you don't understand it all the time, close your eyes for a moment and imagine a situation like this that you're not in charge. Imagine the situation that the president of public television is someone from the ruling camp, but from another party. And then what would happen? It's already been done. You'd be standing at the media tables and doing conferences every now and then, talking about public television being political because the president is meeting with the president of the ruling party. Because she was. You're just hypocrites, hypocrites squared... Look in the mirror. Because you agree to have the president of government television meet with your president in public. With you, Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński. You're not allowed in the Seym? Aren't you just ashamed of it? Is that what you wanted? Mrs... You're not ashamed. It's all right with you that Kurski's the CEO, isn't it? Member, please do not argue with anyone but speak. Member, please do not address anyone. You're speaking. Censor! Please? Can you hear me? Mrs. Marshal! I will address the person who led to the demise of democracy in Poland, and this is Jarosław Kaczyński. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u56	Okay, Member, great. Mr Krzysztof Bosak, near the Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister! Your presidential candidate won the presidential election, but when it comes to young voters, he wasn't even in the top three. Our president. One of the reasons is that through the message you are making, you lose any authority among people who think critically and confront what is shown in government media, with what appears on the Internet. In the short term, you are gaining on this politically. You won the election season. Now three years will be quieter. I would like to appeal: Consider whether, in the long term, the views you are exploiting will not make you lose, because unfortunately this is the way it goes. I urge you to stop censoring information at least. I mean the choice of guests and bans on specific individuals. Watch out, 'cause Janusz is listening. The point is to present information in government-dependent media in this proportion that corresponds to the activities of various political forces, i.e. if any force does a lot, organizes a lot of press conferences, presents numerous projects, then simply to report it. I also call for the offer of public media, when it comes to talking about economics, international issues, to be higher than the offer of commercial media. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u58	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the second reading, amendments were tabled to the draft resolution tabled, I propose that the Sejm proceed to the vote on this draft proposal after giving the Members a statement of the amendments tabled. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. Objection! We proceed with the vote on opposition. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of voting on the draft resolution after the statement of amendments has been served, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 243 for, 201 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm accepted the offer. We are returning to the examination of item 29 of the Rural Development Committee's report on the Government's draft law amending the Law on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Act on the national system of producer registers, the farm records and the records of payment applications. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 517. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 517 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 444 Members voted. 429 - for, 13 - against, 2 stopped. The Sejm adopted a law amending the Law on the Promotion of Rural Development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme for the years 2014 to 2020 and the Act on the National System of Producer Records, Farm Registers and the Register of Payment Applications. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the end of the vote. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 min 36 hours 12 min 48]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2019 (print No 402) together with the position of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights (print No 494). I would ask the chairman of the National Judicial Council of Leszek Mazur to present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u59	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present information on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2019. This information has been submitted in writing, with more than 120 pages. I think this allows me to limit my speech to a brief summary or summary of this most important information, statistical data. This is a report on 2019, that is, the year in which the National Judicial Council in its new composition worked for a full year, so this data is more valid in terms of presenting the results of the Council's work. In 2019 the legal basis for the Council's action was amended several times. These legislative changes have limited themselves to the issue of appeals in certain competitions, in particular in competitions concerning the Supreme Court, as well as the granting of additional powers to the Council relating to the control of the protection of personal data in the area of the judiciary. There are a few entities here that the National Council is to deal with. It is the Constitutional Tribunal, the Court of State, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, appeals courts and military courts. On the other hand, with regard to figures on the effects of the work of the National Council, this summary is contained on page 31. The Council held 18 meetings, working at these meetings for 17 days, i.e. 11 days more than in 2018. The main effect of this, because it is the main areas of work of the national council, was that she presented 384 candidates to the President of the Republic of Poland to appoint a judge. In addition, it gave an opinion on 105 draft normative acts, in two cases requested disciplinary action by the disciplinary officer of ordinary courts, and in five cases appealed to the Supreme Court against disciplinary decisions, lower courts. This information I would like to emphasise, because the area of disciplinary activity is a point of greater interest to the public and is sometimes accused of being an institution that is part of a system of repression against judges. These two information on the two disciplinary proceedings initiated and the five appeals indicate that this activity is very moderate. I would like to draw your attention to Table 2 on page 33. This includes, among others, a position indicating the so-called withdrawal of applications in competitions. This figure is 227, which is about 15 and 20%. the total number of notifications. These data indicate that there is no boycott of the activities of the national board, as these withdrawals by candidates have a purely technical dimension and involve the conclusion of the competition. At the end of one competition, the application is withdrawn as this withdrawal allows for the transition or re-submission to the next competition. It is also worth noticing the number 209 concerning appeals against the so-called. the range of operations. This is a new board competence. The number of cases in this area is increasing. Professional analysis of candidates who submit to a competition run by the National Council indicates that around 12% out of them, they're people from outside the judicial community. In 2019 it was 17 lawyers, 9 prosecutors, 16 lawyers and 6 other people. This number has stabilised and indicates greater openness than before, which is relevant in relation to certain allegations against the judge's environment, according to which this environment is caste or corporate. The President's Office has been notified of 384 candidates. Last year, the president appointed 316 people. The National Council also dealt with so-called competitions. Asessoric because he has the right to object to the appointment of an asessor who is appointed by the President. In one case, she made a reservation (the bell) which shows a high level of training at the National Judicial School and the Public Prosecutor's Office. As I understand it, the time for my speech has come to an end, and I will therefore, in compliance with this time discipline, end with the presentation of figures which are included in the written report, and I will look forward to any comments or questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u60	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr President. Now I ask Mr Kazimierz Smolinski to present his position to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2019. This is print number 494, and the board's information is included in print number 402. After consulting the Sejm Bureau, Marshal of the Sejm sent this information to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on 2 June 2020. The Commission took note of the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2019 and held a discussion at its meeting on 20 July 2020. I would like to point out here that, unfortunately, in the debate, Members of the opposition have focused on the legal basis of the Council's functioning. The vice-president of the committee basically gave a one-man judgment to her own tribunal that the Council acted in an unconstitutional way... Yes. ...and her, so to speak, functioning has no legal basis. It is a pity that this information, which you have just presented, has not been focused on. The information is very extensive, exhausting. The whole competence of the Council has been presented in this report. And as I said, the committee took note of this report. None were brought in, i.e. there was no vote, because reading the information did not require conclusion, determination of the position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u62	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Marek Ast, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u63	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on information from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2019 and print 402. The National Judicial Council is a constitutional body, it protects the independence of the judiciary and the independence of the courts. Unfortunately, it must be said that for more than a year the opposition has questioned the constitutionality of the action of the National Judicial Council, its basis. European Commission, UN. Mrs... I abstract from the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal - I think it is worth mentioning - which has decided on the compatibility with the Constitution of the Article. 9a the Act on the National Judicial Council on the election of members of judges of the National Judicial Council. The statement of reasons for that judgment also refers to the position expressed by the Constitutional Tribunal as early as 2017 and stresses that the Constitution shows who can be elected as a member of the National Court of Justice and does not specify how the judges of the National Court Board are to be elected. These issues have been referred to the law. The Court found that there was nothing to prevent judges from being elected to the National Courts of Justice, but it cannot be accepted that an active electoral law must only be held by the judges. So for the short term, this issue is doomed. The National Judicial Council is working very intensively, as has been shown in this broad information presented by the President of the National Judicial Council. This is also evidenced by these data, for example the fact that 1340 applications for office in judges are recognized, the adoption of 880 resolutions in individual cases in 2019, the presentation, the presentation of applications to the President of the Republic of Poland for the appointment of 384 persons to serve as a judge in courts of various types and levels or as a judicial assessor in voivodship administrative courts. The number of meetings was impressive. 297 meetings in 2019, of course, we are talking here about the meetings of the teams appointed to deal with individual cases, whether they are competitions or others related to the functioning of the National Judicial Council. This shows, first of all, that, indeed, as the rapporteur said, no boycott of the National Judicial Council can be spoken of. Mr President also spoke about this. The judges take part in competitions at all levels. Without such intensive operation of the National Judicial Council, these promotions would not be possible, dozens of applications for appointment as an assessor could not be considered. In a word, the Constitutional Authority, which is the National Judicial Council, acts in the Constitution and Constitution and the Law. At the same time, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice recognises these positive aspects of the action of the National Judicial Council in 2019 and takes note of this information with such satisfaction. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u64	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u65	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The ruling on the legality of the National Judicial Council by the social discovery in the pseudo-Constitution Tribunal does not really prove anything, sir, especially when we compare this with the ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the resolution of the joined chambers of the Supreme Court, the opinions of the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe and many, many institutions. When we hear in recent days about the violation of the rule of law standards by the current authority, it is precisely about the activities of the National Judicial Council. Among other things, the activities of the institution we are talking about today can first be the cause of the loss of billions of European funds and then the removal of Poland from the European Union. I would like to ask the Chairman of the National Judicial Council: Do you realize that the continuation contributes to pushing Poland to the margins of the Union, that in the end this continuation and the activities of the National Judicial Council can become one of the reasons for polexit? In order to justify the activities of the National Court of Justice, at the committee meeting, you hid yourself from the laws adopted by the PiS. But do you not mind that although the neo-KRS is in line with the PiS laws, it is contrary to the Polish constitution and, above all, with the Polish reason of the state, which is the strongest presence of Poland in the European Union? Meanwhile, this violation of the rule of law, including the activities of the National Judicial Council, is pushing our country to the EU margin. Is that really okay with you? High Izbo! This report, which we are debating today, is not a report on the activities of the National Judicial Council. This is a report on the colonization of the courts by the people of the present power. This is how the whole democratic Europe sees it, how responsible citizens in Poland see it. We are talking about a KRS, which was once created to defend the independence of the courts from politicians, and for the past two years we have been dealing with an institution that is either silent or supports the current authorities in the politicisation of justice. The current KRS really has nothing to do with this independence of justice. High Izbo! Only a few days ago at the Brussels Summit, it was decided that the payment of funds from the new budget of the European Union would depend on compliance with the rule of law. Already today, we see the panicky fear that PiS politicians are afraid of. We can already see how different the conclusions of the PiS Summit on the one hand and of the European Union's politicians are. Only the most naive politicians could think that the European Union would allow Kaczynski or Orban to block the requirement to respect the rule of law when paying EU funds. Only the most naive politicians could think that what the KRS was doing would go without an echo. Every day of the current KRS set up against the Polish Constitution, contrary to EU principles and democratic standards, brings us closer to the financial and legal divide. After all, a month ago, the board of the European Judicial Council Network decided to expel neo-KRS from the association's structures. And this is the shortest summary of the activities of the current political National Judicial Council. High Izbo! Even assuming in theory that the current KRS has the right to carry out its activities, it would really be necessary to break hands over it. Only this week did we learn that the political persecutions carried out under the pretext of disciplinary proceedings included 14 more judges. Where was the KRS present, when further harassments, persecutions, hidden just under the pretext of disciplinary proceedings, touched the judges of Tulaja, Yuszczyszyn, Markiewicz and many, many other brave judges in Poland? Today, the PiS state is increasingly persecuting judges so hard to fight for the independence of the Polish justice system, and the KRS is increasingly silent. It's really like an ambulance doctor who brings the wounded out of some kind of bombing, said he's going to bed right now. This is the behaviour of the current KRS today. A politicized KRS every day fails the exam with its responsibilities, with responsibility for the state. Therefore, at the end of the day, I can only recommend the words of Professor Władysław Bartoszewski to the people of PiS sitting in the KRS, flowing in apanas and luxuries resulting from cooperation with the authorities: It is worth being honest, although it is not always worth it. It pays to be dishonest, but it's not worth it. It's not worth it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u66	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u67	Dear Marshal! The High Izbo is, unfortunately, very few today, with such an important item on the agenda! Apparently, flower folding is more important, but luckily for us... We don't. Do we still have Mr. KRS president? You're here. I'm very happy because I have someone to turn to. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Aren't you really worried about what's going on at the National Judicial Council and how we're being judged? 16 years ago, the National Judicial Council, the Polish National Judicial Council, not the neo-KRS, only the National Judicial Council, co-founded the European Judicial Council Network. Today, the board of this institution wants the exclusion of the National Judicial Council. The vote has been postponed because of the pandemic, but it will finally take place. I hear you're not at all convinced that this is a problem, and you're even considering that the National Judicial Council should step out of this body on its own. The National Judicial Council has been appointed to uphold the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges, but forgets that, because even on the KRS website there is no mention of this. The National Judicial Council is used by the Law and Justice to tap the destruction of the Polish judiciary and to sequester the insubordinate judges. Nor do I see any reactions that should be unambiguous in relation to such words and entries that appear on the part of the representatives of the National Courts Council. I'm talking about Judge Jarosław Dudzicz here, about anti-Semitic entries, about the whole hater thing, about KastaWatch. Nothing, no consequences at all. Mr Mazur doesn't see the problem. On the other hand, the Left - and I think the whole opposition - sees this problem. It is a scandal that the National Judicial Council violated the obligation to protect judges who protested the attack on the independence of the judiciary, that it did not oppose attacks on judges who referred questions to the Court of Justice of the European Union, are upholding EU rights, for example. It's about Judge Juszczyszyn. Mr Leszek Mazur does not see at all, as I say, the problems of how we are perceived in the world, with the fact that the National Judicial Council, the neo-KRS, is being criticised for this universally. I think we as a country lose our good name, lose our prestige. It is caused, even to a large extent, among others. the activities of the whole neo-KRS. That is why this report cannot be positive, because there is no mention of the things I have just said in it. This is therefore a report only and exclusively from what the National Court Council wants to commend, but it does not refer to the dark sides of its activity and to the dark sides of its members' activities, who, instead of apologizing, rather than having to bear disciplinary consequences, are very satisfied with themselves simply further represent the National Court Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u68	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Polish People's Party - Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u69	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity that so few people are participating in this debate! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Once again, we are dealing with information about the activities of the National Judicial Council and once again this is a rather sad moment, because the High House comes to evaluate the year of action of a very important constitutional body, but functioning unfortunately without full legitimacy, without a fully legal status. It is all the more sad that this is another year wasted by this body, so that it may attempt at least part of itself - because I guess it cannot be done entirely - to legitimise the shortcomings that your functioning is affected by the United Right plan, the sejm majority plan, which is effectively implemented by you - unfortunately, I regret - whether it was implemented for another year. Regarding the allegations of the Polish Coalition against the functioning of the National Council of Courts in 2019... This is another year when the number of opinions of the National Judicial Council on draft normative acts adopted in a given year falls on a regular basis. It is worth recalling that in 2017, i.e. the last full year of the previous KRS, such opinions were issued almost 140. In 2018, i.e. the year in which the previous KRS completed its activities and started a new one, there were only 119 opinions. In the year to which today's debate is concerned, it was only 105 opinions. So you can see that there has been a huge drop in the projects assessed by the National Courts. What I wanted to emphasize today and what we would like to stress as a club of the Polish Coalition, because these are very important matters - in the past year a law was passed, which increased about 40 court fees in civil matters. This involved an increase in fees both in the civil process and in non-trial proceedings. For example, for the application for the establishment of a perpetual book - an increase in the fee by 67%, for the claim for the acquisition of the inheritance - an increase by 100% , for appeal - an increase of 150% , for complaint - an increase of 150% , for a cassation complaint - also an increase of 150%. Unfortunately, the National Judicial Council has not even been concerned about this revision of the Civil Procedure Code and the Law on Judicial Costs in Civil Matters, although it could, moreover, present its own position on this matter. That also raises our serious doubts. (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Finally, I would like to draw attention to an equally appalling case that concerns the National Judicial Council. Unfortunately, it is about tolerating extremely questionable judicial promotions. These are promotions, which today clearly show collations with the most important policies of the ruling environment, promotions that often fail to meet the condition of a proper, required practice time in a particular level of court. Here, too, we would really expect, in carrying out the control role of the Polish Sejm, that you would explain yourself today from such promotions, about which the media reported and discussed. Finally, I would like to join those proposals which were made by my previous speakers to the President, and I would like to ask: Why do you keep silent about such scandalous cases of behaviour, the statements of your closest colleagues, the members of the KRS? It's really calling for revenge in heaven. This does not bring glory to Poland and Poles in Europe and in the world, that the representatives of such an important body are the authors of such statements. Finally, your last sentence, Marshal, if I may. The Polish Coalition Club also sees no grounds to positively assess the past year's work of the National Council of Courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u70	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I listened to the highly venerable Member of Gasiuk-Pihowicz, I remembered the statement of a representative of Kazakhstan who said that the state of Kazakhstan is right to be a member of the Soviet Union. We are in favour of Poland's independence and do not think that it is necessary to be in the European Union. This is not the state of our country. All the more so because if such beautiful words are uttered that the Union wants to impose the rule of law on us, the rule of law means non-compliance with the law, only the declaration of certain moral values, which are not necessarily in line with values professed in Poland. So let us distinguish between what the word "rule of law" means in that issue. And that's what we understand here are the reservations on the left side, the PiS, the truth that was taking the floor in this case. The Confederation is therefore the only right-wing party that respects the law. We are terrified to hear that judges are to do the will of a nation or people working cities, villages, settlements, etc. Judges are told not to look at what the government thinks and what the majority thinks. The judges are supposed to serve justice. It's not popular today. Some would want judges to serve the Civic Platform, others to serve the PiS. There's no political force outside the Confederation that wants judges to be independent because judges have to be independent. I would like to point out that any caste can be born. To make the caste... There's nothing wrong with being a caste. We would like judges to be caste, but this caste, as its name suggests, caste, or purity, must remove from its ranks people who do not belong to it. If this elite does not remove those who are unfit to be in this elite, it will surely lose social respect and cease to be regarded as a group that should rule. Surely there were very clear signs that there were people among the judicial caste who should not be in it, and the caste did not cleanse itself of them. This does not mean that it would be better if the people who are there, depending on the different arrangements and arrangements, were replaced by people who would follow the orders of the ruling party. This is even more dangerous for justice. Because if we've got judges involved in different sets, that's it. much less dangerous than the fact that judges depend on political power. If I hear statements that also in some countries of the Union, specifically in the Netherlands, because it is the only country of this type, the judiciary depends on political power, I would like to say that this is the worst country in terms of justice. There are expropriations of people without compensation, there is no prosecution of pedophilia, no prosecution of crimes of people involved in power. The Netherlands is a very bad example of judicial authority and I say this to the PiS, who uses this example. That is why I say again: we would like judges to serve the law and the law of independent Poland, but not to serve the current power. This is a very difficult task. There must be reform of the courts, but this reform must not be allowed to be done by the PiS, because the PiS will, of course, replace the caste of independent judges or dependent judges on the caste of each other. And that's why the Confederation hasn't supported the PiS actions they've been playing in the judicial camera since the beginning. We hereby call on the judicial community to look at itself and to take such an internal strong decision that it will respect a clear law, because the law, I ask you, justice is the backbone of the power and sustainability of the Republic of Poland. On the other hand, if people lose faith in the judiciary and lose faith, it will be very bad. And what I'm trying to say is that one of PiS's worst crimes is that in order to get rid of those unfavorable judges, they challenged the authority of all the judges. Because of course there are judges who steal, there are judges who do different bad things, but if you keep saying on the radio, press and television that judges steal, etc., then you question the authority of all judges. And this is the biggest crime that PiS has committed in the sense of justice in Poland. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u72	Thank you very much, sir. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. And as the first Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, the Civic Coalition. One minute. There is no Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. No, I don't. No? Good. Mr Artur Łącki. There isn't. Mr Rafał Grupiński. Iwona Sledzińska-Katarasińska. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left. Well, I am. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u73	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Mr. President! The National Judicial Council is one of those institutions that were created as institutions independent of power and were completely taken over by the PiS and are under the political control of the governing party. I don't have a lot of time, so I'm just gonna go right to the question. Namely, there is much in the report about international activity, but the objectives of this international activity are really coming down, Mr President, only to exchange information, and with the European Judicial Council Network you are supposed to continue to dialogue. I would like to know what this dialogue is all about and what its consequences are. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would also like to ask you about the part of the international activity in which you switch to bilateral contacts. It's about contacts with Bulgaria, with Romania. It is also good news that relations with Mongolia have been renewed. I would like to know what this bilateral activity of the National Judicial Council concerns. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u74	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u75	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, it is difficult to have a different opinion that the National Council of Courts is in fact the faculty of the current authority. Even today's debate shows this. Both the highly respected Mr Smolinski and the highly respected Mr Smolinski Ast is a member of the National Judicial Council. In the meantime, one was the rapporteur of the committee and the other praised the National Courts during the speech of the Club Law and Justice. They both made sure that there was no word in the courtroom against the line of the ruling party. Absolute facade and some horrible standards. Besides, none of the highly respected Members was a member of any committee, either permanent or problematic. That's the question: Why did Law and Justice send them there? There's a committee on the reform of justice. A composition full of the nominates of Law and Justice. The report says she didn't do anything. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would like to ask: Has this committee not actually met once, and if so, because it is not included in the report, what were the results of this work? And such a question at the end: Who is Krzysztof Smolinski mentioned on p. 22? It seems to me, however, that this is about the highly respected Mr Kazimierz Smolinski, and the KRS has not even read exactly this report which has been sent to Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u76	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u77	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to speak not as a member of any judicial authority, but as a family doctor. And I will say that I am shocked by the behaviour of courts in Poland. This applies to the care of children during divorce and the granting of a child as an object of one or another, the punishment of parents, as well as the giving of violence to parents. You, I look at the Member, said self-cleaning. This is an absolute utopia, because I know this problem from the lining. Of course, there should be apoliticality, but politicians have to supervise the courts, because independent courts tell me that I have no right to ask questions as an MEP on the matter. So that's what court action is all about. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Question to the President of the National Council: Does the national council see this serious problem that judges are very often simply alien to our society because there was no decommunization because they could not cleanse themselves of bad people? Thank you. Peterovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u78	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Zofia Czernow, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! We all know that in common courts there are many vacancies in judicial positions, which has a major impact on the length of proceedings. Why, then, did the National Judicial Council submit proposals to the President for the appointment of judges of only 384 candidates and, in the face of more than 700, have not decided to submit such proposals? That's one thing. And secondly, why didn't the National Judicial Council exercise its constitutional competence to refer to the Constitutional Tribunal last year when the legislation constitutes a threat to the independence of courts and the independence of judges? Please answer these two questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u80	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Chairman... If I could just have a minute? But you dropped the question. What? Would you like to join the question? I crossed myself out of the question, but after you said it, I wanted to say two words. Corrigendum. But you weren't... You can ask a question, otherwise you can't. You can't argue with your messenger. Good. It's not with your messenger. You can ask a question, or you can refer to a statement. Ad vocem you wanted.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u81	I wanted to give a certain example of court action. It happened - when Poland had not yet entered the European Union, it was only in the European Community - that your judge said at a seminar at the university that judges would judge in accordance with European Community directives, even if it was contrary to the Polish constitution. Because the independence of the judiciary does not reach so far, because in due time, for the best law-abiding judges, such a judge would land in the Tower or be cut off for such a statement that she would not respect the Polish constitution or Polish regulations. However, it is certainly not that all judges are as you say. Not all of them. It's not like that. In my opinion, about a third of the judges might need to be replaced. The powers of judges cannot be constantly undermined. It is impossible to convince people that judges are angry that such are judges (the bell), because it is taken by people unfortunately as a fight against the system of justice. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u82	There you go. Thank you very much. I ask the President of the National Judicial Council of Mr Leszek Mazur to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u83	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I answer questions. I hope that in chronological order, but at first maybe two more general remarks. I am presenting this report, this information for the third time. I introduced her for the first time in 2018. This was information about the action of the National Judicial Council in 2017, i.e. the previous national council. It wasn't good then either. There were also very critical voices during the discussion, but not about the content of this report, which concerned the previous Council, but about the concept and the newly created Council, and in general the whole political, legal, systemic concept behind it. On the other hand, this most general comparison must take account of the fact that the National Judicial Council has existed since 1990. This year, February, we celebrated our 30th anniversary. So the new board's been running for two years. However, the reports I read in previous periods generally did not give rise to practically any criticisms or criticisms. Meanwhile, we have dealt with a system that actually existed completely outside any control. He existed outside of judicial control and even outside of social control, because there was no judicial review from 1990 until 2008, there was no possibility of appealing against the resolutions of the National Judicial Council to the Supreme Court. Moreover, there were no resolutions to present proposals to the President at all, which means that even if someone - a journalist or a citizen - was interested in this from a social or public point of view, he had no way of establishing the motives of the Council, making such decisions or other decisions, presenting such a candidacy and resigning from another candidacy. This did not arouse any emotion, although in this way the judicial system and the personnel movements that were carried out in it remained completely out of control. Now, too. There are no appeals. Tell me about the facts. Mrs. Member! If we are talking about facts, of course these appeals exist. A legislative amendment has been made to the article. 44, in which an appeal to the Supreme Court was excluded in competitions, which is in line with the practice in several countries. On the other hand, in general, the state that, so to speak, the application of the law in this area is not explained at all, because the Chamber of Extraordinary Control and Public Affairs of the Supreme Court of Appeals, which are addressed to it, in any case also recognizes in these competitions to the Supreme Court. On the other hand, with regard to the question of being obscured by the Council or by my laws - because such a wording has been made - I would like to remind you that the National Council of Judicial Affairs is an organ that operates on the basis of and within the law. Therefore, we do not obscure ourselves with laws, we apply laws, but we make sure that the boundaries of these laws do not exceed, and when applying this law do not go beyond... especially not to enter a political area, because these are not our competences. As regards international cooperation or the image of the judiciary or the Polish state, such a European one connected with the decisions of the NCJ, that is, this network of European judicial councils, I would like to correct Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz's statement, because no binding decisions have been taken. We were suspended in the rights of a member in September 2018. The Management Board, the general meeting of judicial networks, did not exclude the Polish National Council of the Judicial Tribunal from this network, but imposed a sanction to suspend participation in the work of this body. Therefore, these meetings and consultations that we are taking place - this seems to be the answer to the questions of another Member (the bell)... Corrigendum. ...these are strictly consultative actions. Corrigendum. You're welcome. However, it is true that a request for exclusion was made by the NCJ's board of directors to the general meeting. The decision was not taken at the appointed general meeting. At this meeting it was decided to elect another board of directors and from this new board of directors We received information that the issue of the Polish KRS will be the subject of debate, discussion and some decision, but only in the near future, perhaps in the autumn. As regards disciplinary proceedings and whether the National Court of Justice stands or does not stand up for the judges, which is his activity in the disciplinary area, let me remind you that in two cases we initiated disciplinary proceedings, in five cases we lodged appeals, in one case in favour of a person convicted or convicted by a disciplinary court of lower jurisdiction. When it comes to any interference or commenting on individual disciplinary proceedings, let me remind you that these proceedings are conducted by disciplinary spokespersons. They're affiliated to the national council in an organizational sense. We provide the conditions for their functioning, but we have no influence on their functioning beyond this procedural possibility... but only in a situation where proceedings are brought before a disciplinary court and we are dealing with a specific decision. On the other hand, we have no influence on the conduct of the ombudsman, and we cannot have that effect. I would like to remind you that there are probably two proceedings against me: one disciplinary, one explanatory. It doesn't arouse any tendency in me, I don't expect the KRS, which I am the chairman, to be interested in my disciplinary actions. On the contrary, I think that would be very inappropriate. Close to the end of your speech. Please? Just keep going, 'cause two minutes ago, it was your answer time. This may be so quickly on this point, why the Council does not take advantage of the possibility of submitting funds to the Constitutional Court. I'm just going to say that this is an extremely rare institution, in completely exceptional cases. Last year, the Council did not benefit from this, and in 2018 it benefited once. I'll be brief, too. In such a somewhat ironic tone we have been told about our international cooperation. Bulgaria, Romania and Mongolia were mentioned. Well, Bulgaria and I had no contacts in 2019, and Romania had in the sense that she had visited the President of the Romanian judicial council. On the other hand, this somewhat unfortunate Mongolia is an example of such cooperation, which was not practically relevant in 2019, but merely the continuation of the cooperation which it established and somehow formalised the previous national council. I recall that Judge Żurek took part in the signing of this memorandum or agreement, which would make it easier to identify, so to speak, that it was the previous council, not the present one. This was a memorandum, whether this cooperation, signed for several years, and the Mongolian side is calling for this cooperation to continue, while we are seriously considering it and are trying to give it a relatively limited framework.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u84	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm was informed about the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2019. Thank you very much. Corrigendum. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2019, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child (print No 318), together with the position of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and the Family (print No 498). I'm asking Mr. Nicholas Pawlak's child's attorney for information. I remind you, five minutes. Five minutes. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u85	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Well, let's be brief, then, since I have five minutes. The Ombudsman protects the rights of the child as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other laws, respecting the responsibility, rights and obligations of parents. These are the first provisions of the Act on the Prosecutor of the Rights of the Child. Above all, the Ombudsman protects rights, in particular the right to life, health, family education, decent social conditions and science. This is an open directory. Since December 14th, I have been doing this honorary job, so 2019 is the first year of my activities, which I am reporting to the High House. In 2019 I changed the Statute and Rules of Procedure of the Office of the Ombudsman. I have introduced new rules for dealing with matters: primarily in family matters, but also in matters of education, education and social affairs. The principle is that the Ombudsman's approach to individual cases is no longer the same as it was before, that two or three cases were joined on 60 and 80. Now the referee has to convince me not to move on. And that's causing a significant increase in the Ombudsman's activity. I am also personally active in proceedings before institutions, bodies, courts. It happens that I am personally court-martialed to express my position towards the child as regards the protection of his rights. The kid's trust phone had over 23,000. reports, of which almost 20,000. those were phones that were just about so-called. trust issues. Nearly 400 cases were initiated on the basis of this. Detailed information on the number of cases and their scope can be found in the written statement of reasons. I would like to inform the High House that the activities of the Ombudsman concern not only individual cases but also the promotion of the rights of the child. This promotion was based, among others. at the award of over 180 patrons. I also awarded 15 honor badges for the merits of protecting the rights of the child. As regards the information and comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, I would like to point out that in the area of social rights, social rights have been positively recognised by me by extending the 500+ programme to each child. This is a very important revision of the legislation that took place last year. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to what has not yet been left. done and what it must sound like in the High House. The first and fundamental human right - and this is the only such act, the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child - is the right to live from conception. In this respect, I see the inconsistencies of the rules, the incompatibility of the provisions of the Family Planning Act 1993 with the current constitution and the Act on the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. In this respect, both in the last term and in this, I am acting before the Constitutional Tribunal as amicus curiae in the context of the 1993 proposal for recognition of those provisions as non-constitutional. Further provisions that would be worth amending in the future concern criminal law, the introduction of amendments, so as to complement the Ombudsman's powers of participation in criminal matters. This is very important, for example, because of the events we talked about today, and yesterday, and two years ago, and a year ago, concerning crimes against children. What has happened today in this Chamber, in front of the High House, is the vow of the members of the paedophile committee. The person I have pointed out, one of the seven, has been elected by the High House by a large majority as chairman. I take it as an honor and thank you. I hope that this element of the Ombudsman's activity and the support of children harmed by these degenerates will be an important element of the Ombudsman's subsequent years of activity. [[Applause]] Further specific issues concerning the changes I have requested are included in the written report. Thank you very much to all my colleagues who supported me in 2019. Specialists, experts, day by day have done this hard work, have been familiar with these matters and have helped me do this, [[♪ The bell ♪]] To protect the children. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] None of it really came down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u86	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Joanna Borowiak to present her position to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u87	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2019 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child, print No 318. The information was addressed to the Joint Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. The joint committees took note of the submission at their meeting on 21 July. There's been a discussion. The Ombudsman, present at the committee meeting, answered the questions asked by Members. The joint committee's report is contained in print No 498. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u88	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circle. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u89	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2019 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. The information is provided in print No 318. The Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child, in the light of the provisions of the Act on the Ombudsman, upholds the rights of the child set out in the Constitution, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and other laws, respecting the responsibility, rights and obligations of the parents. In exercising its powers, it shall be guided by the welfare of the child and shall take into account that the natural environment of his or her development is his or her family. The Ombudsman acts to protect the rights of the child, to protect the child from violence, cruelty, exploitation, demoralisation, negligence and other mistreatment. Special care and assistance is provided by children with disabilities. It promotes the rights of the child and the methods of protecting them. Mr Mikołaj Pawlak has been serving the Ombudsman since 14 December 2018. Information about the Ombudsman's actions is a factually and substantively valuable document showing the many actions he has taken in all areas of his work, leaning down on the problems that children and young people face, an enormous commitment. The document consists of two parts. Part I is based on seven chapters, describes the tasks of the Ombudsman, the presentation of activities in family, criminal and minor matters, the activities of the child's trust centre, matters of education and education, social, social and administrative matters, matters with an international dimension and actions to promote and protect the rights of the child. Part II is a comment on the respect of children's rights in Poland in 2019. The Ombudsman's personal involvement in proceedings in matters relating to the protection of the interests of children and cooperation with the Ministry of Justice in this area should be stressed. For example, the number of legal appointments of the Ombudsman in 2019 is 242. Legal cases involving children requiring protection of their rights reported in 2019 concerned in particular: the right to family education, the right to life and health, the right to decent social conditions, the right to science and the right to protection against violence. The Ombudsman carried out around 2 000 children's rights in 2019. new cases and over 1,400 previous years cases. 1345 cases are over. An important aspect of the Ombudsman's activities in 2019 was the child's call for trust, allowing real-time intervention. In 2019 there were more than 23.5 thousand. applications, including more than 3.8 thousand. intervention cases and over 19.5 thousand so-called. trust issues. You will admit that these numbers are really impressive. The Ombudsman's activities in cases with an international dimension, which were reported in 2019 617, seem particularly important. In the area of comments on the respect of the rights of the child, it should be noted that 2019 was at the time of a significant impact of complaints and requests in individual cases. The main problems and comments concerning the respect of children's rights in Poland were drawn from them. The Ombudsman took a positive note of the extension of the rules on state financial support to families under the 500+ family programme to all children without income criteria. He also noted the positive impact of the programme on improving the financial condition of families and thus the right of children to decent living conditions. I would like to thank the Ombudsman for the multitude of actions aimed at the welfare of the child, as well as the multifaceted and multidimensional protection of the rights of the youngest. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It is important to note the substantive, substantive dimension and high quality of the document submitted to the High Sejm. What is in it is the essence of action. The point of view of the child. Everyone knew him once, but we got so far away from him that we find it difficult to return to him again - the motto he introduces into the content of the information. It is apparent from the reading of the document and the observation of the actions of the Ombudsman that the Ombudsman of the child's rights in this point of view does not lose sight of the child, and this is good for the further years of service for the youngest and in defence of their rights. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! The Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the information on the activities of the Ombudsman for 2019, together with comments on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u90	Thank you, Member. And please, Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u91	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, I have the honour to present my position on the report on the activities of the Ombudsperson of 2019. My speech will be based on the entire activity to date, or rather the lack of it, which, in the opinion of many, has compromised the office of the Ombudsman. You started your job with scandalous personal decisions. You have appointed Maria Urmanska as your replacement, who works in energy and construction. Moreover, at your special request, a presidential team was set up in the Ombudsman's office, headed by Mr Rafał Drzewiecki, former Director of the Communication and Promotion Office in the Ministry of Justice. It is worth mentioning here that earlier no organizational unit had such a wide competence, which only shows that the influence of Zbigniew Ziobra in this office is getting bigger. The best indication of your activity and activity for the first 100 days was that you did not address any general speech to the state authorities. I would like to point out here that spokesperson Marek Michalak made such speeches in his second term in the first 100 days 23. One of the first outrageous decisions of Paweł Pawlak's spokesperson was to remove the patronage of the honorary competition - a competition that taught tolerance and openness, which was co-organized by the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, and was taken over by the Ombudsman and the Polish Association of Janusz Korczak. [[Applause]] In addition, you have not granted honorary patronage to the next editions of the Parliament of children and young people, the initiative of young people who have been harmed by the PiS government and who have not been allowed to attend the session of the Children's and Youth Sejm in 2018. Your report began with an outrageous attack on LGBT individuals, while at the same time formulating theories that have no scientific basis, but arise only on the basis of the fundamentalist impulses of your Ombudsman. As a mother, I'm particularly shocked by your approach to child abuse. Well, you, as the alleged representative of the youngest, should be determined to oppose the use of all physical punishments. I therefore ask you how this applies to the provisions of international law, the Convention on Human Rights and, above all, the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We also know how you helped your children when they wanted advice, good words, or consolation in an absolutely anonymous way. You have deprived Polish children of the only independent nationwide phone line of trust. You kept your mouth shut when you took that opportunity away from the P.I.S. Polish children need a real-life ombudsman, they need a real defender, a real attorney. Unfortunately, we are dealing with a grim period at the Office of the Ombudsman. Instead of being governed by canon law, please follow the welfare of your children. That should be the role of a child's spokesperson. Unfortunately, today no Polish child can call you his spokesperson. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u92	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mateusz Bochenek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u93	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Polish children don't have their spokesperson today. How can they not? They do. We're giving Mr. Pawlak a red card, a red card for misdirecting his function... Are you a child, sir? On behalf of the children, do you speak? ...a government spokesperson with the role of a child's attorney. Ladies and gentlemen! Children need their spokesperson defending their rights, they need a spokesperson who will be their voice, they need a man who is not afraid of politicians. Meanwhile, Pavelak's spokesman in his work focuses so often on writing letters, on determining his wishes, because this de facto is the information that the High House has received. In fact, Mr. Spokesman, your role is different. Let us not forget that for a good cause, children can write letters to St. Santa Claus, and from the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, we expect rapid, decisive interventions, actions, initiatives. We need a quick investigation of a number of important matters. This is the role of a child's attorney. Children - victims of violence, so often we learn about their tragedies when they get hit by the hospital. Today, ladies and gentlemen, the question should be asked where was the spokesperson for the rights of the child when the government decided [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're giving the kids strength. Where were you then? Ladies and gentlemen! The Civic Coalition Club negatively assesses the information provided by the Ombudsman on the activities for 2019. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u94	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, the left-wing club.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! The 2019 report submitted by the Ombudsman on the rights of the child is incomplete, transitory and highly worrying in its content. We find it outrageous and unrelenting with a function to approve of violence against children. The Ombudsman has paid great attention to the promotion of the family and the protection of the conceived life and, at the same time, persistently ignores the existence of the problem of domestic violence and the danger to the life and health of children in relation to its existence. According to the police data, in 2019 more than 12 thousand. children were victims of violence in the family, and these are only cases registered under the Blue Card procedure, which the Ministry of Justice, with the effective involvement of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, is trying to dismantle. These figures are only the tip of the iceberg, because they concern only those cases that have been reported and registered. According to the Foundation's report published in 2019, we give children strength: analysis of the child protection system against harm, these registered cases are only 1% the actual number of minor victims, and this number is indeed 1,200 000. In medical literature, we will find that abuse is the most common cause of injuries to young children who go to the doctor and anticipates post-accident injuries. The media regularly report further victims of abuse of even a few months of children. All of Poland watches these children die and at that time the spokesman prefers to intervene on the safety of bathing sites. Only 309 out of over 12,000. Children's victims registered by the police were isolated from the perpetrators and placed in a safe place. 98% These victims remain in their homes with their oppressors, and many of them have not received judgment in their case. Experts, employees of public institutions, non-governmental workers alert that there are no procedures to avoid even the heaviest cases of violence, including those with fatal outcome, early capture and prevention of domestic violence. Mr Mikołaj Pawlak is not taking any action in this area. He did not try to protect children, victims of domestic violence, from further abuse by isolating them from perpetrators, shortening the time of proceedings, reducing parental rights, which would allow for faster adoption, support and promotion of the sharing of childcare in the case of divorced families. The lack of interest of the Ombudsman in the degree of implementation of the government's anti-violence programme in the family, which we have asked the Ministry about in numerous interviews and inquiries. However, the Ombudsman did not run out of time to fight the rights of LGBT people, to support the activities of anti-abortion organisations and to mark the awards of controversial activists of these organisations. Another important area where we consider the Ombudsman's actions to be insufficient is the situation of children in children's homes. According to the Ombudsman's own office, we find that at the moment more than 22% children residing in children's homes are children under the age of 7 who, according to the foster care law, should not be in those homes at all. The Ombudsman notes this fact in the report but does not take any action in this regard. Further worrying is the information contained in this document about 26% of children's homes who need psychiatric help. Nor does the Ombudsman take any initiative in this matter. Nor were reports of systematic child molestation in the Catholic Church deserved the Ombudsman's attention. Oh, Jesus. We find Mr Nicholas Pawlak's statements unacceptable and outrageous, which clearly show that he is not only an inappropriate person in the position of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, but he is directly interpreting his role to the detriment of the youngest citizens of the Republic. In the report submitted, we will find information that, according to the Ombudsman, the most important rights of the child are the right to life and health, the right to education in the family, decent social conditions and science, but there is no mention of the right to dignity, to personal integrity, to the freedom of conscience of the child as an individual, to freedom from both physical and mental violence, which is guaranteed by the Polish Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Children and Polish legislation initiated and ratified by Poland. With regard to activities concerning sexual education, which the Ombudsman has paid very much attention to, the Ombudsman expresses views contrary to the interests of children. There is a certain situation in which the Ombudsman of the rights of the child enters into a dispute with the Ombudsman of civil rights, fighting for the interpretation of the law to the detriment of children's rights vis-à-vis adult rights. It is so painful that Poland is a country particularly well deserved for the idea of children's rights. It was Poland that prepared and submitted the first draft of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to the UN. The Pole Louis Rajchman, a doctor, a scientist and a PPS activist, was the initiator of the UNICEF uprising and its first president. From this perspective, we consider Mr Nicholas Pawlak to be an insult to the dignity of the Ombudsman of the rights of the child (the bell), acting openly to the detriment of our youngest citizens. You've gone too far. Unfortunately, the law does not provide for the possibility to apply for rejection of this information, but I would like to inform you that the Left Club does not accept information from the Ombudsman. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u96	Thank you very much. Ms Agnieszka Chagaj has made her statement in writing. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Association of the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Yes, it's true: to protect the rights of a child, you have to guarantee first. it's the most important, it's the most fundamental right, the right to life, the right to the life of every conceived child. And it is a good thing that the Ombudsman of the rights of the child claims this right because eugenic solutions are not the rights of the child. There's no such thing as eugenic solutions. What you are proposing is eugenics, what you are pushing, which, even today in this House, you have tried once again to clean up, which is killing unborn children. And it must be said in the debate about the spokesperson for the rights of the child that you want to kill unborn children. Ladies and gentlemen! Second thing. I think that this debate also shows, also, the composition in this Chamber, how much the Platform, the Civic Coalition and the Left stereotypically perceive children, the family. There are almost exclusively women, ladies and gentlemen. You don't have women, you have a problem with that. Where are the women? Excuse me, sir. Almost exclusively women. Ladies and gentlemen! Men, fathers are responsible for children, yes, yes. Where are those men? Invite your fathers to debate the rights of the child. Stop this stereotypical perception that a child is nothing but a mother's business. Fortunately, we have both women and men. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Ombudsman's activities are concerned, in this context I draw attention to one area which, in my opinion, requires more attention from the Ombudsman, namely the care and care of the smallest children just born. It is not without reason that we have set up a team for perinatal care as members of the Confederation in Parliament. Yeah, we dads started this band. Yes, because we were at the birth of our children, because we are taking care of our children and we think there is a lot to be done here, a lot to be improved when it comes to perinatal care. In this respect, I believe that the Ombudsman should be interested in what is also happening in the first days of the child's life or at the time of childbirth, because it also comes into this competence. An important area and what Mr Mikołaj Pawlak needs to be congratulated on is the question of combating pedophilia. Yes, the fight against this grim phenomenon, with this disgusting phenomenon affecting many environments, not - as the Left wants - only some promila of the Catholic clergy, Catholic priests, but touching many environments, the fight against this problem of degrengolad and the fall of customs, with the departure from traditional values. It's related to that, too. I am very pleased that the nominate appointed by your spokesperson, Dr. Kmieciak, became the chairman of the committee because it is a problem that Poland has to deal with, because it is a problem that all the environments involved, including the Church, have to deal with, because unfortunately, the Catholic Church in Poland, having one generation, 30 years old, can be said to have a spare in relation to this moral revolution that has been taking place in the West since the 1960s, and which started with us in the 1990s, has not worked well this time. In my opinion, it is a pity that it did not succeed, also because Law and Justice rejected Isakowicz-Zaleski's candidacy three times, to introduce this figure into this committee as a very important man. It's a voice calling out in the desert on this subject. But I hope that with the help of your spokesperson, these paedophile crimes and this case will be cleared up and cut off on this committee. I urge you to continue with all the things that have started well in this term of office, in the first year of your Ombudsman's office, because the best guarantee that children's rights are protected so that children are not harmed is that they are raised in normal, healthy, traditional families, because this is the best protection for children's rights. I am very happy and thank you very much for your support for such families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u98	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Tadeusz Wozniak, Law and Justice. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u99	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child! There is no greater right of every human being than the right to live. I would like to remind you that Art. 2 of the Ombudsperson's Act clearly states that every human being is a child from conception to adulthood. So there is no greater right for a child than the right to live, and every attempt to assassinate a child is the most hideous attempt to murder a man. This is the result of the Polish law, and let no one claim that it is different, that it is some embryos, that it is some kind of cell cluster. You want to murder children by submitting further draft abortion laws, extending the possibility of abortion on request. Mr. Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child! Tell me what you're doing. [[♪ The bell ♪]] To protect the weakest innocent beings murdered in the wombs of their mothers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u100	Thank you, sir. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Bakerska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u101	Dear Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! Ladies and gentlemen! In June 2019, the spokesperson raised considerable controversy, saying, in particular, about the spanking. He said that basically this educational method was okay. I have a question for you. Have you changed your mind about this yet? And in this context I also wanted to ask you: will you take any action, what will you do if the government really wants to denounce the Istanbul Convention? Here's another thing. You give a lot of room in your report to your children who are conceived, and I have this question: Why didn't you support the initiative to abolish limits for the treatment of children? You explained in one of your interviews that the budget couldn't stand it, and you became a government spokesperson more than a child advocate. You have completely ignored the consequences of the education reform. The only thing you've focused on is condemning the striker teachers who fought for a better school. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why did the archive information about your predecessors disappear from the website? And one more question: Do you see the possibility that the phone that works at your office, the phone of trust, will run under hours. 16.15, but 24 hours a day? And one last question: If you talk so much about children conceived and their health, will you support the introduction of available, cheap prenatal research for women? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u102	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Your report is residual, filled with loose inserts, letters. It lacks conclusions, analyses, summaries and, most importantly, plans for systemic, real assistance in important areas of children's rights and the idea of promoting and education in the area of children's rights. But there's a lot of ideology, anti-and pseudoscience content, and above all, hatred for women. Oh, no, I'm sorry. There's a lot of medals. You're conducting a personal anti-abortion crusade, and you've been very focused on it, but you've been through a lot of issues and clear declarations. on important actions in the area, e.g. child psychiatry, which is in decline, or the need to protect young people in the LGBT community from social rejection, which leads to suffering, isolation and even suicide. You haven't said a word about it. There are no concrete ideas and declarations on pedophilia, because apart from the fact that you nominated for the first member of the pedophilia committee of a fundamentalist organization, you don't really have an idea of how to fight a pedophilia that may be up to 16,000. children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Stop focusing on the zygote and focus on the living children. And you kept saying, "I." I figured you had a big ego, but I checked and it turns out that when you took office, you hired 14 people in your office. What are your employees doing? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u104	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will refer briefly only to the question of harassment, which is most often said that it is in the church... Unfortunately, harassment is most common in families and in incomplete families. I'm saying this as a doctor. I know cases like this. I want the spokesperson to answer. One of the circles is, of course, church members, priests, but mostly it happens in pathological families, because it's either drunkenness or drug abuse, or a broken family. I want you to ask me a question. I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. But I have two questions for your spokesperson. I mean the teams that help the courts decide about child care, about the OZSS, which most often do not know children and their opinions absolutely flawed. Do you see the need for a change in this situation? RODK has been transformed into OZSS and there are most often people who do not know about children's problems, their psychology. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The children are passed on to either one parent or another without discerning their emotional needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u106	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris. There isn't. Mr Marek Rutka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u107	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! In the so-called. an open letter on the rights of the child, you pay great attention to the fight against imaginary ideology, not to the fight for the welfare of the child, which should be for you, as for all of us, the highest value. It is worth recalling that you were against the transcription of the Spanish birth certificate, and thus blocked the possibility of issuing a PESEL number in the case of the daughter of two Polish women from Spain. It was only after 15 months of fighting, six proceedings in four different offices. The daughter of two Poles from Spain finally obtained PESEL and identity card. Can you imagine what 15 months spent in a child's home or temporary home means to a child? Maybe it's worth focusing on real helping parents and children, not fighting imaginary ideology. A man is a man, not an ideology. It's worth remembering. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u108	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Agnieszka Górska, PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Dear Ombudsman, High Izbo! I listened to both the discussions at the meeting of the Education Committee and the discussions in the plenary room. I have the impression, with certainty, that individual Members of the opposition, in addition to their hatred of the Ombudsman himself, have not presented any arguments which would prove their negative position on the Ombudsman's activity in the past year. The lack of understanding of the subject matter, as well as the issues that the Ombudsman is dealing with, is visible to the naked eye. The emotions that accompany you confirm only the shoe, arrogance and poor quality manifestation of political views. And where in these thousands of words, in this stream of populism is the child - I ask you from the opposition - the main topic of the Ombudsman's information? Is the fact that a spokesman is a Catholic hurts so much that he openly says that only from a relationship between a man and a woman can life be born, a child, the future of the nation, that he expresses respect for all (the bell) regardless of opinions, sexual orientation and takes action for the good of the child? There is no time or place for at least your harmful and strange ideology, for hateful human policy. No arguments, just raising temperatures and accusations that don't have any grounds. This is what tolerance and equality you have painted on colorful flags look like on your side. On the other side is dominated by work, respect for everyone from conception to natural death and mercy for everyone. But the question is, what's the situation... Time. Close to the end, Member. ...children in hospital schools? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u110	Please, Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u111	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Disappointment - that's probably the best way to describe today's role as a child's spokesperson by Mr. Michalak. Pawlak. We gave you a chance, even though you weren't our dream spokesperson, but unfortunately you didn't take that chance. I'll remind you of your achievements, Mr. Marek Michalak. At the initiative of the previous Ombudsman, provisions were drawn up to amend the Penal Code which tightens the penalties for offences against children. Marek Michalak also requested the implementation of a national strategy against violence against children in Poland. What are you, Mr. Spokesman? Especially during the pandemic, you didn't do well, you just didn't do well. You haven't seen what happens to violence against children in families where violence exists. You didn't see what the representatives of all kinds of foundations were talking about, the fact that the number of children reporting through the phone to trust the various foundations (the bell) was increasing, asking for help. You didn't do well. You didn't do well with the adoption families. You're not interested in the subject at all. Lie! It's all in the intel. The last thing I want to say. Mr. Spokesman, are you going to ask for help from children who are very ill? It goes on for example. by a dozen children from SMA who need about PLN 10 million so that they can have effective therapy so that these children are healthy. Are you applying for help for such children? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u112	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u113	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For more than 20 years, since Poland has undertaken reforms of the foster care system for children, which for various reasons cannot be raised by biological parents... It's been 20 years, ladies and gentlemen. It was supposed to be about shutting down a nursing home called the child's most popular homes. What's going on at the time? During this time, the loss of foster families year after year, the loss of foster homes, and the creation of new facilities, precisely the homes of the child, which were to be liquidated. So I have specific questions. What did you do about changing the fate of these children? Have you taken steps to make concrete changes? I'm not talking about writing letters of intent, but for example, do you consider when an open adoption will be introduced, including adoptions with an indication? When will a long-term foster care be introduced, co-financed adoption (the bell), family therapy? When will the requirements for foster and adoptive parents be made more flexible, even considering partnerships? What exactly did you do for facilities during the COVID-19 pandemic? Thank you kindly and I'll ask for a written reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u114	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Beata Arrow, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u115	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ombudsman's task is to respond to situations of child rights violations, but, above all, in accordance with the Ombudsman's Act, he is taking steps to ensure that the child is fully and harmoniously developed, respecting his dignity. The Ombudsman's competences are wide and, as the information provided shows, have been fully exploited in various areas of life, including: as regards education, social, social and administrative conditions. For many years the situation of Polish families was bad, very bad. It used to be said that Polish families' poverty had the face of a sad child. My question to the Ombudsman: How do you judge the social and social situation of Polish children today? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u116	Thank you, Member. Ms Krystyna Shumilas, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u117	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I've read your report and I'm going to say it's crazy. This report looks as if it were written by an official who is afraid to make his own decisions and hide himself in letters and writings. This is not the report of the Ombudsman. In this report, I did not see the issue of the child at all and what a specific spokesperson wants to do or did for the child in 2019. Letters can be written, Mr. Spokesman. Mr. Spokesman, you can write letters, but you have to show a specific action. I didn't find any information about you helping the students in the double yearbook. I didn't see any information about what you did for the students of classes VII and VIII who, as a result of the deformity of education, were burdened with excessive material (the Bell) and were actually deprived of the life that a young man had because he and his parents had to spend time on books. I haven't seen any information about what you want or what you've done for rural students... Go ahead and finish it, Member. ...who as a result of deformities have been deprived of gymnasiums, study rooms, Internet studios. I'm not talking about this year, about the year of remote teaching, when the students disappeared from the system, and you weren't interested in those students at all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u118	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Paweł Krutul, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u119	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Mrs Wozniak, Mr Górski... Excuse me, Mrs Górska, Mr Wozniak. You keep talking about the rights of unborn children. What about children who are in the number of tens of thousands in children's homes? What you, as a ruling party, have done, what you have done to correct... Very much. I haven't finished my speech. I'm not done. A little personal culture. Proceed. Thank you very much. I ask you, why aren't you calling on the Members of the Law and Justice Department, the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, to see why they don't have the resources available to them? 500+... You didn't know you had to give the kids 500+. ...to accumulate and leave as an adult so that they can have these children to start? You didn't know you had to give the kids. What do you have to give? You didn't even know that 500+ kids had to be given. But please don't do polemics from the room. Please, ma'am. Do I belong to these people? I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. So that you can seek the welfare of children in children's homes, not just the care of unborn children. [[Applause]] Children.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u120	Thank you very much. I ask you to remain calm, ladies. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u121	Dear Marshal! High Seym! What a predictable opposition we have. You'll politicize even the Ombudsman's information. You politicize everything you can. But this should not be surprising, because already at the committee's meeting there was a statement from the opposition Members, note, I quote: Of course, we are assessing negative information. Well, you're judging negatively, because you've assumed it in advance, and you're showing here that you don't even know the contents of this information. Let's get to the point, Member. You're staying on Mr. Spokesman's list, and this, ladies and gentlemen, p. 6. The information is over 260 pages. Let's get to the point, Member, about the spokesperson. Mr. Spokesman! I would like to ask you: What superior goals have you set yourself as the one that protects the welfare of children, and what are your plans for the next years of child service? And don't really worry about the personal stuff. [[♪ The bell ♪]] by attacks by Members of the opposition against you. And one more thing for your opposition Members. I regret that today you spoke a lot about the spokesperson, but you didn't talk at all about caring for the welfare of the youngest. Thank you. [[Applause]] Get to the point. Thank you. The lady from the Left thinks she'll stop me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u122	Please, Mrs Iwona Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u123	Dear Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! I'll start with the questions. What resulted specifically from your letters to the Minister of Health on the exchange of speech processors for children and young people up to the age of 18? How many people, specifically, thanks to your actions have these speech processors been able to exchange? What actions have you taken to ensure that children requiring treatment are provided with auditory implants in time? Mr. Spokesman! For more than 2 years, the deaf and hearing impaired environment has been demanding undisturbed access to medical services such as exchange of speech processors and treatment with hearing implants. This problem concerns around 4 000. of which 70% 80% are children. The problem arose when the PiS government introduced the principle of exchange of speech processors and treatment with hearing implants as part of a lump sum hospital. Unfortunately, hospitals with such low budgets (the bell) and financial problems are unable to supply these devices to deaf people and with hearing loss. Let me give you a concrete example at the end. Voivodship Children's Hospital in Bydgoszcz: over 40 children are waiting for hearing implants. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u124	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u125	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! The report, the report or the information of your ombudsperson is one of the most bizarre information I've heard in the Sejm, and I've listened to a lot of strange reports. Mr. Spokesperson is unable to refrain from leading an ideological crusade, as you can see in the introduction to this report, where, for example, I will allow myself to quote one passage, discuss, argue with human rights internationally accepted and say: No wise man, even appearing in the most popular television stations, quoted by the largest Internet portals, will make me think differently. This is not the best recommendation for a spokesman (The Bell) who is unable to change his mind. But I have a question: Mr. Spokesman, what right do you claim to represent your parents when you object to sexual education? Don't you know that in Poland 80% Does society support school education? So what kind of parents do you represent? And don't you know that sexual education is the only instrument for preventing pedophilia and sexual abuse? Thank you very much. Now, Marshal, one sentence. It is not enough to support members of Ordo Iuris to advise against pedophilia to solve the problem of pedophilia. Sexual education is necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u126	Thank you. Please, Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u127	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! You haven't answered my question lately at the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, because, as you said, your computer just crashed. But this case is extremely important. It concerns a disabled boy named Nicodemus Lagod. So I repeat, when are you going to help this family? This is a boy who is notoriously beaten at school. Your mother has repeatedly asked you for help. Mother's name is Kamila, son of Nicodemus Lagod. They don't want to remain anonymous. I'd like a written reply. And I have a huge request for you on the right. Don't make us hate you. It's a strange feeling for me at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u128	Thank you, Member. Mr Zdzisław Wolski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u129	Mr. Spokesman! I wanted to ask you if you're interested in your children's fate after they break up the family. What kind of question is that? Often, after a divorce or already in the process, we are dealing with a common phenomenon of parental alienation in our country. One parent causes great emotional harm - it's about dramatic experiences, sometimes traumas for life - isolating another parent from a child, sometimes almost completely, presenting this parent in the worst possible light. Very often in Polish reality just one of the parents, at which the child is present, does not respect the court's orders. Any intervention by a desperate parent who has a difficult contact with a child is ineffective. Both the justice system (the Bell), the courts and the various institutions are very often completely helpless, and this is a huge drama of children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u131	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Every day, the Internet is flooded with calls from parents to support their children, asking for support for often very expensive operations, treatments or rehabilitation. It's a very common phenomenon. Parents often manage to raise the necessary resources for their children through public support, but this is not always the case. Parents and all those who support their children in this work deserve great praise, but this certainly should not be the case. Therefore, my question is: What is the Ombudsman's action to increase the financing of health care, to increase the financing of operations, treatments, rehabilitation of children, for whom these are the only measures? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u132	Thank you, sir. Mrs Magdalena Beyat, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u133	Ladies and gentlemen! You are accusing us that we have some charges against your spokesperson that he is a Catholic. Well, we're not interested in what you believe or what his confession is. Moreover, it should not be of interest to you either, because whatever you believe in, the Ombudsman should carry out his mission without charge and should take care of all children regardless of his religion, his political beliefs and the camp from which he originated. You also accuse us that we have not read the Ombudsman's information. I assure you, we have read it very, very carefully. And there's one thing that comes out of it. Mr. Spokesman hasn't worked very hard. I would like to ask you a question because Mrs Borowiak said that you answered all our questions. Unfortunately, not all of them. I asked a question that I didn't get the answers to, so I'm repeating it. Mr Spokesperson: Where is the 2018 report? Where is the information from the previous year's activities? It is your duty to inform us of the activities of the Ombudsman's Office, also for the previous term of office. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u134	Thank you very much. And please, Mrs Aleksandra Gajewska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u135	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! Disappointment is probably the gentlest word that describes emotions when you read information about your actions. Pedophilia is one of the most horrible crimes committed against children and your important task should be to act in the interests of the victims of such acts. In the meantime, what are we dealing with at the last session of the Sejm? The majority of the PiS appointed a political nominee on the committee. You have submitted to the president a person who is linked to the fundamental organization of Ordo Iuris, who said that you must stand a wall behind the archbishop. Jędraszewski. That contradicts the fact that this committee is going to work hard for the children. The fact that President Duda pardoned a paedophile is also extremely unfavorable from the perspective of social impact. That's a lie. What did you do then? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What did the shocked and frightened public say? You're not defending the rights of a child. You do in vitro, abortion, ideology. I'm gonna say it again and we're gonna talk about it out loud. You're not the protector of the rights of the child. Kids don't have their spokesperson today, and that's the biggest charge against you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u136	Thank you very much. Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u137	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! After choosing a child's attorney for office, when asked what he was going to do to fight the phenomenon of pedophilia in the Church, you replied, quote, "This abominable crime must be burned to whiteness with iron. And today, in your speech, you are bragging about the nomination of Blaze Kmieciak, elected by the right-wing vote as chairman of this committee, a man activist Ordo Iuris, a foundation who fights against women, their rights, an organization that fights sexual education and does not defend children. Bullshit! Lie! The man who tags himself in social media, defends paedophiles priests, tags himself: defending Jędraszewski, a wall behind Jędraszewski. That's attention. The rights of a child? Is that how you picture protecting children's rights? Is that something to be proud of? And fast. At the meeting of the Commission (the Social Policy Bell) you spoke about punishing pregnant women. I'd like you to clarify that. What kind of punishment do you mean? You referred to codification in other countries. Very good. What kind of codification, what countries, what punishments? What do we expect from this commitment? I'm asking because it doesn't come directly from the report. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u138	Thank you very much. Mrs Ewa Kołodziej, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u139	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are debating information about the activities of the child's rights in 2019, although the word 'activity' may mislead those listening to this debate. This was the year of your Ombudsman's passiveness on the most important issues. Hence my questions. What action have you taken, Mr Spokesperson, on the overlapping mental problems among children and young people? I would also like to ask for information on the number of cases of depression among children and adolescents in 2019 and on the number of psychiatric wards for children and adolescents. Does the Ombudsman maintain statistics on the number of suicides of children and young people since 14 December 2018, i.e. From the beginning of your term of office? What action have you taken, Mr. Spokesman, in cases of domestic violence where the victims were and are children? How exactly did you intervene in this matter, Mr. Spokesperson, in 2019? [[♪ The bell ♪]] How many interventions have you taken in 2019 to prevent discrimination between children and young people based on material status, faith, views, sexual orientation, sexual identity? And my last question: How many social campaigns did your office run in 2019? What were their problems and costs? Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u140	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u141	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the right we hear how bad we are, how bad we are, how bad we love no one... That's not true. ...that we mock the Church. Nobody said that. I'm a believer. I have often helped children who go to church. In hospitals as a volunteer, I made rooms for children, took care of children from different families. So don't talk about us as some evil monsters that... But no one's saying it. I didn't interrupt the ladies. I have a question for you, Mr. Spokesman. With regard to the number of children who are in children's homes, today it is about 17,000, these children are double wronged. They don't get 500+, they're left alone when they leave the orphanage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In my town, in Jelenia Góra, we're helping a little girl who got an apartment from the city today. We help set them up, prepare them for her to live in. Did you develop any program to help these kids get these apartments? Maybe from this famous apartment+ program? The only problem is, not a single apartment is created. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u142	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u143	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! I'm sure you know that. In 1991, the Council Poland has ratified the Convention on the Rights of the Child. This convention clearly says that spanking is beating, that's violence. In Poland, it was only in 2010, at the initiative of your predecessor, that the Family and Care Code could be amended so that the spanking is also regarded as a beating, as violence, and is finally punishable. Meanwhile, in 2019, and so in the year concerned by this information, you said that you had to distinguish between really spanking and beating, little that the spanking did not leave a big trace. [[Applause]] So today I ask: Do you, as in the case of the Istanbul Convention, perhaps also have ideas to denounce the Convention on the Rights of the Child? Do you think a spanking isn't a beating today? After all, what you said (the bell), this is actually a fundamental change going the other way, this is a change of some mentality. We're supposed to protect the kids today. You're out of it, so today, please clearly withdraw from those words and defend your children. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u144	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u145	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Information for 2019 is presented in a very unfortunate period for the Ombudsman, which is the pandemic of Coronavirus. This is a time when you can see perfectly the problems of thousands of children, the problems in which Mr. Nicholas Pawlak is silent. There are a lot of these things, and I'm just going to mention a few things: growing aggression towards children during isolation, not paying attention to the digital exclusion of students that prevent them from participating in remote lessons, practically stopping adoption processes during the pandemic. It's all happening now, but it's the result of the Ombudsman's negligence in previous years. Mr. Spokesman repeats over and over again that every human being is a child from conception to attainment of adulthood, while not seeing the real problems of children flogging around throughout this period. Maybe if you were kind enough to focus at least partially on what happens to children who have already been born, [[♪ The bell ♪]] That information would look much better. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u146	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Frydrych. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u147	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsman, The outbreak of the pandemic caused thousands of women to be deprived of the possibility of giving birth to their families. Women in perinatal and postpartum periods reported many irregularities to the Minister of Health. They also called for your help as an ombudsman because many of these irregularities concern children, especially newborns. Newborn babies, especially premature babies, and their parents, were in a dramatic situation. In many facilities due to the epidemic threat, parents are unable to communicate with their children for weeks at a time. The newborn is experiencing one of the greatest traumas of his life. Parents of newly born children also experience great stress, which affects their mental state. Scientific research has made it clear that contact between at least one parent and an premature child has a therapeutic value. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you know that? The exposure of the newborn to intense and constant stress during dynamic brain development and during its particular sensitivity is not affected by its development. Mr. Spokesman! Are you aware of the consequences of such activities and their effects on the health and development of thousands of children, including newborns and prematurely born children? What steps have you taken as a spokesman for children's rights in order to help children and their parents in this particular situation? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u148	Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u149	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! I have a question. Why did you clear the website of all the speeches, letters and publications of your predecessors? Afraid you'll be able to see that you're not doing anything, and your activity for the rights of the child is mediocre? You've worked very hard, you've changed your statute, and the rest of your work is about destroying what was good. This year, 2019, it was really hard for you. You forgot about the victims of violence, the phone call of trust, the wrong education reform. There's a lot more to be said. You're the spokesperson for the PiS, not the ones you're supposed to represent. I urge you, Mr. Advocate, to wake up and start working for the children's sake, not to do ideology. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if you don't have an idea, I suggest you read the reports of Mark Michalak's former spokesperson, and I guarantee you will learn a lot. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u150	Thank you, Member. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u151	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Ombudsperson of the Rights of the Child! Since the beginning of Mr. Nicholas Pawlak's term of office, we have learned much about his views, much more than we would like to know. The Ombudsman spoke about how much he did not understand education, which needed real reform. He ignored the need to fight the climate crisis, and the LGBT people dared to call it ideology. All these statements were full of contempt and intolerance. Young people are increasingly struggling with depression, and more and more people are suicidal and suicidal. And instead of professional care, they receive inhuman propaganda from the mouths of TVPiS and you. I can think of one question: How can you not be ashamed? Your duty is to protect all children. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the day of your child, your youth gave you a witness. There's not enough grades on it. My baby wasn't there. That's why you should resign immediately. Your child doesn't make a rule. Young people are waiting for their spokesperson, and another government spokesperson doesn't really need it. Thank you. [[Applause]] Bravo!
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u152	Thank you, sir. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u153	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Mr. Spokesman! I wanted to ask you again, because that's the kind of question I've had before about child psychiatric care. In the report I saw your letter to the Minister of Health, but there you raise this issue only to a small extent, because it focuses on the valuation of these medical benefits. I don't know if you know how serious the problem is, and last year, the psychiatric units for children were removed, there was no specialist counseling, there were no doctors. We all know that if a child doesn't get help at his age, he's gonna suffer his whole life. How can you put off such an important subject? That's why I'm asking you, and I'd like an answer when you take care of our children's psychiatric care. They really need it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u154	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u155	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman, you spoke during your speech about degenerates and here, of course, full agreement. But in addition to this environment of families, the other environment in which these crimes occur is the environment where the authority of the educator is combined with the authority of the faith. And I think if everyone comes out a little bit next to their bubble, they'll see how much using this dependency is just perfidious. But here's my question. During your activities in 2019, have you made any attempt to talk to the Church's environment, with the Church's authorities about explaining this matter and introducing child protection mechanisms? The second thing I want to ask you is the property situation of these people, victims of pedophilia crimes. [[♪ The bell ♪]] On the occasion of President Duda's pardon, the person who committed such a crime comes to us with information about the problems of the financial situation. There's the Justice Fund. Should the Ombudsman take any attempts in 2019, initiatives to contact the Ministry of Justice, which have this fund and instead of spending advertising money, support crime victims? And, Mrs. Marshal, last question: phone call, Monday - Friday, hours. 8.15 a.m. 20. A large group of these crimes, I suspect, is being done on weekends. Does the Ombudsman's office intend to extend the hours so that this line is actually open 24 hours a day? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u157	Private Mr Kaczyński! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Spokesman! You repeatedly emphasize that parents have the right to provide their children with education and teaching according to their beliefs, as our constitution says. So why do you ignore the growing signs of discrimination in schools of children and young people who are not baptized do not go to a religion whose parents do not only confess the right religion according to your religion? They're supposed to have the right to do that. And finally, why aren't you defending the children who were and are being used by paedophile priests? Why are you silent? Because you won't get absolution from your parish priest? In an open letter, you emphasized that you would not succumb to a destructive ideology, but that you were doing the opposite. In your work, you're mostly based on ideology, but basically Catholic. Shame. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Shame is elsewhere.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u158	Please, Mrs Monika Rosa, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u159	Dear Marshal! Mr. Spokesman! High Izbo! In your actions and reports, you place great emphasis on your own individual views and ideologies. By force you lead a crusade against e.g. sexual education, but you can't hear your voice when teenagers from the LGBT community are called ideology, not people. Do you notice the increase in suicide attempts, suicidal thoughts due to exclusion, lack of acceptance of the surroundings? I don't see your commitment to a systemic solution when it comes to abolishing the limits for treatment, rehabilitation, increasing the cost of health care so that desperate parents don't have to raise money themselves. For example, five-year-old Nathan from Sosnowiec, Mr.Torpeda, several other children in Poland with a neuroblastoma - to save their lives, parents conduct long-term, time-consuming, dramatic collections. Will you help them, Mr. Spokesman? I don't see your involvement in stopping the government from declaring an anti-violence convention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I can't hear your voice about the deformity of the education system, the horror of the double yearbook, the overload of the curricula, and now, during the epidemic, about the disappearance of students from the teaching system, the exclusion from remote learning. I can't hear your voice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u160	Thank you. And the last question is asked by Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u161	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! Another abused child died in Katowice. I dare presume it was an unwanted child. The Lord, leading a Catholic crusade against contraception, puts his hand on the child's unwanted birth in Poland. It's absurd. Are you able to tell the public that contraception is good and can protect families from unwanted babies being born? Secondly, the parents were arrested, but maybe they'll explain that after all, the child's attorney said that spanking or beating was okay. How many more such tragedies must happen in order for the spokesperson of the rights of the child or other professed Catholic religion to have the courage to say that violence and beating are wrong? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u162	Thank you. And I ask Mr. Nicholas Pawlak's child's attorney to take the floor and answer the questions. I also remind you that there are still five minutes to answer. I'm gonna extend you a little bit. Five minutes for everything? Yes, that's the rules of the Sejm. [[Joy in the Chamber]] That's the rules, ladies and gentlemen. Accepted by the votes of the PiS, Your Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u163	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Okay, 32 minutes for questions, 5 minutes for answers. So, so gently, concisely, maybe there'll be a small margin. I will not answer questions about a political dispute because the office is apolitical. Some of the questions were, uh, about the disagreements between the state, from what I've come up with. But let me give you some answers. About violence in general, because these questions were raised. Especially the last question summarizes them. A few weeks ago, you unanimously passed an anti-violence bill. Unanimously, all together. At the committee meeting, I recalled who wrote this bill in the last two years. I thank Minister Zbigniew Ziobra for this privilege of being able to participate in the preparation of this anti-violence law in the Ministry of Justice. I'm glad you accepted this bill unanimously and in agreement. Now I feel honored that my representatives train, among others. The police and specialists, how to apply this law. So much for violence and concrete action. For the first time in 2020, despite the 10 years of the previous term of office. No one has passed such a law so far, has not come up with the idea that such a thing can be suggested, put in place a concrete action so that such behaviours, like yesterday, do not occur. And was that an unwanted child? That's a very far-reaching charge, a motion. Exactly. I think it's even worse than telling these parents that they're criminals because a criminal can be called someone legally convicted. And that's what these kids have called it -- that's very sad. I saw the protocols from that procedure yesterday, and I know. And I'm gonna dream it, not you, like any other child killed or raped by degenerates. So these are general remarks about whether or not I'm acting against violence against children. Abstraction, aberration on your part, hypocrisy. It's a famous slap. I suggest you don't use the media stripes because there's so much colloquialism that TV is lying. Pants belt. Don't use this, use all your content. I'd like to read your lawyer's statement. I think it's very specific. And every lawyer that's been in the office, and for me, the child's attorney, he's been working for, like, a lot of years in this office, he knows that's what it's like. More specifically, there were a lot of questions. Let me answer some in writing, like child psychiatry. As for the specifics: there are 1 000. places in Poland, 37 branches, not including security units, insulation, etc. Relationships? Some have done great damage to psychiatry departments by publishing untested data this year, and now there is an action of delivery through me and with my participation to all psychiatry departments of child equipment, with one of commercial companies - 2 million PLN. [[Applause]] Each of the 37 branches sends me a very heartfelt and heartfelt thanks for finally having someone do it because no one has done it so far. But to make things right, for example, Joseph's department was equipped by the Great Orchestra of Christmas Help. Very good. Thank you very much. Questions were raised concerning, for example, the construction, evaluation of my report, information. Ladies and gentlemen, I already mentioned this at the committee meeting. There's a school in Warsaw that takes part in rewriting something. I was taught that content is important. And this content - the Ombudsman's personal actions - was taken into account. As for some of the situations that you are raising, I would like to hear specifics because I am involved in every case. In fact, every case that comes into the office has no right to go any other way than through me. Well, I'll have a specific one, then. Because in every case that affects the office, I'm sure I'm in a position to answer, which hasn't been common practice in the last 10 years. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! [[♪ The bell ♪]] Your marshal? Please... Yes? Thank you. So I'm reacting specifically to every case, and if that's the case where there was no reaction... Mrs Hartwich has set an example, it is checked and you will certainly get a specific written reply. As for politics, about the paedophile committee: I am one, if not the only spokesman in this Chamber who was working on this bill. The other spokesperson, apparently, didn't stand up, didn't take his stand, didn't criticize, didn't help with the bill. Moreover, it does not cooperate: according to its law, in accordance with Article. 1 The Ombudsman's Children's Law has an obligation to cooperate with me, not to take a stand contrary to my position, just because it is against me. Tell me about your work, not judge others. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in particular: the Ombudsman is active in every case every day. And this is a summary of the Ombudsman's activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] What about children who are chronically ill?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-07-24-sejm-15-3.u164	The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm has heard information about the activities of the Ombudsman for 2019 together with observations on the state of compliance with the rights of the child. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 15th meeting of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. This concludes the 15th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. Information about the impact of interpellations and queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda for the 16th session of the Sejm scheduled for 7 August 2020 will be delivered to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 15 min 01]]
