ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u1	Resume session. Senators, please take your seats. I also ask your senators to take their seats. I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. I would like to remind the senators in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 to sign up for questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it is Senator Ryszard Śvilski, in room 217, Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and in room 182, Senator Victor Durlak. Please also forward legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements to the Senators of the Secretaries. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please check whether all States in the sitting room and in rooms 217 and 182 have excluded applications for voting remotely. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. Let me remind you that you can subscribe to the questions and speak in the discussion through the chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. I would remind you that there is also a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of legislative proposals and the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphone yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application, or if one of you loses the call, please contact us by phone at the number previously given to you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering a test vote to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I would like to remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the meeting that the opening of the vote in the Webex system results in the announcement. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would also like to remind you of the need to press 2 buttons on the vote: in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. You're welcome, we're voting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you kindly for the results. 86 senators voted, which means we have a quorum. [[Voting No 28]] We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. I would remind you that yesterday, Senator rapporteur Kazimierz Klein presented the committee's report on the matter and answered the senators' questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister, a member of the Council of Ministers, Mr Łukasz Schreiber, was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Minister, this is a question for you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u2	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Of course, I am prepared to present them if you have the need. I presented my position at the committee meeting so that I would leave it to your decision. We're also prepared to respond. There's a large group of ministers with me from the right resorts, so I think we're ready to answer. For my part, I can only appeal to you, however, to be able to adopt this law as soon as possible. Please bear in mind that without this law from 10 May can not be paid e.g. care allowance for parents of children. Please bear in mind that it is in this bill, regardless of the fact that you may have other ideas for some of the records... Some of the entries in it are important for entrepreneurs, so their absence stops helping them. Please note that some of the records are important for local authorities, that without the support of the railways this situation... that the situation on the market of state carriers, but also private ones, is becoming increasingly difficult. So that I very much ask that you decide as soon as possible to vote on this law, although perhaps also to extend it to some amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u3	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the Minister, a representative of the Government, and other government representatives related to this item on the agenda. For the sake of order, I will read what ministers are present in order for you to know and possibly address questions to them. Of course, you are Minister Łukasz Schreiber, and there are ministers Jarosław Wenderlich and Paweł Szrot from the Prime Minister's office. You are Minister Stanisław Szwed of the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy. You are the President of Cesar Lessz and Vice President Mateusz Berger and Paweł Kolczyński from the Industrial Development Agency. You are Minister Wanda Buk of the Ministry of Digitalization. You are Minister Andrzej Gut-Mostowy of the Ministry of Development. You are Minister Janusz Kowalski of the Ministry of State Assets. These are Minister Magdalena Gawin and Minister Paweł Lewandowski from the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. You are Minister Anna Budzanowska and Minister Sebastian Skuz of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. You are Minister Piotr Patkowski of the Ministry of Finance. You are Minister Anna Dalkowska of the Ministry of Justice. You are Minister Rafał Weber of the Ministry of Infrastructure. You are Minister Małgorzata Golińska from the Ministry of Climate. Let's get to the questions. You're asking Senator Magdalena Lovers. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a whole set of questions for the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy, as well as the Minister of Education. Let me remind you that the question should last a minute. I'm gonna try, although it's gonna be hard for me to fit in a minute, because there are six questions. I have a question for Minister Swede about kindergartens and crèches and benefits that we pay to parents who take care of their children at the time of closure. Well, those parents whose institutions were closed only during the pandemic have no trouble getting benefits, while those parents who put their children in private, non-public kindergartens, at the time of their closure, likewise have a refusal to pay out from the Social Insurance Institution. My question is: why is it so and is it so? I will also ask for a written reply on this matter. The second question is whether the second set of questions concerns children from care institutions. The law on foster care in these three laws, which you call shields, has only one mention that says that the number of pupils in the institution may be higher, because we do not necessarily include young people in the state of this institution who, in the meantime, have reached maturity and could leave such an institution during the pandemic. I'm intrigued by a few things here. First of all, I have this question: what procedures did you foresee for educators, for staff, for people working with children in nursing institutions? And do you think that these procedures properly protect both children and staff, educators and those helping to raise and care for children? What procedures have you implemented in relation to the obligation to e-education in these institutions? Have you even implemented any assistance in this matter? Which legal basis causes that the pupils of youth educational centers... I agree, they are under the Ministry of National Education and that is why I am also asking the Minister of National Education. So, which legal basis allowed these children, or their families, to be sent to care institutions in connection with the closure of these centres without judicial decisions? How did you secure these children with tests? Have you examined their health? How do you help carers in caring and caring for groups of children who reach out to children with special educational needs? I will ask for an answer today, but regardless of that, I will also ask for a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u5	Thank you, Senator. It was a question addressed to Minister Stanislaw Swede. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In answer to the first question concerning the welfare allowance, I would like to point out that here the most important issue is the legal form of the parent or guardian, because the welfare allowance is granted to those persons who pay a contribution to the Social Insurance Fund or to the fund which is in the farm insurance register or because someone is insured when it comes to uniform services, and for this reason he is entitled to the possibility of paying an additional welfare allowance. So if there's a case that the senator said someone didn't get the benefit, it's a question to explain, to check. Maybe there was a situation that he was not employed and for this reason he was not entitled to a welfare allowance. As far as the second question is concerned, it's pretty broad. Here the decisions we made, whether in terms of daycare or care centers... The Ministry of National Education was also on the way here. Of course, all these activities were dictated by the actions of the Minister of Health and the Chief Health Inspector, who laid down the conditions under which the individual may operate. In general, these units were closed or admitted to them in limited cases, where necessary. In other situations, we did not allow visitors, we did not allow for situations that would endanger the safety of both pupils and educators. We'll give you a detailed answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u7	Thank you. Senator Paweł Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to address my question to Minister Schreiber. Minister, I would like to know what the government consultation was like during the development of this project. Why do I ask? The justification for the project contains a whole list of entities affected by the project. Meanwhile, we senators, and I assume that the Minister, too, are being accused of various kinds of positions, opinions, proposals for change, and there are dozens of them, if not a few hundred. This would indicate that these consultations either took place very quickly or were not at all there. That's why I would very much ask for information about what it actually looked like.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u9	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Indeed, the consultation was conducted in a very short time, because it was very urgent for this project to be adopted. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are in an emergency situation, and I am not going to hide that we are not able to carry out a wide consultation on all these matters every time, especially since we are taking due account of the fact that this is taking longer at this stage of the legislative work in the Senate. We were just trying to sort things out as soon as possible. But just like you. I said during my last visit to the Senate, there will be another law which is currently in the process of consulting, at their final stage, and which will expand the anti-crisis shield. So here we have a collection of important, necessary, urgent things. As I said, I understand that there are various kinds of proposals... In the overwhelming majority, these are regulations that meet the expectations of different environments, and in a smaller part, these are regulations that simply regulate important matters. All or almost all of them are directly related to the pandemic of Coronavirus, although maybe not in every case is visible at first glance. Yeah, but there's a reason for that, too. We also know perfectly well. The state is also aware of this. For various reasons, we are unable to bring 40 laws. Of course, from a purely legislative and legislative point of view, this would probably be a better solution, but in order to be able to be effective in lawmaking and respond to various kinds of challenges... Well, it's just impossible, so I'm asking you to understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u11	Thank you. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! First, I have a favor to ask your marshal. I'm reading this bill and I'm a little lost, so I'd like to start a little differently, i.e. I'm gonna ask you a question, and then I'm gonna put two questions to two different ministers. So first of all, asking me to understand... There you go. Minister, I'm getting a lot of voices... First, I want to verify it because I can't read it. I would like to ask about the Polish Football Association. Is he in this bill? Is there a record of it in this bill? Because in the end the Polish Football Association operates on public property, mostly, it is a federation of various clubs, i.e. legal entities. Did you in this act introduce PZPN into the regulation? Do you deal with the Polish Football Association? I'm asking because I think it interests a lot of people. So first, I'm gonna ask you an explanation for the question, and then I'm gonna ask you a question. But first, I'd like to get an answer to this...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u13	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u14	A brief answer to a specific question. Dear Senator, such a regulation, concerning not only the Polish Football Association, but in general sports unions, was in the previous law, which extended the shield and which is already adopted in relation to... These were records that met the expectations of sports unions, which shift their deadlines and give them the opportunity to function a little more calmly during this difficult period.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u15	Good. I'm gonna ask you a question now. As I understand it, you do not assassinate the money of the Polish Football Association or want to take over the money of other private organizations, with only one exception, i.e. except as provided for in Article. 5, which concerns the Polish Hunting Union. Let me remind you that the Polish Hunting Union is also a private organization, although some time ago you introduced, like Jaruzelski, a commissioner to this union, into the Polish Hunting Union. There have been 2 such cases in nearly 100 years of history, twice it has happened that the hunter's national does not choose delegates, members of this organization, only the minister, previously Jaruzelski, and now the minister of the environment. A small difference, of course, in principle, not in terms of names. I would like to ask: since when is this sacred property right, private property, because money collected both at the head board level and hunting circles, and each hunting wheel You don't need to know that in the High Senate. It has legal personality, it is a separate association... Since when in Poland is it allowed to have private money for individuals? The members of the circle are natural persons, consist of the functioning of the circle, covering losses resulting from damage caused by the game in the forest and in the fields. And here you introduce the principle that it will be the Management Board of the Polish Hunting Union that will have the money of the wheels that they have, I will remind you again. Legal personality. How is this different, Minister, from the mechanism that has already been introduced in Poland, in the period of the Polish People's Republic, even early Polish People's Republic, from taking over and taking away other people's property? What right do you have? Who lets you do that? What makes it clear that you can put the Commissioner in the PZŁ first and then say: and now this Commissioner from the PiS delegation will have 50 million of the budget at the disposal of the General Board of PZŁ, and I do not know what amounts are in hundreds of circles scattered all over Poland? That's the first question. Really nothing from communists is different in this case. You are taking someone's private property, just as you could take it from PZPN, from the philatelists' union and from any other private organization operating in Poland. And second question... Mr. Senator, you've crossed a lot, five times... I know, but... I'll write you down for the third question. It will be short, Lord... Well, well, well. It concerns art. Article 14 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 11 and basically just one record, because I don't want to worry about the whole election process of the UKE president, who has nothing to do with the coronavirus at all. But there's a record that states that the new president At all, the puriazum that it is in the law, not at the level of the regulation or even the lower legal act, has managerial powers. I'm sorry, who's gonna judge that? I'm thinking about it very much. There's no record of that in this bill. Will it be judged by the Żoliborz resident, Jarosław Kaczyński, or will it be judged by the president Jarosław Kaczyński, or will it finally be judged by Jarosław Kaczyński, the warden? I don't see any other solution in these records. I don't know why you put such records into a law that doesn't have any connection to the coronavirus, and you're still starting your speech from the fact that it's a very important law that concerns child care, helping entrepreneurs. Focus on this, and do not push out all kinds of gniths on such an important bill that is really about helping Poles in need.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u16	Thank you. Please respond so that the senator, by asking questions in a non-essential manner, does not offend parliamentarians. Mr. Senator, I didn't see any words here that would offend anyone. I'm surprised... Mr. Jarosław Kaczyński... If you have any comments, please report it to the Rules of Procedure Committee. You're welcome, Minister Schreiber.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! However, in my political environment, calling someone a communist is an insult, so I really think that there were words offensive and false to it. I will no longer make comparisons here, compare actions and the number of communists of all kinds in parties, because it would be unpleasant for the senator. I'll focus on the answers. First of all, I must strongly protest against the claim as if we were going to take anything from anyone. And second of all... about the art. 5, it will immediately be Minister Golińska, if you allow the marshal to give a wider answer, but please note that at the meeting of the Committee of Budgets, the Senators of Law and Justice, at the request of the Minister of the Environment, have tabled an amendment to this article which would give an optional solution to any circle. So any wheel could make that decision if it wanted to. This amendment has been voted negative by the majority of committee senators, so if you do the same, it will simply go to the Sejm in this form. If the Minister could complete this statement in detail...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will not comment on the senator's entire statement, because I guess she was more dedicated to those who can listen to us outside the room and who do not know the hunting law than to the senators, who certainly know the hunting law and know that many of the insinuations presented by your senator are untrue. As far as hunting law is concerned, it is important, first of all, that we are in the article. 35 read that the activity of the £ is financed: from own funds, from membership contributions, from entry fees, from registrations and donations, and from business activities carried out. As far as the assets of the wheel are concerned, it follows from §56 of the Statute of PZŁ, that the assets consist of: fixed assets, working assets, cash, receivables, income from the entry fee, from the membership contributions, from the hunting economy and from the economic or agricultural activities carried out. This business activity is an activity carried out on the assets of the State Treasury. And if we read in the Senate Print Act 106 the statement that during the period of existence in the territory of the Republic of Poland the state of danger or epidemic due to a virus that causes a specific disease income from the economic activity of PZŁ and hunting circles, so we are not talking about membership fees, we are not talking about any other means, we are only talking about income from the economic activity of PZŁ and hunting circles - it can be, i.e. it does not have to, intended for the purpose of combating the epidemic... This may be due to the letter sent by the Supreme Council of Hunters, indicating that it would like to engage in the fight against the coronavirus by purchasing vehicles that would serve as so-called. symazobuses. There is no possibility in hunting law to allocate funds for purposes other than statutory purposes, and it would not be possible, without trying any legal tricks, to transfer these funds. We have therefore proposed this provision. The second entry, which is important: the allocation of funds from this income, from income from economic activity, would be decided by the Management Board of the Polish Łowiecki Union. The amendment that Minister Schreiber was talking about was that in the case of a hunting circle with the agreement of this hunting circle. And it is important that, yes, in the competence of the Supreme Council of Łowiecka according to the statutes of the Polish Academy of Sciences, it is the adoption of the annual plan of business and the budget of the association, but it is up to the General Board of Łódź to manage the assets of the association. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u19	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask the senator, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u20	Mrs. Marshal, I did not hear the answer to the second question concerning the wording of the article. 14th point 11, which says that the president of UKE must... And in item 5 it is written: "He has managerial competence." I'd like to ask who's gonna judge that. I already asked if it would be judged by Jarosław Kaczyński or someone else. Who will make such an assessment that someone has managerial authority? This record doesn't say anything, and it's in the bill. It's an important piece of legislation, so let the minister who's so happy to tell you, especially at committee meetings, that what the senators are going to bring...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u21	Mr. Senator, I understand that this is about competence, about criteria, about who's gonna judge it. I'd like to know who's gonna do... Okay... Would the Minister be able to answer if the Minister would?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u22	Yes, the Minister will answer. I'm just gonna point out that... well, I would really ask that we avoid such political trips after all. Minister, that's why I made that question specific to the senator. I'm asking for an answer. This will be decided in the competition. And the Minister will explain the details.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u23	Yes, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a solution that would differ in any way from how other such calls are regulated. Exactly the same wording we will find, for example. in the Civil Service Act and in many other laws. And the precise answer to the senator's question is in his mouth. 4af, which indicates that the entire competition required by the directive is carried out by the President of the Council of Ministers, and more specifically appointed by the Head of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, a team consisting of at least 3 persons whose knowledge and experience give the guarantee to select the best candidates. In addition, we can find in the following legislation that it does not necessarily have to be people employed in the Prime Minister's firm. It could be, for example. persons who are professionally involved in the recruitment process and the assessment of managerial competence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u24	Thank you very much, Minister. I hope that satisfied the senator. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u25	Well, I have two questions: one substance and the other political, but both to Minister Schreiber. It is the Office of Electronic Communications, which you have incorporated into this law as such an incrimination. Tell me one thing. The term of office of the previous President was due to pass in 2021, but you cancelled the President. Would the Minister be able to say if it had anything to do with the government being dissatisfied with this president? And that's the first question. The second question is already a question, it seems political, but I have to ask it. Why are you removing the Senate from the appointment procedure of the new President of the Office of Electronic Communications?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u26	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u27	I think Minister Wanda Buk will respond in detail. If your marshal will allow me, I'll only be very brief about it. This is the solution for all regulators. The Senate does not play such a role either in the case of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection or in the case of other such entities. The Constitution clearly defines where the Senate's consent is required. That's all that's behind it. And a detailed answer to the questions of the Marshal will be provided by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u28	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I must present a slightly broader context here, because, as you know, the law we are discussing also contains provisions relating to the annulment of the selection procedure for band C, or band intended for 5G. If you are interested in why such a decision has been taken, of course I will explain it, but now I will go directly to the senator's question. Ladies and gentlemen, the deadline for implementing the European Electronic Communications Code is 21 December 2020. It is an EU directive that replaces the existing directives governing the telecommunications market. In this directive, which we are required to implement by this date, which I have mentioned, it is different from before that the President of the Office for Electronic Communications or the President of the Regulatory Authority must be selected in a competitive manner, in a transparent competition procedure. So far, as you have already noticed here, the President of the National Regulatory Authority has been elected by the Sejm and the Senate without any criteria, without any criteria, without any recruitment, without, for example, any minimum requirements to be met. We had such minimum requirements so far in telecommunications law for the deputy presidents, but we did not have them for the head of this body. And unfortunately, our history, the history of this market, knows cases where the appointment of the President of the Electronic Communications Office was questioned, was questioned by operators for years. This was the case in the case of the then President of Anna Streżyńska, whose method of appointment and the correctness of the procedure of appointment even affected the Supreme Administrative Court, it was settled for several years. If we implement the rules I told you about And we will implement it because we have to do it in the coming months, and this will mean, at the time of the entry into force of the Act, i.e. no later than 22 December, that the President of the Office of Electronic Communications, also appointed with your participation in 2016, will be the President appointed unlawfully, because he will not be appointed in the competitive procedure and in the manner referred to in the Directive. We want to avoid it. We want to avoid these allegations and repeat the history that we have already dealt with, because this is the modus operandi of the operators of our Polish telecommunications market, that practically every decision of the regulator is complained, all the more so that the decisions related to the award of the band which I told you about will be issued. We want to avoid these doubts. Even the European Electronic Communications Code itself today says that the Head of the Regulatory Authority must have at least a three-year term. This, of course, no longer applies to the past term of office that we are dealing with in the case of the current President, but it is also worth mentioning that in this case the three years have passed. We have therefore decided to do so, bearing in mind that any day now we will have to introduce these provisions, and we are going to proceed with selection proceedings, which is a very sensitive process and there is no need for additional perturbation in relation to the responsible person who will be conducting this process. Hence our proposal and our acceleration by a few months. On the other hand, it seems that the calling mode itself here is much more transparent. The requirements are indicated. This hasn't happened before. I understand the Senate's doubts. I understand, although I do not agree with them about the fact that the Senate was no longer designated as this body, which also accepts the candidacy. Only that I would like to point out to you that, as Minister Schreiber said, we are not dealing with the role of the Senate in the case of other regulators. We are not dealing with the role of the Senate in the case of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, in the case of the air market regulator, the regulator of the railway market, the regulator of the energy market, so we just thought that in order to be consistent... The government position of the regulator of this particular market is in no way different from the others, and indeed the Senate has the powers specifically indicated in the Constitution which the authorities approve. And that subject isn't there. I think I've responded fairly comprehensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Maria Koc's question, please. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u30	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question for Minister Gawin, Deputy Minister of Culture. Minister, I know there were records of the Pilecki Institute in this bill. At first, as part of the first impression, it may seem strange that such records were included in this bill. And, as far as I know, there was also a recommendation from the committee to simply cross them out. But why were they so important? Why did they appear in this bill, why now? Perhaps you'd like to say something about it. The Institute of Pielecki works very well, not only in Poland, but it already has a branch in Berlin, which conducts excellent historical projects, presenting history from the point of view of Poland and what it really was. Could the Minister say a few words about this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u31	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u32	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. I'd be happy to answer them. First of all, I would like to remind everyone that the Pielecki Institute has been operating for several years, in 2019 we managed to open a branch in Berlin. I think it also has a profound symbolic pronunciation of the fact that the Pilecki Institute is located right next to the Brandenburg Gate on Pariser Platz. In 2019 there was a solemn opening of a large billing exhibition, made in cooperation with the curator, writer and American journalist Jack Fairweather, who published the best-selling biography of Witold Pilecki. The Pilecki Institute's employees cooperated in both the development of this biography and all other activities. I will also remind all senators that the Pilecki Institute is the only institution in Poland I stress: the only institution He signed the largest agreement for the digitisation of German sources from court and trial files, with the Bundesarchiv. And right now we already have in Poland, as a result of this contract and thanks to the fact that we have the Pilecki Institute in Berlin, about 1.5 million court and trial acts. This involves, of course, very hard and antical work, which consists in rewriting and translating documents from German into Polish, throughout the digitalization process... In a word, it is an excellent material for historical research, and above all also material, which, in a sense, can be said to significantly reduce our labour costs. Because until now every single historian or researcher had to go to Berlin personally and after 3 or 4 weeks of work he would go back to Warsaw, and at the moment it is so that the sources once brought to Poland will be with us forever. Now in short, ladies and gentlemen, what is the problem, and I have the impression that this is a very deep misunderstanding by the Senate. The Pilecki Institute is the first institution not acting on the basis of consular law, i.e. not subject to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And in this bill... It was already known from the beginning that we had to change the bill concerning the Pilecki Institute so that it was a self-balance-sheet institution, that is, that this branch in Berlin had its own accounting and that in such a way it would obtain a field of action such as. has a PISM, i.e. the Polish Institute of International Affairs, or like all other cultural institutions operating outside the country. Only in the meantime, there was an epidemic that no one could have predicted. It's true, isn't it? Because none of us knew she was gonna explode with that kind of force. Ladies and gentlemen, on Pariser Platz we already have a very large and beautiful exhibition space. I cordially invite all the senators as soon as this pandemic expires to visit this exhibition. There are group trips... This is a truly excellent source of popularization of knowledge about Poland. At the moment there is a renovation of space, which also belongs to the Pilecki Institute. What caused the Coronavirus pandemic? The lack of our own accounting, the lack of the status of a self-balancing institution made it impossible for us to send directly all the accounts in the originals to Warsaw. This paralyzes both the work of the Institute in Berlin and the work of the Institute in Warsaw. And no one really saw that coming. We know that at the moment the Pilecki Institute is open, the employees went back to the archives, went back there, our headquarters at Pariser Platz is open again, but yesterday we also received information that the number of infections in Germany has tripled again, so it is known that restrictions will be considered, i.e. Whether or not to restore these restrictions again. So that we cannot hope that the functioning of the Pilecki Institute in Berlin will improve. The situation is gonna get harder and harder. And it's getting heavier. Please also note that the Pilecki Institute in Berlin has to settle tenders for the digitisation of sources, i.e. court trials and investigations. So the financial liquidity is just... well, not the financial liquidity, but the fluidity of the documentation flow is absolutely impaired. And certainly these effects cannot be removed in any way other than that the institution will become a self-balance-sheet institution. Ladies and gentlemen, they were also certain, I would say, question marks, rather more, I believe, by those of you who are not lawyers. I'm not a lawyer either, I'm a history professor, not a lawyer. I am referring to the record that the Pilecki Institute can place orders from a free hand. This does not mean that he will be exempt from public procurement. This only means that the institute in Berlin will be subject to these public procurements according to the amounts that are in the European Union. And this is logical, this is an absolutely normal situation for all Polish institutions that operate outside the borders of the country. Let me remind you that it was in the Senate that you approved a similar change with regard to the Polish Institute of International Affairs without any reservations. I'm talking about this as an explanation, because social media has just come up with absolutely fabulous information. I don't know where they come from, and I don't know who's spreading them, just hoping for disinformation. Dear Senators, we have the round anniversary of the end of World War II. Yesterday I listened to draft resolutions, discussions on this subject. I do not hide that I am also here to convince you to support the Pilecki Institute in Berlin. This is so important to me that we have an idea from the very beginning of this institution: not for the left, not for the right, for the whole. And it's important what signal comes out of this House. We owe to the Institute of Pilecki in recent weeks, for example, that to the slogan: spasibo, merci, thank you, the German side also added the inscription in Polish: thank you. I do not hide that there were some very controversial ideas that emerged from the German foundations to celebrate the end of World War II, but they were effectively, I would say, redirected to another area of action. Cooperation with the German partners is good for us, but for me and, I believe, for the workers who are waiting very much for your decision, it is extremely important that such a positive recommendation should also come from the Senate. I hope that what I have said will meet with your understanding, and that I have resolved all my doubts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u33	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Philip Libicki's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u34	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. My question is addressed to Minister Swede. It is true that there is some concern in the environment of those involved in occupational activities and sheltered work. It concerns that at the time when such entities would benefit from the support of all these data instruments by individual crisis shields, because they would meet the conditions, they would at the same time cease to meet the conditions under which they obtained the status of a professional establishment or a protected employment establishment. This is where he goes. about the working time of employed persons. I'm not hiding that I'm wearing the intention of making an amendment that's in time for pandemics. This is clearly stated, for the time of the pandemic, it would link the anti-COVID Act with the Rehabilitation Act, so that at the time when those protected employment establishments or professional activity establishments would benefit from the anti-COVID Act, they would not be in a situation where they would lose the status of protected employment establishments or professional activities. Has the Minister reached such doubts about this environment? What do you think of the Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u35	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this matter has been partially regulated in the second shield If there's still a problem, as the senator says, we'll check it out. Well, of course, the general principle is that we absolutely do not want to allow such a situation, that because of Coronavirus any plant was injured. The actions we are taking are going this way, and we want to help these companies. We'll check it out, but, as I say, the rules are in the second shield. I think they're somehow resolving the doubts you've been talking about, but we'll check it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u38	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! My question is addressed to the Minister of Finance present in the Chamber of Minister Piotr Patkowski. I would like to ask the Minister about the position of the finance department for the amendment that I tabled with Senator Tyszkiewicz on the basis of his experience in the context of public collections, and in practice on the basis of the following problem. Today, in public collections aimed at the purchase of medical devices, personal protective equipment, equipment, cleaning and disinfection equipment for hospitals, 24-hour care facilities for disabled persons, DPSs, care and medical establishments or regional care and therapist facilities, there is a duty to This is an obligation imposed on both natural persons and legal persons. And when you buy medical equipment, e.g. respirators, unfortunately, there is a duty to pay tax on goods and services. I would like to ask about the position of the Ministry in the context of the need for legislative changes in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u39	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. The High Izbo, the Ministry of Finance in principle agrees with the idea presented by Senator Kwiatkowski and, of course, we fully support the possibility of taking all kinds of taxation in the case of donations related to the fight against COVID, while the amendment itself is negative. Why? The negative opinion is not due to the substance of the amendment, but to the fact that similar provisions are planned to be introduced by the Ministry of Finance. They are already proposed in a project that Mr Schreiber mentioned at the beginning of the meeting and which is currently at the stage of government work. I hope that these provisions will soon be passed on to Parliament for work, so that we can return to this discussion. The second point, which is important, is that, in line with the Ministry of Finance's proposal to the Prime Minister's office, we want to extend these rules, i.e. include not only the law on inheritance tax and donations, but also the law on PIT and CIT tax. Why? Unfortunately, the transfer mechanism itself has many tax implications. It goes on here, for example. the possibility of including a donation in the cost of obtaining income, the possibility of deducting it from CIT or PIT in connection with who is the taxable person. Therefore, the adoption of this amendment in the version proposed by Minister Kwiatkowski... Of course, she would have partially achieved her goal, but it would still have to be amended immediately, i.e. extending this to the relevant PIT and CIT laws. Of course, this amendment is in the article, I think. 2, referring to these laws, but, frankly, according to the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, the need to regulate this in these 2 laws... Unfortunately, change is not enough. just one article, it is only necessary to change many articles so that it covers the whole of what the entrepreneurial environments report to us. Therefore, I can declare that the Ministry of Finance will present such a proposal soon, and I hope that we can meet again and talk about it as soon as possible. Of course, we support the idea ourselves, but we are proposing to the High House to regulate this matter comprehensively and to think a little longer about it, so that there is no doubt, it was not so that after such legislation has been adopted, it would be necessary to amend it later to seal this system and that the recipient of such a donation not only be exempt from inheritance tax and donations, but also have specific privileges on the basis of the PIT and CIT tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u41	Thank you very much. The senator wanted to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u42	Yeah, I was gonna ask. Thank you very much for this reply. Because the Minister used 2 arguments. The first is that there are similar regulations, even wider ones, in a government project. With regard to the authorship of the amendment, I am ready at this point in the Chamber to collect the signatures of the PiS senators, because this is not about who is submitting this amendment, it is about solving the problem. And the second argument. Yeah, well, I have experience working with the government, too. The fact that the project is at the stage of inter-ministerial arrangements, as I understand it, is in a formal way, absolutely does not give us any real guidance today when it will be adopted. That's why I'd like to ask you very warmly. I'd recommend it. The government's position will probably be particularly important in the parliamentary work phase. I want you to consider whether regulation is already in place. Let's at least slow it down a little bit... I am extremely pleased that you provide for a wider release of Senator Tyszkiewicz to speak about this, about the specific collections he carries out, about the obligations imposed on those who collect this money. But it's about slowing down. Wouldn't the Minister be prepared to examine, together with Minister Schreiber, of course after consulting the government, the change of government position so as to already support this amendment and, of course, work to make this relief even wider if I am happy about it. Is that the government's intention?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u43	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u44	Thank you. Mr. Senator, of course we support the idea. If this is the decision of the High House and the entire legislator, then of course the government will do it as much as possible. However, if I could, I would recommend holding off for a while longer. Of course, I know that the government's legislative process from the Senate's perspective is something quite remote, but believe us that we care about time, because there are a number of provisions in this law that have to enter into force so that many tax matters can be resolved and conducted pro-entrepreneurially. Therefore, I wouldn't be so worried about the length of the trial. I would therefore ask, however, for a moment more to be held back in order to do this holistically, because tax legislation is a sensitive branch of law in which stability is particularly important. And even if we're making a pro-entrepreneurial change, but then we're updating it anyway, there's always a fear that this change will cause some uncertainty on the part of entrepreneurs. Entrepreneurs often signal that sometimes it is worth to refrain from a change, even if it is beneficial for us, but to introduce it once and for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u45	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have two questions for Minister Schreiber. Minister Schreiber in the so-called "Mr. The opening statement was urged by the Senate, called for it to work quickly, because businessmen and people are waiting. The Minister was kind to mention among others. care allowance, which has been extended and which needs to be paid quickly. I would like to say, Minister, that we have already proposed previously and consistently that the record should be general, i.e. so that this allowance is paid during the period during which schools and educational establishments are closed. And I'm not talking about age right now; if it were to be eight years old, it's difficult, although we disagree and we had a proposal on it. Well, it was the simplest solution, not extending it every 14 days when you know these schools are closed. If you'd taken this solution, that wouldn't be the problem right now. So the question is: why do you not accept this solution? The second question, also related to the fact that the Minister expects the Senate to act quickly. Well, I would like to say, Minister, that in the Sejm in the relevant committee, the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, so to speak, there is a law that we have adopted... Of course, it is a draft law that we have adopted; it is so-called. Retired in 1953 She's been lying there for four months. And it's only because the government just doesn't want it, for completely unknown reasons to me and for reasons I don't understand. 50,000 women are waiting for this solution, which in its time was addressed to the Constitutional Tribunal. There's a verdict in this case. I'll tell you more, the government here, in this room, actually approved it, but suddenly it turns out it's impossible to process it. So on the one hand, the Senate is supposed to work faster, but on the other hand, in the Seym... And don't hide from the Marshal of the Seym, the Seym, etc. etc., because it is well known that the government is making a decision on this matter. I may not be asking now, but I ask the Minister to change his mind about this, to intervene. What I'm saying is... well, if you don't, we can say that we don't have the impulse to do things quickly either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u47	Thank you very much. Will the Minister answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u48	Very briefly. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Senator, I understand that you can have such a position, but addicting work in the Senate and its speed to a completely different project, which is in the Seym, seems surprising to me at least. I, of course, take, say, to the heart of this appeal, because I understand that this is what it is about to speed up the work on this project, but I do not know why this would lead to the extension of the work on this project in the Senate. I think these are two completely different things. It's not like I'm messing with... I could now join the appeals and appeal that, in connection with the electoral law that has been adopted, it should be dealt with more quickly, but this is a different matter. Well, I have the general impression that almost every bill seems to be held pretty tight here. Well, that's your choice, of course. I can only ask and encourage this to take place at a slightly faster pace. As far as benefits are concerned, this is governed by the Regulation. There's a need for that record. Decisions on extending this deadline were taken in relation to the situation in Poland and with a recommendation or decision of the Minister of Health. And well, ladies and gentlemen, at this point we are in a situation where the absence of this law prolongs all this. Well, I understand this voice more as a polemic voice, and I take some of it to heart. Mrs. Marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u49	Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u50	Again, because I don't know if we fully understand each other. After all, it would be easier to accept the principle that the benefit is paid as long as the school is closed. Well, school, kindergarten and other facilities, because it's about kids up to the age of 8. That's all it is. So the question is, why extend every 14 days and then get nervous that the Senate hasn't passed it yet? This is the first case. As far as the other case is concerned, that is, the case of this bill that lies in the Sejm, I will say yes. Minister, we certainly will not prolong any extremely important, necessary urgent act just because the government ignores the needs of 50,000 women and the Senate project. When you apply various laws to us, such as the COVID ones, which we quickly accepted. And it turns out that there are a lot of things that need to be investigated for a good cause, we're not doing it because there's a request from the government to act as soon as possible. Well, there are a lot of people who ask why we don't do it, why we give up certain senate responsibilities in a situation where the government ignores our projects. And we're talking about a project that the government generally supported, and I'm not talking about projects that the government doesn't agree with. So that you can see that in such a context we are actually acting faster than the Senate should normally act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u51	Thank you very much. If you don't mind... You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u52	Well, I guess we didn't fully understand each other. With the speed of the Senate, it depends on what law we're looking at. As for the law that gave the right to elect a new president, it was difficult to get that impression. But I'm happy with this declaration, and I'm counting on it to look a little different this time. And as far as these benefits are concerned, maybe I wasn't specific. Maybe you'll be able to extend my speech to Minister Stanisław Szwed. This is made today at the level of regulations. Here we are dealing with a situation where some parents of people with disabilities, those who may exercise this right to a child of eighteen years of age... If the Minister could say two more words, I'd appreciate it. The point is to be clear here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u53	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, there's no doubt about what you said here. We extend this regulation in case schools and kindergartens are closed, this is how it works. We have extended the 2.0 shield with the possibility of taking care of children up to 18 years old. This applies to parents whose children are taught and not over 18 years of age, or are further educated. Well, it's also about special education. This provision, which we propose, will apply to the period from 25 May, that is to say, this further period. If the schools are open and the parents do not want to send their children to them, they will be able to continue to benefit from this provision, which allows them to receive an additional welfare allowance. This is now the case for this narrow group, which we are putting into the law for a further period, without a regulation.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, last sentence, absolutely last sentence. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u56	Since Minister Schreiber is constantly harassing the Senate, this cannot be left unanswered. The Minister was polite to say that we were working fast, but in the case of the President-electing law, this was not noticed. Minister, you should thank the Senate. The Senate saved a ruling group from embarrassment. After all, this bill could not enter into force, and if it was implemented, it would be compromised. You know our calculations. I was the one who presented them. I'd say it immodestly. And you know that couldn't be done. I was hoping if you came here, you'd just thank the Senate, and you're still complaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u57	Thank you. I would only add from myself that the working time of the Senate on the bill depends on the quality of the bill that comes from the Sejm. Thank you very much. I ask Senator Stanisław Lemczyk to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Gentlemen of Ministers! The money within this shield also goes to transport, public collective transport. This is very important because, as we know, the transport of people has suffered the most here, the revenue from transport has fallen. I welcome the idea of Minister Bittel to cede these statutory concessions to students, students, etc. in the case of collective and rail transport to carriers. I am very pleased about this, but, Minister, not everyone is treated equally here, because there are other operators who are selected in competitive mode, as well as those who provide services in municipalities and powiats. I can give examples here, for example Arriva in Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship or Żuławska railway in Pomerania. It's a very good idea, but they should be caught up in it, too. Such a major problem is the bus transport of people. Here's the list: the turnover went down because these companies usually lived only from commercial ticket sales. Their turnover dropped the most, dropped by up to 90%, and these are companies that have so far... Mr. Senator, would you be able to formulate a question? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, question. This means that one question has already been asked: can we co-opt district and municipal services as well as other carriers? The second question concerns buses, because bus transport is experiencing the most... financial problems. Until now, such companies could only benefit from the Guaranteed Occupational Benefits Fund. They're big companies and they can't get e.g. money from the Polish Development Fund, because such a failure has sneaked into the rules, and if the local government is involved, then such a PKS is qualified for large companies and cannot use... Minister, can bus transport be co-opted for these reliefs? Because, as I say, these companies are going to suffer the most here. These are large companies, employing 250, 200 drivers, and they may fall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u59	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u60	Okay, I'll try to answer that. Indeed, there is a whole railway package, you can say, there are a few important provisions in this bill and a great deal of assistance to go, also, contrary to what the honourable senator said, to these regional private carriers. As a minister from Bydgoszcz, I can say that this company, which you mentioned, will also be eligible for such support. So that there is no exclusion here. As far as buses are concerned, this bus market, especially where, as I understand it, local authorities are involved, I would point out that in the proposal which you have received, in the bill there is an increase in the rate for cars kilometres from 1 PLN to 3 PLN when it comes to the bus fund. This also seems to be encouraging local authorities and carriers to make an offer that would fit into this fund. So this is in this case, I think, a very good solution to think about how to use it. But I also ask you to be careful. We are not able to subsidize everyone in every way, especially those who do not want to show some shot in these programs. This is the proposal for this moment and this is the real proposal. In conclusion, using the opportunity to speak ad vocem, I will say, because Senator Marek Borowski was talking about a threatening compromise... I'm happy for you at all. Minister, that's not the answer to that question. You're welcome... But I didn't answer... That's not the question anymore. I'm just gonna say one thing. Please, Minister... I'm only gonna answer one sentence. Don't escalate. But I'm not escalating anything. We're talking about the COVID bill. Well, no, I'm sorry, but the senator didn't talk about the COVID bill... Senator Lamczyk asked the question, and the Minister answered. I would ask you very much to answer just about it. You're welcome. Good. I'm just gonna answer that question. In all these calculations, which the honourable senator has presented here to the House, there was a provision which allowed to extend the compositions of committees also in large cities and in a very significant way, so that... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, you could also do it ten times... Gentlemen, I would very much ask you to save your polemics for later. So that's all I wanted to draw attention to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u61	Thank you very much... I still have a question for Minister Schreiber... Yes, you're welcome. You want to ask, don't you?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u62	Minister, we will make an appropriate amendment, because indeed the examples I have told you are not included, Arriva and other carriers, and there are them, those others, 16 in Poland. And also, Minister, I know about these buses... Because they are, if it's in shield four... They are no longer able to endure this and we will therefore make an amendment in this respect to this Article. 22 in the bus bill to correct. So that I think, Minister, if you say so here, she will also be supported by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u63	Thank you very much. Is the Minister still up to it, but that's all he'd like to say?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u64	Yeah, just this one, just this one. I am absolutely unable to declare my support by the government for such amendments. What has been written is thoughtful, discussed, and it is possible. But, of course, we'll see what this amendment looks like. Well, we took some time to discuss, and that's all we can offer today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u65	Thank you very much. One more question... Minister, this is equal treatment of all players on the Polish market, it is only about this justice. Thank you very much. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, remotely. You're welcome to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, My question isn't particularly about health. Namely in shield 3.0, in a government project concerning judges, namely in Article. 15zzs5... I will briefly remind you of this article before I ask the following question: "During the duration of the epidemic or epidemic situation announced because of COVID-19 and within one year of the cancellation of the last of them, the division of the activities referred to in Article. 22a of the Law on the System of General Courts, may be determined before consulting the college of the competent court. The appeal against the division of operations shall not impede its application. If the appeal is taken into account, the allocation of cases before the delivery to the court of the resolution of the National Judicial Council shall remain in force. And my question to the Minister of Justice: why should the right to presidents apply one year after the outbreak is over? It's a gateway for court presidents to make unjustified staff changes according to the political key. This recipe will allow the judges from the department to be transferred to the department. The Resort justifies this change by the fact that in the event of the illness of several judges from one department at COVID-19 it will be possible to quickly supplement the formations of the courts. And I have a second question about the article. 16. I don't know if we're waiting for the answer now, if I can ask that question in the second round, Mrs. Marshal... Ask that question right away, Senator. Okay, a very short question, too. It concerns Article. 16 of this bill, shield 3.0. Namely, are we sure that the burden on audiovisual suppliers of 1.5% of payments is required revenue to the Polish Film Institute will not increase the price of services for access to these platforms? These are Netflix, Amazon, Apple, Polsat, TVN, etc. And so, will it not burden Polish users who have been isolated in their homes for more than two months? Thank you very much. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u67	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u68	If I may, I would kindly ask Minister Anna Dalkowska to answer the first part of the question and the second part of the question. Mr Paweł Lewandowski. Just one point about the other. It is difficult for the government to declare an increase or lack of price increases by private companies. This is independent of any record that is entered, so that it would be rather frivolous if I could make such declarations. If you could ask the Minister and the Minister in detail to answer these questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u69	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u70	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Motivation to introduce the regulation contained in Article. 15zzs5 is the current state of the epidemic where we are. This regulation is part of the whole package of provisions contained in the Act on the possibility of launching the activities of courts after adapting them to the current conditions and epidemiological risks, as well as after ensuring the safety of both workers and persons who are participants in judicial proceedings. As regards the detailed regulation referred to in the question referred by the senator, I would like to explain to you, High Izbo, that in the current regulation contained in the law on the general court system, the change in the scope of the act of a judge is subject to review in the form of an appeal to the National Judicial Council and, of course, the judge has the right to challenge the scope of the act set out by the President by reference to the procedure provided for in the Act. The lodging of such an appeal shall suspend the execution of this new division of operations. This means that until the appeal procedure is completed, the judge has no obligation to work as if in a new dimension of the task. The current state of the epidemic in which we are located causes that in a situation where certain departments of the courts due to possible diseases or due to a new division of tasks, including the introduction of shift work systems... This may result in a situation in which the need and the need to move judges from departments which are less burdened with work to those which require more work at a given point in time. Therefore, this regulation assumes that this appeal process of the judge will not hinder the execution of this new division of activities. That is, in other words, the judge, for whom the President has determined a new division of operations, has of course the right to lodge an appeal and this decision will be subject to scrutiny, but once the new division is obtained he will be required to take action in this new division and to a new extent. Therefore, there is a direct link with the state of the epidemic, and this is directly due to the sound of the regulation, and the reason is, of course, the need to ensure the proper functioning of the courts and the judicial dimension in the conditions under which we are in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u71	Thank you very much. And you're Minister Lewandowski, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u72	Thank you very much. Senator! High Izbo! Mrs. Marshal! As regards the issue of price increases, as Minister Schreiber said, we do not influence this. However, as far as the likelihood of price increases is concerned, we can make it clear that the revenue from VOD in Poland outside the pandemic period amounts to about PLN 1.3 billion. We'd like to see you as part of an article. 19 Cinema Act of 1.5% on these revenues paid VOD platforms. Why? That is because, when the Act on Cinema was designed, such a contribution was covered by all the operators involved in the display and operation of audiovisual works at that time, i.e. cinemas, distributors, cablers, satellites and television, including public television. And each of these entities pays 1.5% on the Polish Film Institute for the exploitation of film works. Thanks to this we have an independent government, independent from anyone institution, which is able to finance cinema in Poland. At the time, there were no VOD platforms, and if they had already appeared, their market share was such a marginal fraction that they were not even taken into account in the course of the analysis. In connection with the audiovisual directive, which is procedated, was adopted by the Polish government and is in the process of implementation, we have been given the opportunity to charge this type of fee also VOD platforms. VOD platforms are experiencing a huge boom during the pandemic period and have grown as fast as possible in terms of revenues from the exploitation of audiovisual works. As they had not so far been covered by this levy, they de facto had an uneven market position vis-à-vis other operators, benefited from benefits and did not share huge profits, among others. with the creators of these works. If you wish, you can access foreign platforms such as: Netflix and you will find there a lot of Polish cinematography, among others. Polish film school, as well as Oscar works or works awarded in Cannes. Therefore, first of all, it seems that such a fee is fair, second of all, it must be remembered that because cinemas do not work, distributors do not work, in general the entire distribution practically died due to the outbreak of COVID and cannot be used in the standard way, the profits of the Polish Film Institute, which finances the entire artistic cinema in Poland... The whole, practically every artist in Poland who produced any artistic film, was financed among others. from the Polish Film Institute. And we predict that next year the revenues of the Polish Film Institute will be dramatically reduced and this threatens the collapse of Polish cinematography. Thus, for these reasons, the Polish government decided to align the position of VOD suppliers with other market participants. Moreover, in a situation where these are the only earning and even a few hundred percent increase in profits and market shares, we believe that this is morally justified. As far as the impact on the price is concerned, let me remind you: this is 1.5% of the revenue from the exploitation of these audiovisual materials. Similar mechanisms, or even the same ones, are also covered in other countries, e.g. France or Germany. Other countries of the European Union are also at different stages of the legislative process to introduce such a solution. And I am convinced, given the fact that we are talking about very high margins, that foreign platforms will pay these contributions above all foreign platforms. They will not feel this in a way that is important enough to raise prices. And I hope that doesn't happen. And if even, well, I assume the price increase is 1.5%. , is not shocking enough and drastic enough for the user to withdraw from so important for the Polish art of recording. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u73	Thank you very much. Senator Halina Poor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u74	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ministers, High Izbo, I have a question for Minister Gawin. The government has announced such a scholarship and grant programme Even increased the amount of funding there. I'd like to ask if you know when the results will be. Because there have been over 12 thousand applications, and I have signals from cultural institutions, people of culture, artists, creators who are very much counting on these funds. Because it's known that this is also a field of life, an industry of whatever we call it. Where influences, earning opportunities, well, they're very limited, they're gone. I would therefore like to ask whether it is possible to know when the Ministry and the National Cultural Centre will announce these results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u75	Thank you very much. Which one of you... You're Minister Lewandowski, aren't you? Well, yes, if... the question was for Minister Gawin, but... [[The voice from the room: Yeah, I was just...]] ...I'll just point out that it's... Excuse me, I thought the Minister represented the Ministry of Culture. Minister, Minister. Then who's gonna answer? I'm just gonna make a brief remark that it's like it's completely unrelated to the legal matter. But if the Minister can answer, then... This, Minister... Ad vocem. Minister, it does, because the shield does not directly apply to people of culture here, but, I think, these are also activities supporting artists, actors, etc. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u76	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Network culture is indeed a program to help creators survive this most difficult period. We know that there have been very, very many conclusions. We have encouraged the submission of proposals ourselves. The Ministry of Culture also provided all the information on this subject, such exhausting ones, or tried in some way to help also the creators, because it is an environment... that is artistic. Not all of them are, I'd say, proficient in formal and legal matters. And I'll explain when the contest is settled. This is a program of the National Centre of Culture, which is not directly subject to me. However, I know that the internal outcome of the competition will be at the beginning of next week, so we can expect the results to be announced in the coming days. Both the recruitment and the self-examination of proposals were intended to help the creators to reach out to them as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u77	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Marcin Bosacki's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u78	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Senate! Ministers! My question is addressed to Minister Schreiber, and concerns his statement, and I do not want to use the word "scandal," because I look forward to explaining, but very disturbing, at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. This is to be watched in the sixty-seventh minute of the committee meeting. The Minister said, referring to the trial of the Senate: "You can, of course, recommend such a vote. "It is about a large number of amendments, about your own additions to the bill and about the deletion of parts which, in the view of many senators, have nothing to do with the fight against the epidemic and the economic crisis. And then the Minister continued: 'I still believe that all the deletions and corrections'in the idea: the Senate. and so the Sejm will reject '. This is a very serious political declaration. I would like to ask: was it formulated on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Poland, the Government of the PIS, whether it concerns this law and that you will be a priori, without waiting for the result of the Senate's work, rejecting everything the Senate proposes? I remind you that in the quote there is all of it. And is this the new doctrine of the PiS government? Of course, the doctrine has been implemented for six months, because any amendments and initiatives of the Senate, in which the democratic opposition has a majority, are rejected by the States in the Sejm. Unless you come to us, as it has happened several times recently, asking us to amend it, because you have made a legislative mess at the stage of the preparation of laws in the government and in the Sejm. I repeat the question: is it a new doctrine that you will be all? whatever the Senate in this bill and in other laws will prepare to reject, as you have declared it, massly, all the corrections and deletions? I ask for a serious and precise answer, Minister, because this response may influence the procedure and outcome of the Senate's proceedings and in general the government's cooperation with the Upper House of Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u79	Thank you very much. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u80	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! First of all, I would very much like to ask that we give up the bidding when it comes to the democraticity of individual groups or circles. Everyone's here, in this room as a result of democratic elections and here. There is no difference between the government and the opposition. Secondly, as far as this particular statement is concerned, it seems to me that it was quite clear. If not, then of course... That was even from what you said. This was the case for specific entries. Of course you have the right to do so. and this applies to specific entries In order to propose the deletion of entire articles not because they are bad, but because they allegedly do not connect, do not bind, you do not think they are associated with the pandemic of Coronavirus. Of course, since these are all the articles that were included in this bill, they were adopted by the government And I hope that this is the only reason why they will not be crossed out. These are not amendments that are designed to make this law look better, to function better, to benefit people, but to simply delete the entire rules. Well, since I represent the government before you as regards this bill, since I'm an applicant, it's hard for me to take a different position when it comes to an amendment to delete the entire article. And the only reason to delete it is because, as I say... The allegation is that the rule does not involve a pandemic, it is not even such a charge that it is a bad record. Yeah, well, in that sense, I'm supporting it. I can only express that hope... Of course, such amendments, i.e. without any other justification, will be difficult for me to approve in any way, either with this or with other laws. What's more, there are situations like this, including government support... There is one amendment that deletes one article, I think it's an article. 25... this is an article that concerns postal law. We had a discussion about this in the Sejm, for example. at the committee meeting, where there were real doubts, quite rightly and logically raised by the representatives of the Left. I then promised that by the time we worked at the Senate, we would carefully examine whether there was real danger of a certain legal gap, whether it could arise or whether this threat was real. After various analyses, it actually turned out that it was real. Thus, the attitude of the government is of course different to such an amendment, with such justification. However, I would like to stress once again: as regards the proposal to delete the whole article, without really stating, in my view, the substantive reason for this deletion, it is difficult to expect that my position as an applicant, and thus the government that adopted this document, to be different. I hope that now this matter is quite clear to the honourable senator, and we know what I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u81	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u82	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to address my question to Minister Łukasz Schreiber. Minister, I have such a very positive question, of a more general nature. We are considering the amendment of the laws which are the next aid package within the framework of the 3.0 shield which the Law and Justice Government directs to the Polish society. The solutions so far have been very positive, not only by employers and workers, but also by many institutions. For example, in a report made available on Friday on methods of supporting the economy by Eastern European countries during the crisis caused by the pandemic of Coronavirus, ING estimates that Poland has introduced the strongest anti-crisis shield in the region, in particular direct transfers of cash from the state to workers and Polish companies. I would like to ask the question: how many proposals within the crisis shield and financial shield, i.e. shield 1.0 and shield 2.0, have already been considered and for what amount? How many beneficiaries will receive aid under the 3.0 shield? I'm asking for an answer. If, of course, there are such statistics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u83	Thank you very much. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u84	I have such a kind request, if your marshal agrees... I need to find one document to answer, so maybe one more senator would ask a question, and then I'll answer both questions. Of course, Minister. I'd like to be able to present the latest data.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u85	Of course. Good. Senator Kazimierz Klein. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u86	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We at the committee meeting, of course, did almost everything we could, in connection with this law, we made amendments and all things... It was done the way we thought it would be. But we haven't discussed one thing, and I think that this question and the answer to that question would be interesting. So what is the cost of implementing the third shield that we're debating right now? And did you analyze it... Well, I'm sure it is, so that question obviously doesn't exist. But what is the cost of implementing this law? And second question. We didn't make any amendments at the committee meeting on tourism issues. We have announced that these amendments will appear during the Senate session. And tourism is one of the sectors that have suffered the most. We even submitted a proposal for amendments to the Ministry. I would like to ask the Minister responsible for tourism to answer the question of how he sees these actions and what should be the nature of these amendments in order to ease particularly these professional groups, perhaps even niche... But it turns out that there are a huge number of them in Poland They're e.g. Tourist guides, mountain guides or others who work a little on the outskirts of tourism, but are undoubtedly important from the point of view of the functioning of the entire industry. And this is a competition. whether professional activities, which are most often launched on a seasonal basis, most often from April to October, etc., so in practice it turned out that they are outside the support and assistance system of the ministries. Thank you very much...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u87	Thank you very much. Minister, can you answer that already? Yeah, I'll try... I would ask you first to answer Senator Alexander Swede's question, and next. Senator Kazimierz Kleina's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u88	We have here... We've been consulting with Minister Stanislaw Swede... As for the most recent, most recent data, that is to say the state of play for yesterday, for last night, which we can pass on... As far as the financial shield is concerned, the funds have already been made available to 85 000 companies. That's what it looks like right now. 85,000 companies. It also includes about... The number of people, the jobs involved, is now approaching 900 000. Already PLN 18 billion has been entered into the accounts of Polish entrepreneurs. As for the mechanisms of this crisis shield, which are mainly supported by the Ministry of Family, Labour and Social Policy, nearly 3 million 600 thousand applications have already been submitted, we have been awarded over... well, nearly half a million loans to micro-entrepreneurs amounting to PLN 2 billion 400 million. As far as parking benefits are concerned, nearly 300 000 benefits were paid for the amount of nearly PLN 600 million. As far as the protection of jobs from the fund is concerned, this amount amounts to about PLN 2 billion 700 million at the moment. There are other things... But together, under these different instruments, nearly PLN 7 billion 800 million were paid. We also have liquidity support, aid to maintain the liquidity of companies offered by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, together with the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, changed the terms of the Businessmax guarantee with a loan interest payment, the total value of the guarantees granted to BGK amounts to 2 billion 550 million, i.e. about 7 000 companies. Total ... If we add up these values, it would turn out that they already amount to more than 28 billion PLN in all these components. When it comes to tourism, there are many solutions... Minister Marek Niebżak is here, who can say that there are also many solutions that are still being prepared, which will be in the project of the Ministry of Development. If... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yes. As far as OSR is concerned, this is described in detail. Here's the amount. I'm the one who's been talking from the beginning. Maybe it's not some kind of kneeling thing, because it's less than 3 billion zlotys. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, we're talking about the project itself when it comes to the consequences. But let's remember that we have a lot of instruments here to make life easier, make it easier to process. We've got the moving measures running, just like in the case of railway packages, because they're e.g. funds that have already been mobilised for a different purpose and are now being moved to ensure liquidity for these companies. So that this assistance is being extended and we have a number of facilitations. Well, we have talked, we have discussed the article after the article, Mr Senator, Mr President, at the committee meeting, so you are very well aware of the mechanisms that have been put in place here. Well, like I said, the amount of this extra support is what I'm talking about. But no matter what, there are still a number of mechanisms we've been talking about. Thank you very much. And if you could ask, if your marshal would allow, then in the matter of tourism, Minister Marek Nieżak from the Ministry of Development could further expand this information.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u89	You're welcome, Mr. Small Man.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u90	Thank you very much. I, of course, met my humble abilities, because it so happens that Minister Gut-Mostov, who was here, had to leave and I am filling in for him. Yesterday, we were with the president at the committee meeting, so I'm familiar with the subject. Yes, indeed, the amendment proposed by your president yesterday concerning the tourism professions that are, by their nature, seasonally carried out... The point is, someone like that. he works during the holiday period and then suspends this activity because it makes no sense to provide such services outside the holiday season. And this amendment by the President has received a positive opinion, a positive assessment, because it fills a certain gap, right, allows... Here, too, Minister Swed, on behalf of the Ministry of Labour, responded positively to it yesterday. In fact, it is possible to say that there was a need that the Senator's amendment meets or that, so to speak, this amendment responds to this need. These people suspended activities earlier than just before the outbreak of the COVID epidemic, they suspended activities e.g. At the end of last summer's holiday season, I don't know, let's say somebody suspended their operations on August 31st. And the point is that these people can also benefit from help, even though theoretically they now may still have suspended activities. But that's their situation that they might need help because they don't do business while waiting for their season. This is where the amendment goes. Here is a positive position, also agreed with the Ministry of Labour. So that I think this is the answer to the president's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u91	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u92	Thank you very much. I would like to refer to the question of Senator Gorgon-Komor, who asked about prices, was concerned about the increase in the price of services in streaming or VOD services. I would just like to say that I hope that these services will dance because this particular industry at the moment has its golden harvest, i.e. Her profits have increased a lot. And good for you, it's a good thing that citizens can benefit from it. As I say, this sad situation of pandemics has caused these companies to develop rapidly, so that prices should fall rather than rise, I hope. But since this topic has caused a lot of questions and controversy at all, I would like to ask Minister Lewandowski to say a few words about the current state of cinematography, about how this industry has lost a great deal in pandemics. I ask the Minister to say a little more about how the introduction of these charges will improve the condition of the Polish film, which is at the moment simply - No, I dare use that word. In a giant collapse. This is a situation that hasn't really happened so far. Some premiere films are currently being held online on some well-known international platforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u93	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u94	Thank you very much. Thank you, Senator, for this question, although it may not be directly related to the bill that was being drafted at the moment. We should mention here and point out very clearly that we expect 15 million zlotys of income this year when it comes to the Polish Film Institute, so we can at least patch the hole that was created in connection with the current epidemic. It should be remembered that about PLN 165, 170 million per year affects the Polish Film Institute for 1.5% fee pursuant to art. 19, to which the VOD platforms have just been included. It must be remembered that we in the first COVID disc introduced a new definition of the film, in accordance with the Film Act. So far, this film must have been an audiovisual work, which of course met certain parameters, and an important element was the premiere in the cinema, although one display in the cinema. Today, we have a different legal situation, and we have allowed films that cannot be premiered at the cinema, but may have premiere on VOD platforms, to be treated, in accordance with the law, as cinematographic works, even though they are not actually displayed in the cinema. As far as the industry is concerned, the director's guild has made recommendations on the implementation of films which clearly indicate that filmmaking is not recommended during the pandemic, although there is no formal ban on the implementation of such intentions. I know that some private producers are about to open film plans and, of course, implement audiovisual works under certain sanitary conditions. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage together with the Polish Film Institute and the film label at Chełmska developed guidelines on how to work on film plans. These guidelines were to be published today, so either they are published or they will be published within the next few hours. At the same time, as part of the next stages of freezing the economy, we plan to open outdoor cinemas, including among others. Car theater. We expect that some of the events related to cinema can therefore be carried out in part. Nevertheless, we are convinced... Maybe it's different. That's not how much we're 100%. convinced, but the analysis shows that in the near future we will not be able to open normally cinemas The cinemas will have to continue to be closed, and this is because it is difficult to introduce a sanitary regime in rooms that are air-conditioned. Studies show that air conditioning contributes significantly to the spread of the virus . regardless of the distance between those affected by the risk of contamination. In this connection also film festivals, even the most important film festivals, I mean Gdynia They are in danger of being held this year. Various studies indicate that further possible waves of epidemics may also occur in the autumn, and we are unable to create such conditions in the case of closed festivals or film screenings so that they can be safely involved in these events. The opening of car and outdoor cinemas gives the possibility to display other works using this infrastructure, which will help in a quite important way the economy, because e.g. security companies and other service companies that participate in such projects will be able to carry out their activities. Citizens will be able to partially participate in works of culture other than film, for example. it will be possible to display theatrical arts which cannot be performed at this moment with the participation of the audience. In conclusion, because this year the whole cinematography has been de facto frozen and the chance that this year it will be possible to see anything in the traditional way is small... All of this causes the income of the Polish Film Institute to fall dramatically. It is therefore expected that the next year will be difficult to finance artistic works. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. Before I ask another senator to ask me a question I will immediately add that it will be Senator Jan Maria Jackowski I'll say I was asked to read the list of senators who signed up to ask questions. These are, as I mentioned, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, Senator Krzysztof Brejza, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Senator Krzysztof Mróz and Senator Rafał Ambrozik. These are the senators who are currently... Fedorovich. Senator Fedorovich has also signed up, who has just signalled this fact... No, I signaled it an hour ago. Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. You're already on the questioning list. I ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski to ask the government for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! I would like to talk about the Polish Hunting Union here. What I am interested in is this: what would happen if the assets of the ZŁ would be used to counter the effects of the pandemic? What would the hunting costs normally, as we know, be covered by ZŁ? Do we have a special fund in the Ministry of Agriculture, or is there any other way to secure those claims that will result from hunting damages? That's my first question. And the second question is: were such solutions proposed in relation to the Polish Hunting Union also proposed in relation to other organizations? Well, here I am thinking about the Polish Angling Union, the Polish Departmental Association or other such organizations, which are socio-hobbyistic, but relate to a wealth economy, with a huge wealth that remains at their disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u97	Thank you very much, Senator. I think those were questions for Minister Schreiber, because... Therefore, I am asking Minister Schreiber whether he will answer these questions himself or whether he will delegate one of the ministers. If I may... You're welcome, of course. ...then I will ask Minister Golińska for an answer in this regard. We're having a detailed discussion here. I ask the Minister to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u98	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! In connection with the question of collateral in case all funds... If I understood correctly, you asked me who would cover the costs of compensation for the damage caused by the game if all the means of the hunting union were to go to the fight against the coronavirus. So I will refer to my previous statement, in which I pointed out that the records about which funds could be allocated to the fight against the coronavirus do not concern the entire finances of the Polish Hunting Union, the entire finances of hunting circles. They relate exclusively to their business activity, and from our information it appears that only 5% of hunting circles in Poland are engaged in business activity. So, if we're talking about reaching for any means, let's add that it would only touch these few wheels. If the amendment tabled at the committee meeting by Senator Mroza were accepted, which is what I call for. This wheel would still have to pass a resolution that it wants to allocate these funds to the fight against the virus. Therefore, the situation you were talking about has no right to happen. Regardless of what we are discussing now, it is worth recalling that while working on hunting law in the year, if I remember correctly, 2018, we introduced such a principle that if the hunting wheel was insolvent and could not compensate for these damages, then these obligations would take over the Polish Hunting Union. So, regardless of what is written in today's law, in hunting law, it is already secured in case such a situation ever occurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u99	Thank you very much, Minister. But I asked the second question. Were there planned solutions similar to their philosophy to other organizations? Yeah, yeah. As I understand it, Minister Schreiber understood the question, and he would have just answered it if you, Senator, had endured... Thank you very much, but... Because I am polite, I try to thank anyone in this House who is so gracious that they give their opinions. Thank these people. Now, please. No thank you this time. Mr Schreiber for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u100	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! This initiative, Mrs. Minister, explained it. It was made because there was an appeal from the Supreme Council of Hunting. In the case of those other organisations that the honourable senator mentioned, we have not met with such an appeal, and therefore there are no such initiatives. I hope you're satisfied with this statement from the senator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question. There isn't, there isn't... I don't see your senator. Therefore, I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u102	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I have a brief question for Minister Schreiber. Minister, are you surprised at the Senate's minister of caution in the context of hiding records in the shield that had nothing to do with the fight against the coronavirus and the epidemic and used for political purposes? I'll use an example. We, at the last Senate meeting in good faith, tried to proceed as soon as possible with changes to the bill, introducing amendments, most of which were rejected, and yet you smuggled the possibility to transfer personal data to Post Office, referring to the shield. So, unfortunately, among the provisions of the Act called the Shield, there are records used politically. So don't be surprised that we're being very careful. You're surprised at Senator Bosacki's questions. You reject even the best and not anything to do with the amendment policy. There is a conscious and consistent obstruction of government towards the Senate. Mr. Senator, I remind you that these are questions. The question was at first. And now to Minister Patkowski. Did you understand the intention of our tax exemption amendment for public collections? We're talking about quick decisions that should be made now. It's a COVID bill, it's a shield. Do we understand each other correctly? We do not want to regulate laws concerning the functioning of the tax system in Poland today. It's about fighting COVID-19. There's a need for quick decisions here. That's why my question is, are we clear? I will develop this thread in a moment in the debate and tell you exactly what our amendment is. Does the Minister know the contents of our amendment? And finally, the third question, very short. I mean private health services, but not just private offices or family doctors, I mean large medical entities, for example. 30,000 patients each. Could one of the ministers tell me if such regulations are foreseen somewhere? I have signals from large entities, such as Zielona Góra, from a company that supports over 30,000 patients. Such medical entities, serving all of us, among others. also to fight the pandemic, but not only, because every day Poles have to treat themselves, these large entities have been left to themselves. Does the government take into account any aid that will be addressed to these entities? Voivodship hospitals, government hospitals get this kind of help, county hospitals get worse, but somehow they're doing just fine. And are these large medical entities included in the anti-COVID shield? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u103	Thank you, Senator. I remind everyone who asks the next question, that the Polish language quite precisely defines what the question is. That's one thing. Secondly, not only does Polish define what 1 minute is quite precisely. How much did I say? And since there should be no overly doubt about the concept of 1 minute as well as the concept of "questioning," I appeal to the senators to do so. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u104	I'm the one who's gonna let me answer in my best faith, not going back to what was in the previous bill, which you saw, which we talked about, and whose deletion you proposed, according to the powers of the Senate... Unfortunately, I cannot agree with this claim that good corrections are to be rejected. I'll remind the esteemed senator that if we're talking about the previous bill, it's probably 82 if my memory doesn't confuse me. The government approved 45 amendments that came out of the Senate to the Sejm at the committee meeting, and more or less so was adopted by the Sejm. That's one thing. Secondly, already those presented at the committee meeting I understand that these are not all 75 amendments to 35 amendments are positively assessed by the government. And just so there's no doubt, I'm going to say that out of those 35 out of the 7 is presented by the opposition club in the Senate, which creates a parliamentary majority. So you can't really agree with that interpretation. So that on our part there is always good will, we want to lean over all the amendments. And I never said, God forbid, and I didn't mean to say that the Senate shouldn't make any of its amendments, any of its ideas. Absolutely. As much as I can ask. And that's all I've ever done. To close this bill faster. This is, of course, your decision, but if this were to happen today, tomorrow the Sejm would have a chance to accept these records. And that's what I think. As regards the answer to the specific question about medical entities, which is something that is completely not regulated by this law, I am not prepared to give a detailed answer to this question, but we will certainly give the honourable senator such an answer, such explanations in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u105	Thank you, Minister. We enter into the minutes your commitment to provide written answers to Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's questions. I ask Senator Krzysztof Mroz to ask you a question. There isn't any either. He's gone, so go on. Since your senator isn't here, I'm asking Senator Rafał Ambrozik to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask Minister Gawin a question. Dear Minister, I would like to return to this discussion about the Pilecki Institute for a moment longer. Today's law gives the institute accounting and financial autonomy. I would like you to say a few words about how this will improve the work of the Institute during this difficult period of fighting the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As I said, the pandemic of Coronavirus found us at the time of the renovation of the headquarters, which is located on Pariser Platz in the centre of Berlin. Now we have a very difficult process of transferring the entire accounting, because it should be conducted in Berlin, and unfortunately it is not, so problems with the international mail and all these difficulties make both the branch in Berlin and the branch in Warsaw very difficult for this reason. They won't be smaller, like I said. You must be aware that the problems with the functioning of various institutions in Berlin will increase. And here I refer to the fact that there is a threefold increase in disease and the German government will rather consider, I would say, slowing this opening down, so nothing will happen that would make international mail work better. Here I was struck primarily by the situation that the finance committee, which read very clearly that there are no changes in the OSR, there is not a single change, it gives a negative opinion. So either somebody just didn't understand the substance of these records, or I can say that the evil will prevailed here. So I'm appealing to everyone again. I care what I do not hide, also that this initiative should be supported not only by the government but also by opposition environments. This is very important. This is very important for the international position of Poland, so that such institutions are supported both by the government and by the opposition. I remind you that the Goethe Institute operates in Warsaw, the Historical Institute operates. We know that the neighbouring countries and Western countries are introducing a number of amendments to help cultural institutions operate, especially those outside the country. So once again, I call on all your senators to understand this difficult situation. The Berlin Institute shouldn't stand, he should continue to act. I have already clarified all the issues relating to the tender amounts. I would just like to address one more point, perhaps by way of addition. A year ago, you adopted an amendment on PISM, i.e. the Polish Institute of International Affairs. I will quote a passage from the Act: Public procurement for the purposes of its own local branches The Institute may grant free of charge in accordance with the provisions of the Art. 66 and Article 66 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 1). 68 of the Law of 29 January 2004 - Public procurement law if the value of the public contract is less than the amounts laid down in the provisions issued pursuant to Article. Article 11 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 8 of this law. The same rules also apply to the Pilecki Institute. I hope that until the end I have resolved any doubts about this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u109	Thank you very much, Minister. We will see if you have resolved these doubts, either in the vote or during additional questions to the Minister. I take it there's no further question from the senator? Yes? Yes. Now Mr. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We're gonna rally over another shield, but I'm gonna allow myself, Minister, to take this opportunity... Because in a statement, I can't write what I'm working on as a senator, and I remind you that we're the voice of our constituents. Entrepreneurs and employees do not receive benefits from ZUS. ZUS has not paid sickness and parking benefits since February or March. We tried to contact the Kraków branch and no one answered the phone. It was the same today. Minister, there are entries under this information... There's already over 3,000 accesses to a site with information posted yesterday. I say this with care, without political cravings, especially since the whole of Poland is watching us now. There is, for example. such an entry: The child care allowance has been paid since March. Money when it wasn't, it's not. Recovery of the ZUS contribution paid for March Silence, loan 5,000 Silence. That's what backup looks like. Another example: the request for a micro-credit was to be processed within 7 days, but the information shows that 4 months will have to wait. Someone writes, "True, I'll also share this information. February's zero turnover, March's zero turnover, so the parking should not be because there is no percentage decrease, the turnover is at the same level. Well done for that interpretation. The following entry will be quoted: by March no welfare allowance is paid. I didn't get it as an employer. My employees got hit. Applications lodged at the same time. Next: There is no parking despite the application submitted by the PUE on 1 May. Well, that's a short time. And then, in connection with the answer of the ZUS that they don't have employees now: There are 10 chaplains, they have a salary of 609 thousand each year, they collect prizes... I don't know why the chaplains are in the ZUS, really, it's unimaginable. Maybe that's not true. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And the last entry at the end, from kindergarten in Krakow: 3 ladies on sick leave without paying out of the Social Security Office, another carer has not paid out since March, and 12 more people on the parking lot have not been paid out! Drama. What did our contributions go to, which as a company we pay?! Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about serious matters, this is a very important moment of our life in Poland. These people are really on the verge of despair, Minister. I don't know if you can answer the question of why this is happening, but... sorry to prolong, but I'm not performing anymore. This is an extremely painful subject. This is repeated, Minister, in hundreds and thousands of comments. Yesterday, I filed a report on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u112	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond briefly because I would also like to give the floor to the Minister of Family, Labour and Social Policy. Well, I would like to point out that I already explained in detail what it looks like today, answering a question from one of you. As far as payments are concerned, let us remind you that 28 billion has already been paid to businesses. Well, it's worth remembering. This is the first case. The second point is that, of course, we had to set up these systems. In the case of a financial shield, it took some time, but now it's going fast. As with other instruments of this type, everything is based on human matter. That's what it looks like for two reasons. Firstly, we are dealing with millions of proposals that are being submitted. Well, let's keep that in mind. Secondly, in part it is also supported by local government offices, local government units. Just so we're clear, I'm not saying it's really bad out there, and it's really good here, and it's somebody's fault. I'm just pointing out there's a huge number of people involved. Well, this situation also caused some workers to go on layoffs for various reasons. People are thrown in, shifted so that the work goes as fast as possible. All units are burdened with this kind of work. Of course, I reply every day to dozens of such messages that come to us, and often with their verification it turns out that... Well, here we are dealing with entries on the forum. Let us be aware that it looks a little different when we start to look at specific things. What often happens? It often turns out that someone filed a wrong application, forgot something. When we start to check it out, it turns out that someone didn't actually submit e.g. VAT return and this is why this has not been accepted. Someone else is behind on their contributions, on their contributions, forgot about it. You can get out of this, there are specific tabs showing what you need to do, but it happens that someone doesn't take any action at all to complete it, and it's out of the question. Someone's running for support, and they didn't show a 25% drop in revenue, even though it's needed in this mechanism. It's a series of that kind of stuff. So it's not always because something very bad or very slow works. Sometimes this is due to simple human mistakes that are made. Of course, with such a number of applications, there is no chance of sending one employee to each company to serve the company. So take all this into account, remember all this. I, of course, do not reduce these problems or the dramatic choices that many of these people are facing, but I can tell you this: I have taken dozens of interventions and it usually turned out that something has been wrong. We are thinking, as you remember, that during the work on the previous law, we proposed that all applications to the Social Security Office should be submitted electronically. At that time, you considered that this would be a bad, negative solution for people, because we would thus eliminate the possibility of submitting these requests in writing. Well, that's true, I admit it, too. It's just that the effect is that the most... I will ask the Minister to clarify, but as far as I am aware, the greatest number of such problems arise in these written proposals. Sometimes they are illegiblely filled, and very often they are filled with errors. By force, this unfortunately extends the time of examination, it is easier to consider these electronic applications. Well, maybe that's it for me, because the questions were of a general nature. I can't relate to that in detail, but if the Minister could extend it, if your marshal's consent were to do so... Because these are, of course, questions that we also struggle with every day, oh, I would say.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u113	You're welcome, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! Of course, Minister Schreiber has already told us about these problems. I can only say that for 3 million 700 000 applications which are currently filed in institutions, Social Insurance Department, county labour offices or voivodship labour offices, 52% These are paper applications. A large proportion of these proposals must go back to those concerned for improvement. If this is an electronic road, of course this road is simple. If this is a paper road, then the document must be prepared, sent, etc. The proposal that Minister Schreiber was talking about was that these requests should only be transmitted electronically. You also considered in this case in the Senate that this solution would be too early, but we are moving towards it. In this proposal there was also the issue of not sending paper information about the status of accounts, etc. Full computerisation of both the Social Insurance Institution and the county labour offices in this area would definitely facilitate this process. It should also be recalled here that the Social Insurance Institution serves almost 10 million pensioners on a daily basis. These are billions of operations that are carried out on an ongoing basis, because the Social Insurance Institution is functioning. You mentioned, for example. about sickness benefits. In the last month, the increase in the number of sickness benefits is 300%, but there is more than ever before. If we hadn't introduced e-releases, we'd be in a totally hopeless situation today. Thanks to the introduction of e-releases that make work easier in a significant way, we avoid such situations. If there's a single case that someone hasn't been paid, then something happened along the way. So that we know these things. We often also have interventions regarding the hotline. More than 400 people currently support the ZUS helpline by providing information. But the number of questions, the number of people we serve is significant. Because we're talking about people who are in the pension system, but we also have a dozen million insured people who ask different questions to the Social Security Office. So that this case is known to us, we try to solve these problems on an ongoing basis. I mean, if it's like... o parking, we now have a declaration from this morning that by the end of this week 500 000 applications will be dealt with by the Social Insurance Institution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u115	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u116	Thank you very much. I have a question for the representatives of the Ministry of Digitalization. You are shortening the term of office of the President of the Office of Electronic Communications. It should continue until 2021 and is due to end 14 days after the entry into force of the Act. I would like to ask the question: do you realise that this solution will be incompatible with the European Code of Electronic Communications, specifically with Article. 7, which provides that the head of the national regulatory authority may be revoked during his term of office only if it no longer fulfils the conditions required for the performance of the obligations laid down in national law before its appointment? This will also be incompatible with Article. 8 e-communications code. Do you know the decision of the European Court of Justice in a very similar case, judgment of 8 April 2014, when Hungary lost the case in a very similar factual and legal situation?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u117	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me. As I understand it, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u118	Yes. Minister, I've already explained here today, so maybe I'll just complete it and not repeat myself. As far as the article is concerned. The 7th European Code for Electronic Communications, which you quoted, is the article that refers precisely to those provisions that need to be introduced and which today do not work in Polish telecoms law. In fact, these are requirements which, in these regulations proposed by us, directly strengthen the independence of the regulator. 'Cause today, we have in telecom law grounds for cancellation. There are several reasons. And the European Electronic Communications Code states that Member States no longer have the freedom to define these grounds of appeal. The regulator, the head of the national regulatory authority, may be revoked only and only if it ceases to meet the conditions on which it was selected. These regulations are now being introduced. You refer to the example of the Hungarian case, which was a very different matter. At the turn of 2000 and 2001, the country we're talking about has cancelled the regulator on pretext... It was the controller responsible for the protection of personal data. It was canceled on pretext... i.e. This is justified by institutional change. One personal data protection authority was then changed to another, there were of course some nuances, and thus shortened to the elected President I do not really remember whether it was the boss or the President in that legal order I have already mentioned to you here today that it is this directive which the senator is calling for, that its rules, e.g. the procedure for the election of the President of the Office for Electronic Communications, must be in place and effective by 21 December 2020 at the latest. And no EU provision empowers a Member State to introduce legislation but to derogate its application later. Sometimes such situations occur when the EU directive itself allows it to do so, allowing for the introduction of a transitional provision. Here, the Elephant won't allow it. So our interpretation is the same as before, as I gave it to you earlier.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u119	Thank you very much, Minister. Me right now. I will allow myself to speak and ask myself a question that will come down to one thing. What's the connection between all the things you're talking about? I'm not lying. With a lot of expertise, he tells us about the fight against the coronavirus? Because I admit that I'm such a layman when it comes to digital communication, that it's very difficult for me to find not only a completely direct relationship between one and the other.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u120	Mr. Senator, I'd call it more, unfortunately, immediate need. As Minister Schreiber said here earlier, this is not the time when we can proceed over several, dozens or dozens of laws at the same time, and these regulations required implementation because of the broader context that I have already cited. But, as I understand it... I'll rewrite it in a few words. We have here this subject of auction and cancellation of the auction procedure that is currently underway. I'll leave it for now, if there's any questions, I'll explain. The consequence of the cancellation of the auction is that it is necessary to proceed to its repetition as soon as possible, which means that the process will begin any day now. The entire auction process related to the preparation of the consultation documentation is ongoing. We assume... Of course, we would like it to be over by the end of the year, but it's hard to a priori to say that this is actually going to happen. Given that, in the meantime, we need to amend the rules that I was talking to you about, we consider it unreasonable to change the position of regulator at a time when this auction process will continue. That'll be in a few months. This process, unfortunately, can take longer than when the Directive is finally implemented. Moreover, let us also take into account that the mere issue of the booking decision, i.e. the termination of the auction, such a final point, a point perceived as the end point, is in fact not the end point, because these decisions are always later complained about.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u121	Thank you very much. Senator Brejza still has an additional question, I understand.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u122	Minister, once again... Art. Paragraph 7 2: Member States shall ensure that heads of national regulatory authorities can be called off during their term of office only if they cease to fulfil the conditions required for the performance of the obligations laid down in national law prior to their appointment. There aren't any conditions here that you guys are writing down, and you're actually trying to cancel that boss. And you're here as if you're questioning my statement... Art. 8 speaks of the political independence of the President of UKE. How is this political independence to be thrown out of the Senate's role as the next Chamber, which, after all, leads to a consensus, to bet on professionals? And once again, in this article. 7 It is very clear that the President should not be dismissed on the basis of the conditions which are introduced during his term of office.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u123	Thank you, Senator. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u124	Senator, once again, the article you are quoting is an article that needs to be implemented, and we are implementing it. This article so changes the reality of what we have now, that it says that shortening the term of office... e.g. Today we have specific indications, they are not equivalent to the precepts... the precepts that a person must fulfil in order to be that regulator. And today... Well, I have one more question. I'll just finish, if you don't mind. And the article you quoted says that this directive should be implemented in such a way that such a regulator can only be cancelled if it ceases to meet any of the conditions that it met at the time of choice. Today, this reality under the 3 Telecommunication Directives that regulate the functioning of this market is different. And here, in fact... Well, maybe I'll just... You're referring to the legal situation that we're trying to implement. It's not a recipe that says here... He does not refer to the continuity of the current term, on the contrary He tells us what the terms of the directive are to look like. Thank you very much. As I understand it, Senator... One last question. Only with regard to ad vocem and the Senate... Yes, Minister, please. Yeah, 'cause it was pretty emotional. Mr. Senator suggests that eliminating the Senate kind of affects how much we have an independent organ. Well, I can't agree with that, because the determinant of the independence of any market regulator is not who can cancel it, but what situations it can be done. And these situations are very precisely described in accordance with the requirements of the European Electronic Communications Code, they are much more restrictive than those which today operate in telecommunications law. Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, it is with what we have at work: no matter when an employer can release us disciplinaryly and whether it is an employer or someone else, it is only important in what situations these conditions, e.g. As for the disciplinary, they are fulfilled. I'm talking about a discipliner here because it's such a more graphic example.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u125	Provided, Minister, that we assume that the employer is an honest man. Mr. Senator Breeza, who, I understand, wants a third time. - What do you want me to say? Ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u126	I'm just a little short. Well, the directive is being implemented, and the President of UKE must appeal, because you are implementing the directive. And have you analyze and know how many other countries in the European Union the presidents of such offices are dismissed in the same way? Do you have any knowledge that in Germany, France, Finland, the Czech Republic was also called off by the presidents in view of the need to implement this directive? I'm asking because you're calling for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u127	Thank you very much. Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u128	Senator, the European Electronic Communications Code is to be implemented within 2 years of the announcement. These two years go by on December 21st of this year. Today, the Member States, to my knowledge... Because we actually write the entire law of electronic communication in a much broader dimension. Today, all Member States are working on these final texts. It is my knowledge that no Member State has yet fully implemented the Directive. Many Member States have already raised doubts as to whether they will be able to do so within the time limit for these implementations. In this piece of legislation that we are discussing today, we have partially implemented this implementation not only in terms of the requirements for the new appointment procedure, which we have decided to implement now, but not only in a few months' time for the reasons that I have already mentioned, but also in terms of e.g. rules on consumer relations vis-à-vis the operator. It's so first... I'd call it the first step. The next one's still ahead of us, and we're gonna talk about it together, as I understand it, and we're gonna discuss it. Yeah, I guess that's... That's not what I asked. Madam Minister, in any other country... I told you... ...the national regulatory authorities are being called off, are the terms reduced? Do you have any knowledge of this? I have just told you that, to my knowledge, the Member States have not yet fully implemented the provisions of the Directive. This is the last moment. Over the last 1.5 years, Member States have been working on new regulatory texts, but these implementations have not yet been completed in full. But I also stress once again that there is no provision in our international agreements, there is no right for Member States to postpone the introduction of provisions which they are required to implement in a specific time limit set out in the directive.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u129	Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My question is addressed to a representative of the Ministry of Finance, possibly to Minister Schreiber personally. And I immediately point out, because it is, I would say, quite loosely related to the text under consideration at the moment of the bill, that I would ask for a written reply. 'Cause I'm sure there's gonna be a hard time answering them directly right now. The question is this. I would ask you to compare the financial consequences of all the shields. And we still want to work on the 4.0 shield, of course, the anticipated effects that will be, with the financial consequences that we would have to bear as a Polish country at the moment if we introduced the state of the natural disaster. The state of the natural disaster is advocated by the opposition, it is dreamy. The government, the Council of Ministers is pressured to bring such a state of disaster. Yeah, but he's involved with some threats. Even government members mentioned these threats. Also financial risks. I would therefore ask for an estimate of the possible amount that should be spent in a natural disaster because of the 2002 Act, namely the Law on the compensation of property losses resulting from the limitation during the state of extraordinary freedom and human rights and of the citizen, and, as I said, a comparison of it, if possible, with the projected effects of all the shields. We are simply dealing with 2 different approaches: the first is that we are helping, as you can, effectively but in a controlled way, and the second is that there is some kind of element. It would be good to compare these two numbers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u131	Thank you, Senator. So, as I understand it, the senator's question, asking for a written reply, is to compare the financial consequences of Matthew Moravian government's successive shields with the financial consequences that would result in an emergency state, a natural disaster... The state of natural disaster, yes, sir. Okay, I understand your question. Of course, the senator will be gracious to clarify what period of natural disaster you are referring to, because, of course, the senator realizes that when it comes to the state of natural disaster, the law determines the duration of the disaster, so the financial consequences are linked to the duration of the disaster. Then how long do you intend to take to compare this condition? Well, I'm just trying to make things easier for the government. It's about comparable terms. The point is, what would result in the application of opposition logic in the same period compared to the application of logic... So I understand that you mean what would have happened if it had been in force at the beginning... Yes, sir. It's about precision, and so we know what we're asking, you, as a senator... Thank you very much, senator. Please ask the question remotely... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sorry. First Senator Janusz Gromek. And he's preparing for the remote task of Senator Dowhan's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u132	Mr. Marshal, colleagues, before I ask a question, that's a statement first. I'm sure we have experience. With a shield of 1.0, a shield of 2.0 and now a shield 3.0 is that there are many outlays that are not accepted by us, but there are also many good ideas that we have reported, which unfortunately are rejected, and that are immediately. And that's the point: the Senate is not subject to the Prime Minister, not to the President, not to the ministries, and you are demanding and blaming us... You're saying it's our fault we're prolonging things. But it's such a digression. Even yesterday, when there was work in the Sejm on the election bill, an amendment, probably from the government or from the PiS, was to be read by the Members and voted out within three minutes. Very fast action, but it's not happening. But now the question. Answer me... Currently, under the agreement with the PZU, there is an OC insurance for employees of single-name hospitals and infectious branches. At our place, in Kołobrzeg there are 4 objects, very large, for 1 thousand 500 places, so-called. Isolation. I know their occupation isn't that big for now, but the employees are asking if there'll be insurance in these facilities as insulators. Please answer me. I have put this question in writing, but if you could get an answer today, I would be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u134	The question is not entirely related to the law, so I can only declare that we can reply in writing. I can't answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u135	Thank you very much, Minister. Please note that the Minister has undertaken to reply in writing. I ask Senator Robert Dowhan to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u136	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the Minister. In this whole shield that's so heavily distributed Shield 1.0, shield 2.0, now shield 3.0 questions arise. I'd ask for an answer, for example. That's the question. There is a company that was founded in 2019 in the sense that it registered, but did not yet employ employees, because it was just recruiting, looking for rooms, organized. And the actual activity, already strictly economic, started on 1 January 2020. And now there is no possibility of comparing neither turnover nor hiring employees to those of 2019 as the activity is actually since January. There's turnover, the company pays taxes, has dozens of employees. It's January, February, March comes, there's a breakdown. As far as I'm concerned, this company can't use the shield. Is that true, or can you just compare data only from this year?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u137	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u138	I mean... I don't think we have a complete understanding here. Of course, such a company can use all the elements of the crisis shield, especially since we have here a month-to-month comparison. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Everything is a month to a month in a given year. So if this is what you say it is, if there is some high income in February and there is a fall in March, or if there is high revenue in March, and there is a fall in April, then you can do... This is absolutely not required for the company to operate in 2019. What's more, the amendments that we also adopted in the Senate... I don't know if you remember. There's still some recent regulations, because unfortunately, as a result of some... Well, I don't want to go back to that. Something came up. But aside from that... We moved the start-up date from 1 February to 1 April. So not only companies created on January 1 but even companies created on March 30 will be And they're... It's covered by an anti-crisis shield. However, in the case of a financial shield, one of the conditions is that the company should operate from 31 December 2019 at the latest, and these companies cannot actually benefit from this mechanism.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u139	Thank you very much, Minister. Please ask the question that will be asked, as the list of Senators that lies before me shows. The last question. The question is asked by Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u140	I have a question for Minister Stanislaw Swede. A change, a very positive change in the maintenance fund, is included in the 3.0 shield, which is to increase the amount of the income criterion that entitles the fund to benefit from the amount of PLN 900. I would like to ask if we have such data, how many additional beneficiaries will be able to benefit from the maintenance fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u141	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u142	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I assure you, it's not my family, it's the convergence of names... [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...so that there's nothing cozy around here... We have known the Minister for many years and we have no doubt about it. But thank you for that question. Of course, we raise the income criterion which entitles us to use the maintenance fund up to PLN 900 and introduce an additional mechanism, so-called. zloty for zloty, i.e. if someone exceeds the income of 900 zlotys by some level, it can also benefit from this co-financing. We estimate that about 15 to 20,000 eligible parents can benefit from this maintenance fund additionally thanks to this proposal. All the more so because through other instruments we also support families, such as the 500+ family programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u143	Thank you very much, Minister. We're done asking questions to government representatives. I inform you that a government representative, Mr Schreiber, has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Magdalena Kochan, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński and Senator Janusz Gromek. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to the discussion via chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of the senators, who have participated remotely in the meeting. - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. I'm asking you to... Vadim Tyszkiewicz first. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz from room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers! I, referring to the earlier question, would like to ask once again all, and representatives of the government, and senators of various options, but to take account of our amendment, which is very important. This is an amendment of the circle of independent, non-associated: mine, Senator Kwiatkowski and Senator Staroń. She's about public gatherings. This amendment does not in any way go beyond the matter of the law. Unlike, I don't know, the 5G thing that went through there. This amendment concerns what is happening today. In the case of an ordinary legislative initiative, this would take too long. You can fold it, of course, we can do it, but it's about fighting the coronavirus. The same is true of the government projects that Minister Patkowski spoke about. It's gonna take too long. And that doesn't apply in general to the tax matters that the Minister was talking about, and the regulations... This is about fighting the coronavirus. 75 amendments were tabled at today's session. Ours is gone. There is a great request to add this amendment and not to take a negative opinion, because it is extremely important not to reject the amendments in bulk, including ours, connected with, for example, the fight against the koravirus and the local government. This is my appeal. The amendment deals with the fight against COVID-19, above all with public collections, so that, in general, this widow's penny is not paid. It's a public fundraiser for hospitals, for DPS. This isn't about some big tax exemption, even if it's a donation tax, you can do something about it, because the donation tax goes to the government, you can write an application to the tax office. I'm talking about amounts above PLN 4,000 900 and you can somehow just... He can stay with the donor, let's call it. We are primarily concerned with VAT, the purchase of public medical equipment for the fight against COVID-19. By organizing such public gatherings, we support underfunded medical services and our hospitals. So in order for you to understand this correctly, let me give you an example of this. Recently, in the last two weeks for these most important needs of the county hospital I have collected PLN 50,000. People paid 10 PLN each, 20 PLN each, 30 PLN each to make the purchase of equipment that will allow the hospital to be kept clean as a hospital. We're buying disinfection equipment, special flow lamps with ozone potential, and I don't want to go into details anymore. We cut down the $50,000, but when we buy the equipment, we have to pay 23%. VAT, i.e. out of the 50,000 we must pay you over PLN 10,000 in the form of a tribute. And yet this collection is dedicated to the fight against the coronavirus, these are the pennies collected by people, paid 10 PLN each, 20 PLN each to help our medical services fight the coronavirus. Hence the great request to Minister Patkowski to take another look at it. It's not about tax regulations, it's not about some big money. It is primarily about public collections, although, of course, this amendment also includes entities that, for example, are involved. They want to hand this equipment over to hospitals. It would be good to settle such donations. And once again, I would like to stress that if you don't want to put this in some big tax bill, limit it to the time of the fight against the coronavirus. Again, I appeal, once again: it is about money made from various kinds of collections. When we buy equipment as donors, we wouldn't want to pay for it. The state should not collect tributes from public collections for the purchase of medical equipment necessary to combat the coronavirus. Therefore, in conclusion, I appeal to both government representatives and senators, both opposition and coalitions, to take account of this amendment. She doesn't have big... She has minimal, practically no financial impact on the government, and can be a great incentive for people who pass money on to buy medical equipment. And yet this is a form of fight against the coronavirus, which is in line with the antivirus shield and will serve to combat the plague. So my big request is this: please accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u146	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I will not, of course, repeat the arguments relating to public collections, I hope so quietly, that I am directing my sympathy to government benches, that you will still think about it, because, as Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz said, these collections are being conducted now, and it is clear that we all want all of these measures to be aimed at the goal of fighting the coronavirus and supporting the health services or institutions they implement, for example. long-term care. In addition, I would also like to ask you to consider the two groups of amendments that we tabled. One, you can say, prevents disorganization, one must use such a word, the functioning of a certain piece of justice. I'm talking about appeal courts. You have proposed the possibility of moving from three to one-person warehouses. What is the problem with administrative courts? In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 46 in paragraph 19, you proposed the following wording: the President may order a secret hearing if he considers it necessary and the hearing required by the law could pose an excessive risk to the health of persons participating in it and cannot be conducted at a distance with a direct transmission of the image and sound. And most importantly, at a secret hearing in these cases, the court shall rule in a three-person formation. Today, in principle, the administrative court adjudicates at the hearing in the composition of the three-members, it follows from the law on proceedings before the administrative courts, and at a sitting in secret, 1 judge, unless the law provides otherwise. As a result of the decision of the President to refer the matter to a confidential meeting under Article. 15zzs4 3 in the wording proposed so far, there would be an automatic change in the composition of three persons responsible for the hearing to one person competent for the secret hearing. Well, I do not have to describe to you that in practice we would disorganize the work of administrative courts in this area, so here the relevant amendment will be tabled. The second block of amendments that we have prepared together with Senator Tyszkiewicz concerns matters relating to the functioning of the local government. Please note: you make decisions to ensure that there is no doubt, for me these decisions made by the government are justified in this respect and you use the various non-standard financial instruments widely. That's for example. the purchase by NBP of financial instruments, of course indirectly, debt securities of the Treasury, bonds, specially issued now, to raise funds for the fight against the koravirus; the very concept of a fund operated by PFR... I believe that times are unique and we use exceptional tools, but, ladies and gentlemen, let us also use exceptional tools in the area of local government. We will therefore propose an amendment in the context of the provisions on the adoption of budgets and the consequences of this for local government units in the context of the suspension of the expenditure rule for at least the period 2020 to 2021, of course, we are talking about the level of debt calculation. The territorial government is colliding with exactly the same problems as the government, and in practice even larger ones, because often it cannot use such non-standard tools as the government can use, what we see and what, I stress, absolutely, in no way criticize in this place, but on the contrary. We will therefore propose an amendment on the suspension of the expenditure rule carefully, for the period 2020 to 2021. And I am also right here saying how we want to do this in the context of the debt catalogue and the inclusion of debt instruments in the debt level of JST, we will apply for a delegation to the finance minister so that some financial instruments do not fall into the debt level, which will also give additional tools to local government units to effectively counter the collapse of municipal budgets. You're probably familiar with this data. I'm talking about the data of the Ministry of Finance in the context of the funds you transfer to individual units of local government. If we compare revenue from taxes a month to a month in 2019 and 2020, I'm talking about the comparison of April to April, then in the Bialystok PIT tax we have a decrease of 59%, in Bydgoszcz 58% , in Gdansk 59% , in Katowice 58% , in Cracow 60% , in Lublin 58% , in Łódź 59% , in Warsaw 59% in Wroclaw 60%. In CIT, these declines in the same cities are 11, 20, 30, 33, 45%. and in Warsaw up to 48%. Ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a dramatic situation in the local government. We absolutely need to introduce various non-standard solutions, including in the context of debt. As you can see, we have really thought very carefully about these proposals, here I have used the opinion of our experienced local governmentmen: Senator Frankiewicz, Senator Tyszkiewicz. Because if we don't start thinking about these solutions, we're about to face dramatic situations where there's no possibility for local government units to finance public tasks. I therefore highly recommend the Government's attention to these amendments. Really consider whether we are effectively solving problems All of us. Because we do not want to create any problems for the government here, on the contrary, we are looking for solutions which in this extraordinary situation will simply be beneficial, absolutely not looking at political conditions, whether it is opposition or coalition, in parliament or even at the level of local governments. Today is an exceptional situation and together we must look for solutions to these extraordinary problems, which are largely still ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. You're welcome... There isn't. Since you don't have a senator, please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. There's no... There it is. Thank you very much... Your friend said you weren't here. I told you Beata wasn't here. You're welcome, Senator. I just gave you the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u148	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry... You're welcome. Please take the floor. ...for a little fuss. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister... I see the Minister has left for a while. To be honest, I didn't ask any questions in this part of our questioning session, because de facto working on the first and second shield made us realize that you actually know the government's answer to every question before it goes down: everything is fine, everything is best, there are no problems, no problems. Then why ask these questions? So I'm going to focus on the speech. Speaking of saying that everything is okay, because, as we hear, 28 billion PLN is already in the hands of entrepreneurs, the question arises as to why this lamentation, which flows literally from all over Poland: from the north, from the east, from the west, from the south. I get a lot of information, phone calls, e-mails, text messages from people I know, and 99%. Some people I don't know. They describe their affairs, their situation. They make proposals, they wait weeks to be considered, they have no information as to whether they will be positive or negative. If it's positive, then it's waiting for the money to go into the account. It's just drama. There's really drama. And it must be remembered that in times of crisis, in times of crisis, in times of economic collapse, not only every week, but sometimes every day determines whether the company will survive or not. This is particularly the case with decisions. 'Cause, you know, like... The decision whether to fire people or maintain employment is a decision that... From the moment it was taken up in the company to the time it was realized, weeks and sometimes months passed. That's not enough, you have to secure the check-in money, and so on. If the entrepreneur knows that he will receive help, he can decide to defend himself, defend the company, defend his employment, defend his wonderful people, and on the basis of this help try to survive this crisis. But if he doesn't know if the proposal is going to be granted, and if so, when he gets the money, he's afraid of the risks and he's taking those decisions immediately. So there's a general rift here. That's why I'm announcing... I have already asked the government about this matter in the minutes. Now, back to this bill... Well, to be honest, that's the second reason I didn't ask questions, because when you read this bill, you can see that it's not a law that refers to the epidemic that we have here, or at least not to a large extent. A modest, really modest part of this law concerns helping companies and their employees, but the absolute majority of it is such a sack, because I do not want to call it a dumpster in which the government, using this legislative initiative, has pushed a lot of rules completely unrelated to saving the economy, the market or citizens. I would point out, just for example, because I am not going to mention all of them, the following provisions: art. Five Hunting Laws... I don't think there's any connection. Next: Art. 14 telecommunication law; art. 16 - the provisions of the Cinema Act; art. The Act on Personal Evidence 20; Art. The Law on Free Legal Aid, Art. 28 49 The Civil Service Act. Well, surprising. There's still an example. Article 2 62 concerning the Office for Electronic Communications. I will no longer discuss this because some of the senators asked questions about this issue by the government. There's no connection here. This is the use of the situation to stealth, from moment to moment, night to day, as it is already accepted in the PiS, to push under the motto of combating the effects of epidemics completely unrelated to it and simply to settle their interests. This is where you do your business. To be honest, out of all these laws, I would point out, for example. on the basis of the specific characteristics of Article. 16 and the Cinema Act. Well, even if you look for any connection with the epidemic, you can see that some entrepreneurs are the ones that the government wants to save at the expense of other entrepreneurs, because because of the problems in cinema, it is trying to charge other entrepreneurs with additional, new tax, so that they can keep and finance art. On this occasion I would like to say that I am absolutely solidarity with all those who are connected with this industry, with film producers, with companies that run cinemas, with artists who are involved in film production, with all those who are really suffering today, because there is a collapse, an authentic collapse. All these businesses and people need to be helped, but not at the expense of other entrepreneurs. We have such a situation, per analogy, as when the government promised support for people with disabilities and instead of budgeting for certain money for those affected by the fate of people, created the Solidarity Fund, so highly named, and taxed other people. So some people are supposed to pay for other people. Here we have the case that some companies have to pay for other companies. Well, that's not why we all, millions of Poles, pay taxes, it's not why companies pay taxes, so that they can pay extra taxes under the slogan of contributions, fees, so parataxes, extra taxes. As to the bill, however, I would like to say that not only do I have this kind of comment, but I will also make amendments. There's a few things that are important, important, and they're somehow left behind. It's weird, but it's not perfect. The first amendment I will make will concern the Article. 29. In general, it is the question of creating symmetry between public transport carried out by the PKP and that implemented by the PKS, of course, I am speaking in quotes, because many companies participate in public transport. It's about paying tolls. These reliefs were provided for railway operators, but the bus operators were forgotten. Well, they suffer the most, even because schools don't work, there is no transport to schools, and therefore bus operators are now having huge financial difficulties. I'm afraid we're gonna have an avalanche of bankruptcy. And really, you have to fix it, Minister, Dear Government. And I call for an amendment to be tabled. The next amendment I shall make concerns Article. 46 and related to the activities of the shopping galleries. It is about the imperfection of the provisions that you foresee, namely the imperfection that causes the situation of traders trading in galleries and the situation of entrepreneurs doing other activities in the same gallery, e.g. service activities. Well, that can't be right. If we have a crisis situation that affects everyone in a gallery the same way, then of course the result of a legal, contractual nature and, finally, the financial situation must be the same for everyone. So this is going to be my next amendment. Very, very important, in my opinion, amendment, another, to the article. 46... These are companies which were established after 1 January 2020. Even if you consider the solutions you provide for entrepreneurs to be good, there is, however, a deficiency here, because you require entrepreneurs to show a decrease in turnover in relation to the previous period. Well, if the company was founded this year, there's no possibility... there's no turnover history in 2019. It can't be shown. And after all, newly formed companies have even bigger problems than those that have been in operation for a long time, because they usually... When you start a company, you commit huge own money, most often also from loans, from loans. And this crisis strike affects these companies even more. I therefore ask you very much to accept an amendment which will also save all those companies that have been created this year or acted earlier, but have transformed and are now being treated as new companies. Another amendment of mine, similar in nature, will concern the article. 69, contributions to the Social Security Office. Here, to be honest, I admit, I welcome your proposals. This is finally a positive response to our demands and previous corrections to the 1.0 shield. And thanks to this, you have extended the scope of the beneficiaries of the exemption for entrepreneurs from contributions to the Social Security Office. Yeah, but you didn't notice that it's May 12th, May 13th, which is the deadline for paying contributions, and the release also applies to April. And people in April, even at the cost of not paying employees' wages, not paying for electricity, for water or even taking a loan or credit, paid these ZUS contributions. Well, if you had kept the rules that you proposed, it would have been, to put it mildly, illusory, because it would only apply to those who didn't pay, not those who paid the honest ones. Thus, if there is to be an exemption for April and May, and so provides for this provision, it must also apply to those who paid in April. And I am making an amendment in this regard. I hope, in fact, that you will find that this is the right amendment, because it simply complements the idea that you yourself have expressed in the bill. Mr. Marshal, I'm making all my amendments in writing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u149	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowicka from room 217.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u150	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! A new law on cover measures in relation to the epidemic, so-called The 3.0 disc contains many gaps and inaccuracies that require urgent completion. Here are some examples. The new law provides for an extension of the exemption from the Social Security Office for self-employed people by increasing the upper limits of earnings. They will be able to benefit from those who were active and earning more than 300% of their income. the average gross wage in 2020 and their income from this activity in February 2020 was not higher than 7 000. This is another step in helping self-employed people after a non-refundable loan and parking. Has the government forgotten about the employees on the board? Money.pl experts point to a great injustice towards employees on the board, which is protected only by the shield of the employer. As Prof. Ryszard Szarfenberg points out, it is for the employer that payments are provided for salaries, exemptions from ZUS contributions, which do not affect the salary paid or additional allowances. The shield's action ends when the employee loses his job. The only thing he'll possibly be able to count on is unemployment benefits. There are also ideas from the government to significantly reduce the protection of employees. I am convinced that it is necessary and socially desirable to increase the impact of the shield also on those who have lost their jobs, but who do not have the right to unemployment benefits. Here's another example. In the so-called. The 3.0 shield is included, among others. the possibility for the court to carry out service via ePUAP, the information portal of universal courts and e-mail. Whether the government in this case forgot lawyers, lawyers, patent attorneys and employees of the Public Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Poland, who, as stated in the article. 132 §1 of the Code of Civil Procedure - do they provide each other directly with copies of pleadings with annexes? A statement of service to the other party or of its assignment by registered mail shall be included in the pleading lodged with the court. A letter not containing that statement shall be returned without calling for the removal of that deficiency. It follows that the agent must go with a letter in person or to the post office in order to forward the consignment to the other party's representative. This situation should be taken into account in the provisions of the Act and result in the application of a similar solution as in the case of correspondence with the court. I mean ePUAP and e-mail. And another copy. It is crazy to introduce a cover law related to the outbreak of scandalous, stubborn recruitment conditions for the position of President of the Office for Electronic Communications. Until now, the head of the Telecommunications and Postal Market Supervisory Authority has appointed and cancelled the Sejm at the request of the Prime Minister, and the Senate's consent was necessary. The approval of the two chambers of parliament was intended to ensure the independence of the President of the Office for Electronic Communications. However, according to the provisions of the new law, only the Sejm is to be dealt with, so the powers of the Senate are significantly limited. The government justifies this change in the need to implement the EU Directive establishing the European Electronic Communications Code in Poland. However, it is not hard to know that the real reason for this decision is to ensure that the Senate, in which the PiS does not have a majority, does not block the election of a new president. Moreover, the removal of the Senate from the decision-making process opens the way for easier removal of the President of UKE from office. Today, this can only be done in a situation of gross violation of the law, conviction by a final judgment of the court, a ruling prohibiting management positions or the exercise of public functions, and a disease, says the article. 190 telecommunications rights. Shield 3.0 opens a catalogue, contributing to discretion in the election process. The government's intention also raises doubts about the fact that the future candidate is not expected to have the highest professional competence. Let me remind you that this is about the position of President of the Office of Electronic Communications. It is sufficient for him to have a master's degree or an equivalent degree, education and knowledge of matters belonging to the jurisdiction of the President of UKE, whatever is covered by this provision, and three years' experience in telecommunications or post positions. The Minister misses the truth, claiming that the President is elected by means of a competition. The competitions were canceled by the PiS. Today, the choice is cleverly called open competitive recruitment, facilitating the taking of high positions by so-called. Misiewicz. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To conclude, I would like to emphasise once again that although this law contains the necessary, interesting solutions to the vote, it does contain a lot of shortcomings and, even worse, procedural abuses. It is a pity that such practices are being applied in the face of the crisis caused by the outbreak of Coronavirus. Therefore, Senators of the Civic Coalition, Beata Małecka-Libera, Zygmunt Frankiewicz and Bogdan Klich, submit draft laws prepared together with the environments concerned, projects that comprehensively address the problems of health professionals, local governments and NGOs. If, as Mr. Schreiber says, the government is unable to prepare everything, the opposition does. And one more point. PiS politicians often emphasize that, after all, in the case of the previous so-called. On average, the shields accepted half of the Senate's amendments. Yes, except that all the Senate amendments adopted by the Sejm concerned only legislative errors, which proved sloppy preparation by the ruling epidemic laws. All substantive amendments to the fight against the epidemic and solutions to protect the public were rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u151	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Lamczyk from room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u152	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me start by proposing an amendment to the Coverage Act, an amendment concerning collective transport, bus transport, passenger transport. First of all, we can't wait for a 4.0 shield because those companies that drive people have dropped their turnover by 80%. They are unable to wait for a 4.0 target, and I would therefore like to make an amendment on this occasion, which I have prepared, an amendment to the article. This concerns, in particular, the Bus Act. But also to the article. 22. All I can tell you is that there are 800 million zlotys in the state budget that were to be used for so-called. PKS+. This bill didn't quite play because of the article. 22 didn't meet expectations. Therefore, the idea of raising the surcharge to the car from 1 PLN to 3 PLN is very good. Besides, it would be a chance to rebuild the so-called. transport plans. If the government doesn't do it, then... Well, in Poland there are 1 000 600 companies that provide services on the basis of pekaes. After such a deeper analysis, it turns out that they are large companies that employ 500 people, but their condition is really poor. I think half of these companies might fall, which is why it's so important to make such an amendment. Mr. Marshal, I've prepared this amendment and I'm filing it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u153	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to take the floor of Senator Hare, who participates in the sitting remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u154	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In the report of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances concerning the contested law, a request for the deletion of the article was made. 36 and Article 36 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L The proposed amendments to the Law of 20 July 2018 The proposal is justified by the need to create for universities such conditions in which diplomas and their copies will be issued efficiently and in a timely manner. At the same time, it should be pointed out that the change will not adversely affect the situation of students and graduates, as the proposed provision refers to foreign languages which are commonly used. This applies in particular to English, which is the basic language used in the international academic and scientific community, and also guarantees understanding of the diploma outside Poland. At the same time, I would like to point out that the problem with the open catalogue of foreign languages in which diplomas and Diploma Supplements may be issued has been repeatedly reported by universities. The second question is to allow the Institutes of the Łukasiewicz Research Network to use the sources of funding available to research institutes. Current wording of the article. 365 point 2a of the Law of 20 July 2018. The Law on Higher Education and Science limits the use of subsidies only to current activities, which makes it impossible to use them for example to carry out investments related to the activities of network institutes. Therefore, it is necessary to extend the catalogue of measures that may be transferred to funds for investments related to scientific activities, the maintenance of scientific apparatus, as well as the Minister's programmes. The consequence of the proposed amendment to the Law on Higher Education and Science is the need to amend the provisions of the Łukasiewicz Research Network of 21 February 2019. These changes are of a positive nature. In view of the expectations of the academic community, I request that these proposals be left to the original version. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u155	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Robert Dowhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u156	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I thank the Minister for his answer to the question. As we know, what has affected us all has happened very quickly, and in quickly written bill projects sometimes there are errors, sometimes even unintentionally some areas of activity or companies that deserve help are excluded. That's why my question was. There's a bunch of companies. I've got signals from the accounting offices, and from businessmen. They were created in 2019, which were then organized on the basis of the search for premises, the search for employees, so that they carried out such organizational activities, and the actual activity opened up e.g. 1 or 2 January 2020, then they signed contracts with employees, then they had turnover, they paid taxes, ZUS, etc. And here's the moment the place was shut down. We all have limitations because we need them to survive this difficult time. I would like to ask the Minister to lean on an amendment which, to my knowledge, Senator Szejnfeld also makes, an amendment that would allow these companies to be excluded because of this situation... They strictly have been operating since 2020. January, February, March Not since 2019, but they cannot benefit from this financial shield. I think you have to treat everyone equally and let these entities... The idea is for everyone to have a chance to apply for funding if they need it and, of course, if they meet the criteria and conditions, they will be able to receive it. Let us not cross out at the outset those companies which for various reasons made structural changes in 2019, whether they were, so to speak, in an organisational form, and actually started their activities in 2020. Hence my amendment. And I would very much ask that this detail, which may have escaped because of the many problems that occurred at that time... to clarify it, because we are ruling out a lot of companies at the moment, and I think that all entities, all companies, should be treated equally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u157	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the Senators of Szwed, Pęcherz, Brejza, Godyla and Senator Gorgon-Komor have made their speeches in the minutes, and that Senators of Senator Pociej, Bury, Kleina, Martynowski, Frankiewicz, Senator Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Senator Kwiatkowski, Senator Szejnfeld, have submitted legislative proposals in writing. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? I'm declaring a recess... Please check that all requests and submissions submitted have already been forwarded by the senators. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a recess... 15 minutes. 15, 20 minutes. Good. Till 3:00. By 3:00. Still, sorry, before recess... No, it's okay. I'm calling a 10-minute break. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 35 to 15 minutes 17]] I'm reopening the session. I would like to inform you that all requests and submissions submitted have been submitted. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? No. There's no government representative. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on specific solutions for local government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the spread of the disease caused by this virus. I would remind you that this project was presented by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 Senate Rules of Procedure. It is included in print number 114. The provisions relating to the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply when considering this draft law. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present a draft bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the work of our committee on the legislative initiative, a law on specific solutions for local government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the spread of the disease caused by this virus. The report on our committee's work is in print No 114. We ask the High House to support the proposal. At the meeting of our committee, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz submitted a request for initiative together with a draft law, a justification and a recommendation to adopt it in a quick, urgent manner, resulting from the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 Senate Rules of Procedure. This need is due to the fact that the solutions envisaged for local government are so important during the pandemic that they should be included in a special separate law. Of course, this law does not deal with all matters, but the most important problems that local governments and we, as citizens, see when we contact local authorities. I have already mentioned today during the presentation of the report on the main act of the COVID, that this law and all the previous projects are accompanied by a very precise, precise justification and a document under the name "Estimation of the effects of the regulation," i.e. an assessment of the financial, administrative, legal, etc., in accordance with the adopted procedures both in the Sejm and in the Senate. I'm going to tell you a little bit what this project contains because we've already talked about it in the first place. For the sake of reminding and ordering this knowledge, we recommend that in the draft of this law, our committee recommends adopting the following instruments of intervention. First, to enable the public administration or body performing public tasks to carry out the tasks of the municipal authority, the old-age office, the marshal's office or the public task of an entity operated or set up by local government units if the offices or bodies are unable to carry out those tasks. Secondly, allowing municipalities to use the funds collected from the authorisation fees referred to in Article. 18 and Article 18 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 181 of the Law of 26 October 1982 on sobriety education and combating alcoholism, to measures taken to limit the effects of the epidemic. Thirdly, the payment by local government units to the state budget to complement the compensatory mechanism... It's about not making a deposit. I don't know if I was specific. Fourthly, the failure to include in the income of the local government unit granted by the mayor, the mayor, the president of the city tax relief and tax relief to taxpayers affected by adverse economic consequences due to COVID-19. Fifthly, the possibility of correcting the tax base and the tax due for the supply of goods or services in the event of redemption or withdrawal of the claim. Sixthly, it is possible to suspend in whole or in part the implementation of the civil budget and to withdraw from its preparation for 2021. And seventhly, the introduction of a mechanism to supplement the subsidies of a general local government unit with a compensation part of the income lost by the entity as a result of the use of the COVID-19 speciality, as well as other restrictions and orders in connection with COVID-19, which will result in a reduction of own income. The proposed solutions will enable local government units to operate more flexiblely in the area of funding management, so that local government units can effectively take action to prevent, combat and combat COVID-19 and other infectious diseases that minimise the adverse effects of the epidemic. To conclude my speech, I would like to say that most of these ideas have been reported on the occasion of the adoption of individual targets, the first, second and third, but ultimately the senators of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, acting, of course, at the request of Senator Frankiewicz, chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, have decided that it would be better to distinguish this group of rules as those which relate to the functioning of local government. Once again, I ask you to accept our proposal, the proposed bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u159	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants have also authorized Senator Kazimierz Kleina to represent them. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, who are in room 182, to Senator Victor Durlak. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I ask that you do not follow the order of applications in the application. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the sitting will be allowed to speak alternately. This method will also be used when asking questions to a government representative and during discussions. Senator Marek Komorowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u160	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! I have questions for the rapporteur. These 3 draft laws were put on the agenda yesterday at the Senate meeting. First question: is the draft of this bill... In fact, these questions relate to all 3 draft laws, but we are considering the first one at the moment. Has the draft law been consulted with the government? That's the first question. Second question: does the bill have financial implications? If so, what will be the cost of implementing this law and what will be the source of its funding? In short, I'm asking you where to get the money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u161	Thank you, Senator. And I'm asking the Senator rapporteur for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u162	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The bill was submitted to the meeting on 6 May, which is the previous meeting of our committee. We did it just so he could be consulted with government representatives. The project was sent to the government, but we received a written reply that at this stage government representatives would not judge this initiative. In any case, they had the opportunity to read the content of the project, with all the records. It was consulted all the time, and government officials were informed about the bill. He didn't show up yesterday because, as I said, since 6 May, this information has been passed on to the ministers. The second point is the financial impact. In fact, they're going to be minimal, they're going to be only 1 point. In fact, they are difficult to estimate, but they will certainly be small, because this only concerns compensation that local authorities could receive due to the restrictions imposed on them by other laws related to COVID-19. Well, in a nutshell, you could say that. Thank you... And I would also like to say that this project, all these projects, is accompanied by an impact assessment of the regulation. All this has been provided to the senators, so the effects of this regulation and other regulations can be seen. This is a very good, well-prepared document.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u163	Thank you. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u164	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for the rapporteur, but I would also like to express my amazement at the fact that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance has decided to present a project to the Senate which does not contain a financial statement or indicate sources of funding. I would also like to correct the senator's statement. Point 6 of the OSR indicates the significant costs of implementing this law, related to the failure to download the so-called. Janosik, i.e. with the elimination of the compensatory mechanism. These amounts amount to PLN 2 billion 203 million in 2020 and PLN 2 billion 938 million in 2021. So over PLN 5 billion has been calculated here. In relation to other cost factors, the OSR was not possible to prepare. So my amazement is the fact that the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has prepared a project that contains neither sources of funding nor financial impact assessment. But I also have a question. What does that tell you? Has the committee discussed the elimination of this compensatory mechanism? Whether there was a broader discussion at the meeting on the elimination of the compensatory mechanism, so-called. Janosik? And were the interests of the municipalities which are recipients of this compensatory mechanism also taken into account? The OSR shall include details of the number of entities, the number of self-government units that pay those levies and the number of recipients. Here we are dealing with an idea in which the egoism of rich municipalities, rich local government units and the interest of smaller local authorities is ignored. Does the committee have the opinions of those smaller entities which are recipients of the compensatory mechanism? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u165	Thank you, Senator. Please, Senator Rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u166	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Our committee, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, has therefore dealt with this law, that it is authorised by the Senate Marshal to deal with the laws related to COVID-19, a pandemic of coronavirus. It was at the meeting of our committee that a supplementary draft appeared to this basic law, only so as not to introduce additional amendments to such an extensive law, difficult to analyse and read by the interested parties, so that it would be a separate document. So we say again: these 3 projects are, in practice, integral documents related to the so-called. Protective shield, shield three, in short. I want to say yes. We have asked the government to respond, on the basis of the documents that we have prepared, which the applicants have prepared and to prepare the Legislative Office, i.e. the justification, the OSR and others, to the government's position on these laws. This position has not yet been expressed and we have been told that there will be no such position at this stage. About the financial issues, the part that you asked about, about these compensatory measures, so-called. Janosik, I'm gonna say yes. In previous years, these were significant, significant amounts when the tax receipts actually stemming from the share of PIT and CIT were large and significant. Unfortunately, these measures have been significantly reduced, e.g. in March, April in many municipalities it is a drop of 40% and paradoxically, even in these largest municipalities, these declines are the largest, i.e. the funds paid under the so-called. Janosik would be much lower than in previous years and would not exist in many municipalities at all. Finally, from the financial point of view of the effects of the regulation, these amounts balance out because the amounts paid by those municipalities that have surplus or surplus amounts are in balance with those that the municipalities receive from other local authorities. Of course, it is always possible to discuss whether these municipalities, which will have more, should continue to pay what amount, etc. As the senator knows perfectly well, the so-called question. Janoskowa's fee has been the subject of much discussion and debate in the Ministry of Finance for many years, which is still working on a new system of funding for local governments, but also among local governments themselves. This proposal is a proposal for a pandemic.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u167	Thank you, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I have a question about the scope of this bill. We are talking about local government units, but we are not talking about the metropolitan union or the associations of municipalities, inter-city communities or district-city unions. Did you simply forget about this, or does the scope of this law not concern the scope of the tasks performed or the money received by these unions? I mean, in particular, art. Article 2 and Article 2 7.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u169	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, it was our conscious decision to consider that only local governments, i.e. local government, district government, and voivodeship, are covered by this law. We thought that there was one metropolitan union, Silesia, and its financial situation for today, well, is better than other local government units. It's even influential. Although, of course, he probably would've wanted backup anyway. It is possible that in the future we will have to think about it, seeing how the situation in Silesia is developing. But for today, it was a conscious decision that the law should apply only to those classic localities.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u171	Thank you. Senator Stanisław Ożog.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u172	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. High Izbo! I will refer to this point, to this element mentioned here by Senator Bierecki. I tried to count it, realizing that the proceeds from PIT in some municipalities, the richer ones... This will be particularly visible and particularly burdensome. It is difficult to say at what level the implementation will be on a yearly basis. It may be that this will be a loss of revenue within the range of 30% and 40%. Nevertheless, the introduction of this principle, the waiver of practically the compensatory system, the reversal of this principle, also according to my calculations and on the basis of data on which certainly you, colleagues, resisted, will almost impossible to accomplish your own tasks by more than 400, probably around 417.420 local units this year. Especially in this case, when it comes to the levelling system, which has been a problem for many, many years. Practically since 2003, since the income law on JST, on the basis of which the financing of local government is practically ongoing, it has been, and will be, until this changes, a big problem. That must be considered in particular. Because so far the highest investor, the biggest investor in Poland is local government units. If local authorities stop investing, small, small and larger, it will be difficult to talk about economic development, to stimulate the economic sphere in the country as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u173	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Senator rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u174	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, actually with everything you've said, with what you've said here, I have to agree. In fact, it must be said that this levelling system has already been inefficient. And I'm not saying that this is the perfect solution, the one we've proposed here. We're at the beginning of the legislative road. While this is a document prepared by the committee and by the senators of experts in this matter, it seems to me that at a later stage of the work on this law it can be clarified in such a way that it can actually introduce into it such records as would really help those municipalities that are financially weaker. I'm pretty sure that's the way it's supposed to be. It's just that at this stage, as senators, members of the committee I think even the entire Senate We are not able to prepare such an amendment, because it must de facto be an initiative of the Ministry of Finance. The Minister of Finance must also carry out such an analysis in order to determine this level of support for those less prosperous communities. Is that possible at this stage? It is difficult to say today because we do not know what the actual tax revenue will be. Today it is clear that at the end of March, April these influences to local governments are, unfortunately, very small. And paradoxically, according to the analyses and information that reach us, the largest loss has these communities the richest or largest, perhaps not the richest. But they have the smallest income. And it may turn out that what we're talking about here would still be, so to speak, an empty accounting operation. So, as I say, we're open to different solutions here. We'll also be waiting... Not at this stage, because it cannot be done today, it would be difficult to ask the Minister of Finance to prepare an answer in this matter. But, I think, while working in the Sejm and later, when this bill comes back to us, it will also be possible to refine this record. I think we're all... Besides, there is never any division or doubt in the budget committee on such matters. We are able to make such records so that they are absolutely helpful to local governments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u175	Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u176	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Dear Senator, we do not know the costs, nor do we know the sources of funding. I have two questions for you. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński asked about the subject matter of the bill, and I would like to ask, because in print No 114 I found that you refer to 2 states, i.e. the state of epidemiological danger and epidemic... Recently, at this Senate meeting, you have called on the government to introduce a state of natural disaster. Why do they not apply here at all, that these proposals, when it comes to local government units... Why aren't you referring to this? And the second question is: where and why is the call for the liquidation of the civil budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u177	Thank you. Thank you very much. Have you completed the senator's question? Yeah, yeah. Good. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u178	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It is clear that we do not refer to the state of natural disaster, to other states of emergency which the government may introduce... The draft law does not concern this at all, so it would be absolutely unacceptable and inappropriate to include such records in such a project concerning local governments. This is a government decision based on statutory powers, including the Constitution, so we didn't want to go into this area. Today, during the debate on the 3.0 shield, I asked once again Minister Schreiber about the financial impact of the 3.0 shield on the state budget. And even the minister responsible for shield 3 and other shields was unable to give the actual, accurate, precise amount of what the cost of this bill would be. All he said was that this shield three is the cost. approx. PLN 3 billion, but additional costs will result from other regulations, etc., etc., that it was difficult to clarify. So now I'm not saying that the charges - I don't know why we didn't exactly count it here. We can't precisely count it, it's an obvious matter. We're talking about the general size, about the fact that these are small resources. I don't want to put it in amounts because most of the records don't have any financial implications. Of course, it's still going to be done precisely... And the issue of the civil budget. Well, here's the thing. After all, we are all in favour of the civil budget, during the times of the Civic Platform and PSL governments, the civic budget was disseminated and shown as a very good thing. Only today we have a different situation, today citizens' budgets They are very good locally, in the settlements, in the villages they are needed, these are good projects It doesn't have to be, so to speak, in force, i.e. Local authorities do not need to be legally obliged to do so. If you can afford it, if it works well, if it serves the good of the local community, then this budget can be run, but it would not be mandatory, as a duty of the local government But only for that time. We believe that he should be, should even be expanded, but today we have an emergency situation and therefore we need to redirect this effort to these areas, to this particular impact in the fight against the coronavirus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u179	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u180	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question in the context of earlier questions, in which it seems that the adoption of this legislative proposal may cause some costs. I get the feeling that the questioners don't really know the rules of law. I will ask Senator Kleina whether it is true that if the municipality loses its liquidity, it is, in accordance with the laws governing the operation of local government units and public finance laws, that municipality in the first step asks for a loan to the state budget due to the loss of financial liquidity, then, of course, for the implementation of the recovery plan and, in addition, for me to say... It is very often that this obligation on the state budget is imposed even in the context of certain corrective actions, i.e. the appointment of a Commissioner in the municipality by the voivode. I'm asking you this because... And I'll add the second question. Is it true that today, if we look at the influences of the local government, it will turn out that we are dealing with such a situation... Let's compare the income from PIT, let's say in Katowice from January 2019 to January this year. In the case of PIT it was 97% revenue. In February 110% more, and already in April 58%. With CIT in January Katowice had 233% compared to January 2019, but Okay, here's the In April, it was 20%. revenue, i.e. 1/5 in relation to revenue in April 2019. I mean, like, you know, like, you know, like, you know, like, I wouldn't happen to ask that, because I'm sure Senator Stanisław Ożóg, Senator Alicia Zając, Senator Mieczysław Golba, Senator Zdzisław Pupa or Senator Janina Sagatowska, I'm talking about senators from Podkarpacie. Rzeszów had only 60% of his PIT when he compared April to April, and with CIT 35% attention. When it comes to the system, is it true what I said, and when it comes to financial data, is it true too?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u181	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u182	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The first question I would answer is this: this is exactly the procedure and this is the system of dealing with financial risks or even errors made by individual municipalities. In practice, unfortunately, it is that, ultimately, the state takes on the burden of functioning of this municipality if it is not doing well. Examples of how such problems have been dealt with in the past, we have and can be discussed, but it is as if it is not the subject of our discussion today. That's exactly what I said about tax revenue. Mr. Senator presented very precise calculations of these cities from Silesia, Katowice and Rzeszów, but this situation unfortunately affects many or all municipalities today. And I just want to say in this context that we're kind of idealizing at all this... actually today we're pushing everything down to this problem of the crisis caused by coronavirus. And I don't know if you remember that at the time we adopted the budget, and that was before, so to speak, a pandemic or at the very beginning of it, we pointed out that this year would not be as perfect as the finance minister said it would be. At that time, in January, in February, inflation was already at 4.5%. That's why the influence is a little bigger... The decline in GDP. ...because inflation always increases tax revenues. There was a decline in GDP. We are today... not just us, but everyone is hiding behind this crisis caused by Coronavirus, but unfortunately these marks, this as if the beginning of all this was earlier. And that was clearly seen in December last November. The statistics have not yet shown all this so fully, but it has already clearly shown that the trend is unfortunately different. Coronavirus filled and increased these problems. Thus, in thinking about this crisis of Coronavirus, it must not be forgotten that the beginnings of financial problems were earlier. And the January influences were... Of course, this is always a bit of a forgery picture, because there are still the results of the accounts from previous years, but you can clearly see what the decline is. It's out of the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u183	Thank you, Senator. And I give the floor to Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to request an answer to my question as to whether this draft law was consulted with representatives, with organisations bringing together these smaller local governments. That's the question I asked, and I didn't get that kind of information. It seems to me that this project, and in particular this provision on the liquidation of Janosik, is such a record, a lobbyist project, planted by these larger cities, who are trying to get rid of this cost at all costs... I'm sorry, this expense. I'm asking you to answer that question. Second thing. Does the committee have any information that a municipality is currently losing liquidity? And has the committee also examined the rules on how to measure this liquidity, the moment when the municipality lost liquidity? The Public Finance Act provides for remedies in a situation where the municipality loses liquidity, as Senator Kwiatkowski has just mentioned, so the application at the moment of changes in the model of financing of local governments through the liquidation of Janosik, with the justification that there is a threat of liquidity loss by certain local authorities, seems to completely ignore those provisions which already exist and which provide for appropriate action in the event of liquidity loss. Has the committee taken into account the reference of the provisions proposed to the existing provisions in the context of the justification presented? And the third case. I would like to make a request to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance that this project should be supplemented by these key data in this situation where the law does not indicate the sources of funding or estimates of costs, which has been disclosed in this discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u185	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u186	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the bill was prepared in cooperation with local governments, organizations, the Rural Union, the Polish City Union, so this consultation was. We have also asked for an opinion from the government, but we have not received an answer. Financial issues... The compensatory amount that affects local governments from the state budget, mainly from the state budget, is So far, as it's going to be this year, that's what no one can say today. Approximately PLN 13 billion. This compensatory amount, which comes from the so-called. Janosik, it was about PLN 2 billion 300 million in previous years, when these revenues were significantly higher. So you can clearly see that the influences from the so-called. Janosik is a small part of the money that affects local governments. This is the first case. If those questions you're asking about the financial consequences, so fully, all the other things... If we had consistently implemented this on the occasion of the laws that have been adopted recently, we could not have accepted any of these laws, because any question about the effect on the state budget is being disposed of by the Minister of Finance. And actually today we do not know whether the state budget is functioning at all, because it is said that it seems to be PLN 200 billion, i.e. amounts many times greater than formally possible... But we're not discussing that for now. We are talking about how to prepare these solutions, which will be the best solutions for local governments. This is the beginning of the legislative path and it seems to me that if the government wants to get involved in this operation, then a good bill may come out, expected by local authorities, expected by local communities. I think this is the way we should take this bill. It is expected by local authorities and does not storm the rules, does not storm public finances, there are no expectations of any additional contributions from the state budget, rather it is an attempt to support state action in those areas where tasks should be carried out at local level. That's the intention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u187	Thank you, Senator. Senator Stanisław Gogacz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u188	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, rapporteur, in the article. 2 of this law is presented the hypothesis, the assumption of incapacity to perform tasks during an epidemic period. The point is that hypothetically it is assumed that institutions such as the municipal office, the old-age office, the Marshal's office or an entity run, as I understand it, by a local government unit or an entity created by a local government unit may be unable to perform tasks. I would like to ask you about the reasons that made you assume that in an epidemic state there may be situations such as those that the institutions that I mentioned here or the bodies created by these institutions may not be able to carry out their tasks. Do you know any specific situations, specific examples, or maybe any measurements have been carried out, any expertise that would indicate that an office or a local government unit may be in an epidemic state unable to perform its tasks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u189	Thank you, Senator. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! That record we're proposing here, that's the article. 2 (2) One, it's basically almost entirely from shield two. Well, unfortunately, the problem with these shields is that even the most interested often do not know the records in these shields. I return every shield on the occasion. The first, second, third note that there, in such a single document, is simply written everything. So that's the record that's transferred from the shield, so that's the government proposal that's in this article. This is in the event that the boards or simply the individual authorities of the local government will not be able to function and will have to be replaced by others. We add in this document only that it is done at the request of the proper uncle, the mayor, the president and the city. Nothing else. So our proposal is not to be an arbitrary decision by the voivode or the minister, but to be a proposal by the local government to allow another authority to carry out tasks that could potentially be suspended in the event of an epidemic in this particular office, in this city, in this municipality, etc., with regard to bodies. So this is the record transferred from the shield.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u191	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? There's no government... There's no government representative. There were representatives at the previous point, now they're gone. Now I have a question for Senator Bierecki, or... Mr. Senator... Yes, I can hear you. This bill will be sent back to the committee. Does your proposal concern what is to happen anyway, or is it a formal request to refer the proposal back to the committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u192	This is a formal request to refer us to the committee again so that we can continue to read it again. Not after the second reading, but during the second reading, they directed it to the committee so that the committee could complete the current request for critical data, which is missing in the explanatory memorandum, and perhaps also rethink some of the proposals and make an auto-correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u193	Senator Klein?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u194	Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask your marshal to set a deadline for the committee to prepare the report and to carry out a third reading at this Senate meeting, especially if amendments appear. And I think the amendments to this project are. So the point is to set a deadline, to oblige the committee to prepare a report so that today's meeting can still take place.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u195	Okay, but first there's Senator Bierecki's motion... Thank you. ...to be reassigned to the committee. I object. This proposal by Senator Bierecki must therefore be put to the vote. And then we'll move on to Senator Kleina's motion. I hereby declare a recess until 16.10. Then we shall hold a vote on Senator Bierecki's motion. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 59 to 16 minutes 10]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u196	I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, before the break, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki made a formal request to refer the project to which we are proceeding... And let me remind you that we are looking at a point: the second reading of the draft law on specific solutions for local government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS CoV-2 infection and the spread of the disease caused by this virus. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki filed a formal motion to direct... Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry to take your word for it. Please speak a little louder. Okay? I can't hear you... You can't hear much in room 217. Can't you hear me in room 217? Speak louder. Now can you hear me in room 217? Better, a little better. Yeah, it's better. Better, good. Then I'll speak up. I wanted to speak out loud. But the state in room 217 knows what's going on, right? We know, we know. Do you understand? Do I have to repeat what proposal we are voting on? Good. Does the secretary in room 217 confirm that? Did you hear everything? Well, maybe you shouldn't answer the secretary, but somebody else who's in there. Because I understand that the secretary... We know everything in Room 182. In room 182, right? And in room 217? In room 217, too, I've already informed you. Thank you. In that case, we can take the vote calmly. I think people logged on to computers as well. We therefore proceed with the vote on Senator Grzegorz Bierecki's motion to refer this draft law to the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? We'll get the results back in a minute. The vote is over. Please report the results. Where's the score? Oh, here. Okay, I can see that. 83 Senators voted, 36 for, 47 against. [[Voting No 29]] The motion was rejected. I'm opening a discussion. Has anyone signed up for the vote? Janusz Bladder. Senator Janusz Błucherz will be the first to speak in the discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u197	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On 2 March of this year in the Senate building, in room 217, we held a meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration, on which we discussed the following topic: "The state of local finances" diagnosis and challenges. Several dozens of representatives of local, district and voivodship authorities from all over the country took part in the conference in addition to the members of the committee. There were also representatives of local associations, including the Association of Polish Cities, the Union of Rural Municipalities of Poland and the Union of Polish Metropolises, as well as experts dealing with, scientifically and practically, financial problems of local self-government units. Several lectures were listened to, among others. on the state of finances of local government units, the adequacy of funding sources to the scope of the tasks of these entities, the importance of the stability of the financial supply of the local government. Then there was a very interesting discussion, and at the end there were legislative initiatives with which to present in order to improve the sustainability of local government finances in Poland. These included: the principles of compensation for losses from PIT due to legal changes introduced by the government, as well as development subsidies and thus VAT on local government investment and environmental subsidies. March 10th this year In the Senate of Poland, during a special press conference, the heads of local government spoke about celebrating the anniversary of the 30th anniversary of local government in Poland and paid tribute to those who formed independent local government in our country. It was in the Senate 30 years ago that a law on territorial self-government was prepared, which changed Polish reality, restoring the right of Poles to co-decision about their local and then regional communities. The Local Government Act from 30 years ago is a dare to claim that it is one of the best legal solutions of the free period of Poland. It was the local government that changed unrecognizable villages, towns, cities or metropolises. At this press conference, the Senator, the chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, and at the same time President of the Polish Cities Association Zygmunt Frankiewicz said: "We have reason to be proud. The local government has been well prepared, has good foundations for ownership, income and legal protection, and we value it very much. But even then there were voices about current local problems concerning attempts to centralize or worsen the finances of local government units. Even then, there was a feeling of anxiety associated with the coronavirus. However, none of the present expected that life with the pandemic would move so quickly and would bring so many unimaginable changes in our country. Since this conference, we have not only forgotten about celebrating the 30th anniversary of the local government, whose celebrations were planned in Warsaw between 27 and 30 May this year, but we have also forgotten many other issues, focusing on solving the problems of fighting the pandemic. Before the Senate of the Republic of Poland at this meeting, the next important legislative decisions to help many social groups who have suffered most in the fight against the coronavirus and may suffer in the near future, but today we also need to look closely at the problems faced by local governments, especially in municipalities and districts. Both the two previous anti-crisis shields and the third that has been under investigation for a week in the High House do not contain solutions for assisting municipalities or counties in connection with lost revenues and increased costs resulting from the assigned further tasks resulting from the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic. It is our great duty, using the legislative initiative of the Republic of Poland, to propose legal solutions which will not allow the liquidity of certain local governments to be lost, and will allow everyone to carry out their own and commissioned tasks, because they must and should be implemented regardless of the risks that each day brings. Of which loss of income of local government units and of what costs Are we talking about the effects of the pandemic? In different local authorities, these may be different income losses and various increased costs. Towns on the rights of the county, in addition to municipal tasks, also carry out district tasks and are often host bodies for county hospitals, labour offices, cultural institutions, secondary schools or upper secondary schools, social services houses, etc. Municipal authorities will not carry out certain tasks, so the amount of expenditure associated with the pandemic situation will be different. But a large number of local governments have already adopted resolutions on the exemption from taxes on land property, buildings and buildings associated with the business of those entrepreneurs whose liquidity has deteriorated due to the coronavirus, in order to meet the expectations of entrepreneurs. Resolutions may also concern deferment of payment deadlines and, where justified, remission of the entire tax. Lost revenue may be significant. I would like to give an example of Kalisz, the city on the rights of the district. In the budget for 2020 there is planned income from property tax for the amount of PLN 65 million. If you talk only about tax on business people, the monthly revenue lost to the city budget may amount to about PLN 5 million. Another lost income is e.g. the withdrawal by the municipalities of civil-law claims from those entities whose liquidity has deteriorated due to COVID-19 and which so request. However, the greatest impact on the lost income of local government units has and will have a lower share of income tax revenues from individuals and corporate income tax revenues in the coming months. The data provided to the municipalities on 10 May this year is appalling. This was already mentioned today, among others. In Senator Kwiatkowski's speech. The calculations show that PIT revenues for April 2020 compared to April 2019 are even more than 40% lower, and in large cities, which has also been shown today, can be more than 50% lower. The situation could even get worse. I will give another example of Kalisz, where PIT revenues for April 2019 amounted to more than PLN 18 million and for April 2020. Only PLN 10 million 600 thousand, i.e. by 42% less. The increased costs of operating municipalities as a result of the anti-COVID rules concern inter alia. local collective transport, reception of waste from quarantine or isolation sites, as well as expenditure incurred in helping hospitals or social services homes to purchase medical equipment or other measures to protect medical and home workers working with people infected with the coronavirus. The city of Kalisz has already spent more than PLN 2 million on this type of activity, and it is not an organ running hospitals, because it is the marshal of the Wielkopolska Voivodeship. To the District Labour Office in Kalisz But I think that other employment offices in Poland, too, could meet the requirements, had to be helped financially to purchase, among others. computer equipment, which needs much more for operation, as well as training additional staff or replacing absent workers who are involved, among others. the payment of funds to traders in shield 1.0 or 2.0. Analyzing the situation of local governments I'll focus on Kalisz. It is also important to keep in mind, for example. the critical financial situation of the companies. Kalisz Aquapark or Kalisz City Sports Club, which completely suspended recreational and sports activities, therefore have no income and yet generate costs. It can be said that by now there are no more about a million zlotys. It is also possible to mention the critical situation of a budget establishment, which is the municipal administration of residential buildings, which significantly reduced rents in commercial premises, in order to help entrepreneurs, thereby reducing their own income and has to bear many costs, including the payment of certain amounts to local communities. These entities are Kalisz's municipal and local authorities, but also the local authorities of many other cities and municipalities must finally cope with the maintenance during the pandemic period. From a rather brief analysis of the functioning of local governments in a pandemic age, one conclusion is made in terms of their loss of income and the increase in operating costs. Both municipalities and powiats cannot remain without state aid and legal solutions that enable them to carry out their own tasks on the one hand... Time's up, isn't it? Already? ...as defined in the municipal or district government laws and, on the other hand, to carry out additional tasks resulting from the pandemic. In this situation, proposed by the majority of the Senate legislative solutions for local governments... Mr. Senator, you're very close to the conclusion because it's been ten minutes. I'll vote for them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u198	Thank you very much. You fit in your own time. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project we are working on seems to be a project, a project that takes up the proposed solutions a little prematurely. The figures on the decline in local government revenues will actually be in July, and they will show us the impact of this epidemic situation and the expenditure that local governments have undoubtedly incurred in combating this epidemic, or the impact of reducing revenues to local budgets. This project, so quickly presented before we see the data, in my opinion, is, as I mentioned in the questions addressed to the President, an attempt to lobbyist action in the interests of large, rich local governments, which, through this project, are primarily trying to get rid of the obligation to bring the so-called. It's janosic. The government project, which since mid-April has been being proceded, prepared, talks about moving Janosik's payments, so that the payments for May and June can be implemented in the second half of the year, which will help local authorities maintain liquidity, undoubtedly disturbed by the extraordinary event that was the freezing of the economy and the national quarantine that we have been dealing with. This project, as I mentioned, is of a lobbyist nature and is trying to realize a certain dream of these wealthy local governments, in order to keep funds in a selfish way, this surplus, which they benefit from because of placing a large, significant part of their business activity, carried out throughout Poland, but whose beneficiaries due to the headquarters of enterprises are to a large extent these local governments, wealthy local authorities. So here we have a lobbyist proposal for such a rapid response and in principle a change of the rules in force, a rapid change of the rules in force, without a proper assessment of the impact of regulation, without reliable data that would illustrate the real situation, and at the same time a complete omission of existing mechanisms of support for local governments, which may be in the situation periodically... I would like to remind you that the Public Finance Act makes it possible for local government units to receive aid in a situation of liquidity loss. But for me, this proposal is a very interesting voice in the discussion on the model of funding for self-government units. Undoubtedly everyone agrees that this change of model should take place, but this change of model should not take place without changing the structure and number, the type of tasks, the size of tasks undertaken by the local government. As a reminder, I would like to remind you that during the previous crisis, the Italians were able to liquidate around 700 self-government units and this did not have a significant impact on the well-being of the citizens in Italy. I can even say that I risk saying that in many cases this has not been noticed, however important it was for the finances of the Italian State. Thus, making accidental changes, suddenly under the influence of the emotions caused by the emergency situation that we now have, should not take place, and changes to the rules should be linked, as I said, with changes in the position, the size of the tasks of the local government, as well as the real control of the spending of funds by local authorities. I would like to remind you that in the previous term, this was initiated by the amendment of the Regional Financial Chambers Act and was intended to strengthen the supervisory functions of the Financial Chambers. So much for the proposal to eliminate the Janosik and lobbyist proposal of rich local governments to get rid of the cost of payouts or contributions to poor local governments, i.e. to get rid of the obligation of solidarity of local governments. I am also surprised by the content of this bill and, in fact, unjustified in the draft attack on the functioning of civil budgets, carried out by the Senators of the Civic Coalition. It's a suspension of civil budgets, giving up their preparation even for next year, 2021, with such justification that it would be caused by the effects of fighting COVID... Well, citizens, citizens, voters of local government have ideas, they can add a lot to the actions of the local community in terms of combating the consequences of this terrible epidemic that we are dealing with. The citizens' budget is also a way of communicating with citizens, and through this budget citizens can offer local governments very good, important solutions, and undoubtedly necessary. So I wouldn't limit it here... I wouldn't eliminate the civil budget, I would rather set new targets for the civil budget, so as to direct it to tasks that are important to combat the effects of the epidemic. I have called for this project to be sent back to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, even at second reading, to complement or rethink some of the solutions. Unfortunately, this proposal was not supported by the Senate majority. In my opinion, this project is poorly prepared, it is premature, and in fact it is intended only to fulfil the role of lobbyist project for rich local governments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u200	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zbigniew Frankiewicz will now speak. Zygmunt. Zygmunt Frankiewicz. Excuse me, Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u201	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! I'll try to convince you that this bill doesn't have any of the qualities that my previous speaker was talking about. I'll start with where Senator Bierecki ended up. Namely, Mr. Senator was talking about civic budgets, about giving the residents the opportunity to select projects that would fight against Coronavirus. I inform you that the civil budget procedure, according to the regulations adopted, lasts about 1 year and cannot be used in any way. In addition, this civic budget is only carried out in cities on the rights of powiats. At the moment, the tasks selected much earlier are being carried out and the current priorities have nothing to do with it, nothing at all. In one of the cities e.g. There was a vote to build a few million Indian villages. Now, under conditions like this, it sounds like a joke. You gotta give it a chance. But it will not be an obligation to not all that was previously chosen under other conditions, to be realized now. I think it's pretty obvious. Now is not the time to implement a very absorbing, huge procedure, which also involves many people's contacts among themselves, the budget procedure for the next year. Now about this lobbyist action, the wealthy local governments in which it flows, and the janosik payout. It's been said, but I'll say it again. The levelling system in Poland has not been working for a long time or it is working very badly. There are changes prepared, but they are not implemented. The World Bank was working on it, it was close to the agreement, it is not implemented. Right now, it's just a transfer of money with bad consequences. Because in the vast majority of the payments to this system are made by the state budget, that is about 13 billion, from the contributions of all units in total, while the Mazowieckie voivodship gives an overwhelming majority of the total amount that we are talking about is less than 2 billion 300 million. And the calculation of these contributions is based on historical data about two years ago. As a result, now those who would pay and have no income And it is very possible that these richer cities will have proportionally much greater losses, because this is the structure of their income, they will have to pay something that after a long time will prove to be unwarranted, i.e.. He'll come out of the calculations that they shouldn't have paid, but now they'll have to pay. It doesn't make any sense, and right now it's gonna make it harder for the cities... But not only cities, because there are also very rich rural communities. In the top ten of the richest units of local government are not the largest cities, only small municipalities It's just for your knowledge. In these proposals there is e.g. non-payment of VAT from unearned revenues. If the municipality releases its entrepreneurs who are affected by the effects of the fight against Coronavirus, e.g. from the rent or from any taxes or charges, it must pay VAT on these unearned revenues. This is a transfer between public budgets: from self-government to central budget. In this compensation subsidy there are two cases listed, I think it is evident, because the loss of income is directly due to the introduction of the flares associated with the pandemic. It's transportation, and for example. the collection of waste from persons who are subject to quarantine. These additional tasks financed by the municipalities, there are costs, this should be compensated. And how is it constructed? This isn't a budget jump this year. For the first time, this is in the penultimate article of this draft law, which is intended to operate in 2021. This is to be done on the basis of a regulation issued by the Minister of Finance after agreement with the Joint Government and Local Government Commission and this is optional. So it's hard to tell. is what this will have the effect of e.g. next year for the budget, because it is optional: it may happen, but it does not have to, so that the actual impact on the central budget finances will be small. The remaining points of this project are irrelevant to public finances. This is, for example. offset. Instead of carrying out non-priority tasks financed by income for alcohol sales permits... instead of spending on what was previously planned... Well, it is possible to spend on what is necessary at the moment, e.g. To fight the coronavirus. And it's not premature. At the moment the situation of the municipalities is tragic, because already at the beginning of this year, when there was no pandemic, about half of the local government units had a big problem with budget shortcoming. It was difficult to adopt budgets without losing the proceeds that we are talking about now. This law certainly does not apply to wealthy self-governments. The conclusions that gave rise to the creation of this project were influenced by quite small municipalities, from small cities. The Association of Polish Cities, which had the greatest part in the creation of this project, has more than 330 cities, and we do not have so many big cities. In Poland, the vast majority are small cities. Our data is reliable, I think it's more up-to-date than those that are in the Ministry of Finance, because we use surveys to which cities, municipalities respond immediately, and we have hundreds of such answers. On this basis, we can certainly tell you about the situation in local governments. Once liquidity is lost, it will be too late for such reactions. The State is very rarely involved in improving the liquidity lost by local government units. These are occasional cases. In Italy, 700 local government units were liquidated as a result of the crisis. In Poland it can be similar. I am the only one who would prefer it if we were discussing such changes in the public administration system, so that it would be on other grounds, so that this would not be a financial elimination due to pandemics. In my opinion, this is a completely unacceptable procedure. This is neither a sudden change nor an emergency. And if this one is incidental, what about these three anti-COVID laws? After all, they are all incidental and they precisely differentiate the treatment of different elements of the state, i.e. on the one hand, individuals that are subordinate to government administration, on the other hand those that are subject to local government administration. The latter no longer have any cover, and there are companies that provide social services on a daily basis. If they fall, the people will really have a problem. When the trash or water is not delivered continuously, it will certainly be visible. The control of the regional clearing house is still in place. All resolutions of the Municipal Councils, which are of a financial nature, shall be examined by the Regional Audit Chambers. The rest of the surveillance is on the side of the voivodships from the legal side. And I think it's working. There was no need for change here. That is why I am very obliged to the President that this proposal to amend the Regional Financial Chambers Act has vetoed. I am in favour of solidarity, but I am reasonable, for changing the compensatory system, because the one that is at the moment does not work at all. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u202	Thank you, Senator. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, Room 182. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u203	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I will start with such an important statement that local governments are part of public administration, but they are not part of government administration. They had a relationship with each other since 1990. It just so happens that it's a thirty-year-old. The different partners on the government side were different in understanding their needs, but I admit that as far away from solidarity and mutual empathy as we have been today over the past 30 years. I would like to point out once again that local governments are part of the public administration, but not the government, also because, by reversing this logic, not so much as the thesis, it is important to remember that the failure of local governments in the fight against the coronavirus, financial failure, economic failure, economic failure, will also be a failure of the public administration. For this reason, it is extremely important today that government and local government cooperate, respect each other, accept the variety of conditions in which it came to work in this pandemic, and draw certain rapid conclusions on an ongoing basis, because we all need this very much. Society, to put it simply. Second thing, very important to me. I would like to protest against the definition of the current proposal as a lobbyist proposal. It's not a lobbyist proposal. I support this project, but I have not spoken to the President of Warsaw, nor to the President of Poznań, nor to the President of Wrocław on this subject. I know what their working conditions are, I know what expectations are, but I also know, I'm aware It does not need to be discussed in order to draw attention to this. The costs currently borne by local authorities. If you look at the water production Nothing's changing. If you look at the waste water collection Nothing's changing. But even if we look at collective communication, the conditions for the provision of public services in this matter, we can undoubtedly see that local governments are currently suffering considerable losses, and their efforts are inadequate to the financial possibilities of today. Education. It is important to remember that decisions are made in Warsaw. These are decisions about closing daycare, kindergartens, primary schools, secondary schools, moving eighth grade exams or high school exams. But it must also be remembered that in connection with the closing of schools, kindergartens, crèches of self-governments are in a particular situation, organizational, logistical, financial, but also medical situation. They bear specific costs. In the city, between 500 thousand and 600 thousand inhabitants for epidemic protection alone, i.e. masks and disinfectants, it is from about PLN 5 million to PLN 7 million per month. We must also remember that local authorities are most often the first address to which the owner of the restaurant, beauty salon and hairdresser reaches. By the time he gets to the government with his needs, his concerns, it'll be months. He's getting to self-government immediately. And not with grudges, just at the very beginning, just with a question. The question is, when will he be able to return to work, under what conditions, under what circumstances, how to prepare for this? How are local governments supposed to respond properly to all these needs if there is no communication, no real communication, between this part of public administration and government administration? Another element, extremely important. I would like to point out that this legal solution only applies to pandemic times. There is no proposal here for the elimination of Janosik or the destruction of mechanisms built over the years and in some sense proven. This is an attempt to respond to a specific situation, under specific conditions, with a specific intention, above all with the intention that local governments will not be in such a difficult situation that the consequences of this will relate to all other elements of activity, including those of a government nature. Today it is very important to draw attention to the fact that the built mechanisms for financing certain areas of responsibility, the activities of local governments also affect the responsibility of governments. I'll go back to education. Today, education, as a result of changes over the last 30 years, is financed by the municipality's own resources, e.g. certain investments, some allowances or parts of salaries, construction of new facilities In the second part by educational subsidy, but in the third part by the introduced participation of local governments in PIT income. This income, mentioned by me recently, dropped in April, from 20 percent to 20 percent. In some cases, 50%. Therefore, there is also a serious financial gap for the tasks performed by the local government for education administration, teachers themselves, schools themselves. Now for a moment about government activity. Please note that today we are making another decision regarding the act in relation to the COVID third, will be the fourth It has serious financial consequences, and so far the state budget has not been revised. The budget of the state on which the various institutions are based should also be based on local authorities, hoping for appropriate, adequate assistance in this area. They can't count on it. We cannot determine the conditions or scale of the possible aid granted to local governments to cover all the losses incurred by government decisions, not by the decisions of the local authorities. Another very important element: the predictability of certain decisions. Please note that in COVID 1... the previous shield included government powers almost alive transferred from the Act on Natural Disaster. A very complicated mechanism for introducing new competences and new regulations, which are, in a sense, specifically included in the Constitution and then in the Act on the State of the Natural Disaster, has been applied. If it had been introduced, local authorities would not have been financially easier, but it would have been easier from the point of view of logistics and predictability of events. The decision to open crèches and kindergartens surprised local authorities. They needed a week, a whole week to prepare for this operation. The result of this operation is a 20% participation of children in pre-school activities, which is only 20% on average, and the costs borne by local authorities are in most cases 100%. It is important that the adequacy of certain actions, the possibility of predicting them include such consultation with local authorities, so that they can better prepare for this and bear, in short, lower costs. Today, local governments, including the Senate, are burdened by a government team to sabotage elections. I have to say, it's very absurd. It must be borne in mind that today local governments are the only or extremely important negative beneficiary for all these circumstances connected with the election campaign. They just behaved responsibly. The Sejm replaced the President, the Prime Minister, with regard to the debate and discussion on the so-called Law. correspondence, in order to adopt a decision, extremely difficult, rejecting this law due to its illogical nature, building up a situation of non-transparency in elections, unequal opportunities of candidates, due to high, unjustified costs and the impossibility of holding elections in secret clauses. Those weren't easy decisions. Today there is again pressure, as I suspect, on local governments and the Senate, in extraordinary time rigor, in extraordinary mode, in short, to tap another bullshit. The local governments and the Senate will probably behave similarly in this matter, which is responsible. But I am already pointing out today that local governments are now part of public administration, not government administration, and their failure will be a failure of a part of public administration, which cannot be achieved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u204	Thank you very much, Senator. Now, please take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej. I can't hear you... And all those who worked... Everything's fine, Mr. Senator, okay. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u205	Yes? Excuse me. I would like to thank all those who worked on this bill, because unlike all earlier projects, PiS is the first project that doesn't side-swipe any political, in my opinion, swindlers that are aiming at some other project, e.g. electoral priorities. This is a project that helps. Senator Bierecki, who provoked me to speak, said it was a lobbyist project. Mr Senator, many times in this House have been said, also your colleagues have said that one of the things that we have done in the last 30 years is self-government. In turn, you show in your speech that this is not a common opinion among the politicians of Law and Justice and that their idea of helping local governments seems to be alien. Of course, you're using a certain pick to say that it's about the richest ones, etc., etc., but that's in fact your reasoning. You're attacking the idea of helping local governments at all. I understand and know for a long time that this is an idea for Poland of the formation that you represent, an idea that everything should be centralised. and that in fact 10 to 20 people in the country make all the decisions. And it seems to me that there was so much satisfaction in what I heard and what you said, and there was a desire for local governments to show that they couldn't handle it, and to move all the decisions higher up. You said it was such a project for a slippery, very fast, which doesn't give you a chance to think about it. And you asked me to take him back to committee. Well, I would like to remind you of the four years of the previous term when the laws that passed in the Sejm in four hours, in five hours, and you have always voted for them, also in favour of sitting without any thought, on the same night, on these laws. And now that we've been investigating this case for seven days, it's too fast for you. I would like to tell you that I did not see you vote against when only a month ago he came from the Sejm, after a few hours of debate, a bill concerning... a bill concerning... which was also contested by representatives of the majority, i.e. by Gowin and his entire formation. You didn't protest that we got a project that was prepared on our knees and that wasn't really feasible at all. Today, either he's arrived or he'll arrive tomorrow, another project that went through the Sejm in four hours. I hope that since the senator is so concerned about some things being worked out, he will vote with all of us against such proceedings in the Seym which are extremely serious and which lead to constitutional changes in elections for a few days or a few weeks before these elections. Therefore, I believe that attacking an idea as serious as Senator Bierecki did must be in some way also in the perspective of other elections. The election in the sense of proceding laws and other... Again, it took at least a week to work on this project, not four hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u206	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll start my short speech by listening to the hadko, Mr. Senator Pociej, when you're using erotic procedures and instead of speaking ad rem, says ad personam. I'd ask you to stop practicing because she's worthy of patronage, but she's not, I think, worthy of a senator. So I would ask you to refrain from this kind of personal tours when we are talking about a very important matter, because we are talking about the finances of local governments. And we're talking about a poorly prepared bill that's premature, and it's not because only seven days have worked on it. He is premature because there is no relevant data yet, which will only be published in July and then we will be able to assess the scale of the problems of local finances that are heightened by the epidemic situation. After all, some local governments have had problems before. In 2019 we had a whole series of alarmist statements by the presidents of the big cities who claimed that their finances were on the brink of ruin. Koronavirus, the epidemic situation has actually sharpened the picture, the actual picture of the finances of some local governments, because I am not talking about all local governments here, but I am talking about those who have not maintained proper financial discipline. They did not maintain this financial discipline in a situation where we had a huge economic situation. Not only did the state budget benefit from this economic situation and tax sealing, but also the local authorities. Compared to 2015 in 2019, the local government had 26 billion PLN of own income, of which 20 billion PLN was derived from increased revenues from PIT and CIT. In percentage terms, between 2015 and 2019 the revenues of local government units from PIT increased by 46% and from CIT by 35%. When you look at different cities, for comparison... Warsaw had nearly PLN 2 billion more income from PIT and CIT, which represented an increase of 37%, Kraków Growth, Gdansk, 32% height. There were huge increases in tax revenues, and at the same time there was a difficult financial situation of local governments, which was reported by local governments in 2019 and which was now sharpened by the koravirus. This certainly requires careful legislative work, it requires reflection on changing the rules for the financing of local governments. This change of rules is proposed by this draft law, which is premature, incidental and fragmented. He should not be accepted by the Senate, the Senate, who is the guardian of local governments, who has given great credit for building self-government in Poland. This bill in the version proposed by the committee is shameful to the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u208	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u209	Very briefly. Mr. Senator, in terms of ad personam arguments, you made an argument ad personam, ad group, speaking of lobbyists. If the senator had only focused on the substance, which you also called me to do, I probably wouldn't have spoken at all. However, you have focused on political assessments. I don't think it's necessary. Is the project premature? Mr. Senator, the reaction of the law and justice government to coritotus has been delayed at least a month. The intelligence data and warnings and what was happening in China and Europe were ignored. Of course, it can be said that several other countries have also reacted in a delayed way, but you will admit that we will not be excavating, since we are already speaking Latin, in this discussion only and only that others have screwed up the job. I think that in all the reactions that were often inadequate... Within 3 or 4 weeks, there's a 3.0 shield. This is a duplication of how we react in the previous term to the Supreme Court laws. So there's seven amendments. Instead of working with the opposition for a while at such a difficult time, gather a common opinion... With the third shield, the hole, because these shields are holes, the opposition just took the glove and decided to help the government where the government doesn't see any problems. Saying something's too early... I prefer reactions too early than too late and reactive, as it is so far with these I'm gonna say it again. With holes in the shields. If they weren't holes, they wouldn't have to be updated for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u210	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u211	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have been working in the local government for 20 years since 1990, which is why I would like to say a few words about everything that we are talking about here, what we are presenting, but also partly about what the reactions to this bill are. Ladies and gentlemen, just as it has fallen, the local government is one of the pillars of public administration. As the senator said, this is also one of the most important players in the investment market. In small towns this is actually the main element of infrastructure and investment development, entrepreneurship development. So every initiative of the Polish Senate, the House from which the municipal government law came out, because I will remind you that it was from this House that the law on local government came out... Therefore, today, when practically speaking, I do not see the interest of the Polish authorities, the Polish government, in terms of cooperation with local governments... During the break I asked Mr. Zygmunt Frankiewicz, who is very involved in matters concerning the functioning of the local government, and it turns out that, except for perhaps one meeting that the Prime Minister has done with the presidents of large cities... In fact, it can be said that when it comes to matters relating to Coronavirus activities in Polish local governments, there is no such debate and discussion. And already saying that this project is premature is a complete misunderstanding. So when are we supposed to report him? July? August? Then in the case of some local governments, maybe there will be no reason for it. That is why I encourage the Senators of Law and Justice: if you do not love local governments Some of them, of course, I'd like to point out that at least try to understand them a little bit. This is an important pillar of public administration in terms of transport, water supply, waste disposal, pollution, science, education. After all, all these services on behalf of the Polish state for all Polish residents are done by local governments. Even assuming we're wrong about the local government's financial business and give too much to local governments... So what's it gonna do? Better quality and wider offer of municipal services in the Polish country. That's why I'm asking the Senators of Law and Justice: if you don't love them, at least... I would like you to at least understand the needs of Polish local governments. I also want to say that since 1990 there has actually been no government, which, as far as I know, is what's going on in the whole world. As a rule, the government as the central body of each country is trying to transfer as much as possible... as little money as possible. We have spoken to local authorities and it turns out that this is the trend in many European countries. But what's happening now with regard to self-government... Well, I have to say it. Maybe I'm wrong, but I sense that the state is talking about law and justice, you approach local governments as a political enemy. And yet the local government is our friend, who carries out a full range of public services. Self-government is we We decide who we choose for him, what tasks he carries out. I encourage fairness and encourage you to use such data, especially on finance, which reflect the real situation in local governments. After all, if someone says what was the income of local governments in 2018, 2019.. Compared to what is now, it is a gap. I think that Senator Frankiewicz and other local government officials who have signed up will show what concerns the current situation in Polish local governments, also as regards the financial side. I'm talking to a few local governments, and from what I've been told, it's such a difficult situation when it comes to budgeting. And it was before the coronavirus about the functioning of local governments, it was not yet in the history of local governments. And if someone is telling me now that these are lobbyist actions, and they add that it's premature... We do not understand each other completely when it comes to the situation in which Polish self-governments are in today's situation. Polish self-governments, like every pawn shop in Poland today providing any service, whether it's a private service or a public service, need support Legal, organisational or small financial support, which is included in this draft law. Therefore, I make a request to your marshal: as the Chamber from which the law on the functioning of local governments came out, let's vote... This is not a bill that ruins public finances, which overcharges public finances. These are things that can help local governments in their current functioning. And that is why I would like to ask you to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u212	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Frankiewicz. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u213	Thank you very much. We do not give this law to local governments, there is great restraint in these proposals, because the government realizes that the whole state is in huge trouble. If the revenue of the state budget is lost due to unpaid VAT on income which the local authorities have not achieved because they have released e.g. entrepreneurs with fees or rent, that, I think, will be as fair and natural as possible. There are practically the same records in this proposal. I think that's all I described in my first statement, but from what I hear, I think I have to do at least a part of it. You can't wait until July, just like you can't wait for another so-called entrepreneurs. A shield. After all, we were forced here to work on anti-COVID laws practically overnight, because everything was urgent. Why weren't there local governments in this? There I have records expected by local governments or are so marginal that they do not actually affect the situation in these local governments. Self-governments should be included in this, because this is part of the state, and this is the part that is very intensely fighting this pandemic. For example, let us symbolically show the local authorities that we support them in this. This bill, this project is symbolic, there is no significant financial assistance here, which needs to be said precisely. And it does not burden the state budget, and certainly not really and not this year. I was talking about the fact that there are municipal companies, there are theatres, there are swimming pools that financially depress these local governments, because costs are increased, and income is reduced. According to a survey conducted by these local authorities in hundreds of municipalities That's what I said. The average loss in April of PIT revenue, which is one of the main sources of revenue, amounts to around 40% , with reliefs, i.e. reduced other income, and rising costs. Well, you can imagine... a government that can't print money. I'm talking shortcuts. He's gotta get into trouble. There are no situations where these problems come from a lack of financial discipline on a large scale. Yes, in 2019 local authorities alarmed I've been talking about it myself. Their financial situation is rapidly deteriorating. That's when the income was reduced. Earlier, PIT revenues grew, not like Senator Bierecki said... From memory, I can give you quite accurate data. It was approx. 15,5 billion of PIT more in the years 2015.2019, that is growth. At the same time, costs, mainly wages, which also resulted in this increase in PIT income, were about 19 billion. The balance was negative, i.e. the financial situation of local governments was not improving at the time, it was only deteriorating. It's been documented many times. I'm here for all the data. The virus has sharpened all problems, including the state budget, including other countries. This is a global problem. In local governments it is similar and there is no reason to burden local governments with some responsibility for the deterioration of the financial situation. It's completely unwarranted. If this continues, it will sink all the local governments one by one, maybe the stronger ones. economically later. No government can survive this. And this is part of the state. Local governments take current policies towards them as anti-government. Let us show that such movements are possible, such actions that this self-government will support in a difficult situation, and will not depress it yet by some resensitivity or prejudice. In this anti-COVID bill, which we are investigating today, unfortunately there are also no records for which local authorities have requested. This initiative is the only real aid that gives opportunities, while at the same time imposing a negligible burden on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u214	Thank you very much, Senator. You are asking Senator Grzegorz Bierecki to correct this. I'm giving you the floor. Please, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki in correction mode, up to a maximum of 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In corrigendum mode. I would like to correct the data presented during the meeting, this debate. Senators use data for April, data on the revenue of local governments for April. I would like to correct this and inform the High Senate that this difference in influence in April this year compared to April last year results from the decision to postpone the settlement date of the PIT tax from the end of April at the end of May. Therefore, my calls to assess the real situation of local governments in July when we have real data. April data are somewhat affected by this decision to change the settlement date of the PIT tax. Finally, the second thing I would like to correct and send my fellow senators back to the OSR attached to this bill. Senator Frankiewicz said this bill doesn't charge the budget. In the OSR, there is information that the lack of Janosk's contribution in 2020 and 2021 will require an increase of approximately 18 and 20% from the budget. This information can be found directly in the OSR annexed to this Act. So these are the two things I wanted to correct. I think the most important point is that the assessment of the state of the local government's finances on the basis of April data is affected by the shift in PIT settlement from the end of April to the end of May. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. As a correction.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u216	As a correction, Senator Frankiewicz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u217	I'll start with the second case. I've explained that making payments for Janosik is based on history. And yes, the effect that the senator was talking about is going to happen, but we're predicting that later in the settlement, it's going to have a practically zero effect. In fact, in April, this income from PIT may be disturbed because of the reasons that the senator was talking about, but the scale of this will not significantly change the sound of this data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz speaks in the discussion. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u219	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I do not hide the fact that I was not to speak because I think my colleague Senator Frankiewicz quite accurately explained the whole matter, but I decided to speak after Senator Bierecki's statement. I'm afraid I can't accept many things. I can't accept the fact that the bill is poorly prepared. In fact, many people have been working on this bill for weeks. The Association of Polish Cities, the Union of Polish Metropolises and many other organizations took part in this. You can't say that this bill is poorly prepared. These are weeks of work for people who are really very strong in local governments. You were talking about acute problems due to Coronavirus. Of course I do. Those problems are sharpened out there, but you can't generalize. I have repeatedly repeated as a self-government officer with a lot of experience, with the enormous fact that it is impossible, please, to measure all self-governments in one measure or in one case, which happened somewhere there, to draw too hasty conclusions. Please bear in mind that in Poland we have nearly 2 000 500 local governments, and each local government is different. If we case 1, 2 or even 10 local governments try to transfer to all local governments, it will be unfair and unjustified. Please bear in mind that the finances of local governments depend to a large extent on the mechanisms that operate directly in our small homelands. I can't agree with the senator's statement in any way, with the propaganda saying that sealing the system caused a lot more money to appear suddenly in our local governments. No, Mr. Senator. That's the money we worked out. I wish it didn't sound too personal, but I'm gonna say it literally. If I built, I built, with my associates, 25 factories that gave 5,000 jobs, then not as a result of sealing the system increased the income of my municipality, but as a result of what we worked out. People went to work, factories started paying taxes, and these revenues started growing with us. And talking all the time about the fact that it's because of the tax system's sealing, it's illegal and unfair. To a minimum, yes. But the increase in income is mainly linked to our work in these small homelands, these are our income earned by us. And don't take advantage of the success of local governments in this respect. And it's important to remember that if that income started to grow... They started growing because Poland was not in ruins in 2015. That's not true. Poland was developing Let's take such a big thought shortcut. At least since 2004, when we entered the European Union. Then this dynamic development began. And we were at the height of the country's development just before the appearance of Coronavirus. Such development in Poland's history has not yet been achieved. Indeed, local authorities and the Polish state benefited from this. They all benefited, but we worked for this development for many, many years. Always remember that. Speaking of how our income has increased, we need to remember that our costs have also increased. It's not like we're just growing income. Somewhere we need to find a ratio between revenue and rising costs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are working on another shield. The allegation that our proposal is underdeveloped is so unfair that all these previous proposals of the local government have not been taken into account at all. There was no suggestion that the local government, the salt of the earth on which our lives are going, would somehow be supported by this shield. It was only this initiative that caused us to finally deal with self-government, which plays a gigantic role in the functioning of the state and in the fight against the coronavirus. The question should be asked: who is really fighting this direct fight against the coronavirus? The state or, above all, the local authorities? It is the county and voivodship hospitals that are the places where all these problems are actually concentrated and where the fight against the koravirus is actually taking place. We, acting in local governments, are looking for money, we're doing public gatherings, we're getting funds, we're buying masks, aprons, medical equipment, so that these hospitals can work somehow. It's happening in the local government. If the government starts to run out of money, the consequences will indeed be mourned. Finally, I would like to make you aware of how this works more or less. Please bear in mind that if the investment in the local government is stopped, everyone will lose it. It will lose its self-government and lose its Polish state. I will follow the good example of the current government. It's rare for me to praise this current government, but let's just say it's the only time I'm gonna do it. I mean, the law on the Self-Government Road Fund. This is a good program, implemented for many years. Here belong the bows and the previous governments, and the present government, which is implementing this programme related to the Self-Government Roads Fund. But please bear in mind that investment in the local government also translates into revenue to the State Treasury. If we are implementing local government investments, we are paying VAT. I'm not talking about the fact that it generates more taxes. Well, it's obviously a question of working for people, it's a question of making money, it's a question of paying taxes. Let me give you a very simple example, and I want you to remember it. If the government gives 1 million PLN, e.g. for the construction of the road, and the local government with its money Well, the local government has to have some financial opportunities to finance these routes. It adds another million, and that's 2 million. Glory be to the government for this million, but we pay more than 400 thousand zlotys of VAT plus indirect taxes. So it's not like the government paid us a million dollars. The government added a plus minus 400,000. Well, I won't go into the details, but that's how roads are built, that's how investments are made, that's how factories are built that make people work. I'm not gonna dwell on it because it's really urgent. I ask all of you and on the left, and on the right side of the political scene, to take self-government seriously, because this is the salt of this land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll be done in a minute. This is the last time I'm running this session as a vice marshal. I'd like to thank you, as the senator just said, and the left side, and the right side. But we're gonna see each other, we're gonna work together. I'm hoping for good cooperation. Thank you. [[Applause]] And now Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u221	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I didn't want to speak, but I listened in my room to all these different speeches by my colleagues from the Civic Platform, and I listened to Senator Tyszkiewicz while I was in the room. And I noticed that there are still two thesis that are unfortunately untrue. The first argument is that the Law and Justice or the present government is against local governments. That's not true. I could say they're some self-government people. Not local governments, just some local governments They're against the government. And there could be many examples of how self-government works. It's a very small part, but some very loud... They don't even hide it in the media. Nevertheless, neither the government nor the Law and Justice were ever against local governments. That's one thing. And the second point is... Senator Tyszkiewicz is kind of her embodiment in expressing that if anything good happens in the local government, then of course It's 100% due to local government, right? You have such a manner of saying: me, me, me, me, me, me, me... It was because of me that everything worked well there. [[Talking in the O.R.]] But when things start to get bad, it's the government's fault. And then these self-government guys go and ask the government for backup. Senator, since for the past few years, first for the government Prime Minister Beata Szydło, and now Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's income from PIT taxes is growing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, I didn't interrupt you. Since the influence is growing, this is the result of the government's economic policy, sir. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The government's economic policy. No. I can understand... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...that as a result more or... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, I have almost finished my lead, but I ask that you continue to interrupt the senator and allow me to speak freely. The senator absolutely had the opportunity to do so, so that you would also very much like to allow the senator to concentrate and speak to him. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u223	Thank you. And that's, Mr. Senator, well, objective fact, isn't it? There's a growing revenue to the state budget. And given that local governments have a share of taxes, PIT or CIT, if these revenues are growing, your share is growing. I understand that there are different self-governments. If, let's assume, some president, mayor or mayor is better and can create locally better conditions for the development of entrepreneurship and companies is more, then... Well, he's the beneficiary. I mean, real estate tax, right? That's when it grows. But PIT and CIT are centrally charged taxes. And this is the result of a good economic policy of this, Mr. Senator, the government, the rule of the United Right. And you know, you can't... You can statistically show how the proceeds from PIT, with CIT, with VAT increase. And that's what kept these budgets growing. It's because you're getting more and more of these budgets. I'm talking to you as a self-government officer a few months ago. The costs have increased... Well, some costs were justified, some were unjustified, it's already a matter of balance. At some point he was, for example. A very strong increase in employment in local governments, which we think is what I'm going to say... No government in this construction had any influence on it. But let's leave it. Not in local governments... Next line. Do you need any support for local governments today in connection with the coronavirus? Of course you do. Like the need for support for entrepreneurs, as well as the need for support for small, large and medium-sized companies, NGOs and other entities. Only above all, it must be agreed with the government. Because, Mr. Senator, that money in the government isn't just made up. They have to be created, you probably have to indebte the state, right? We have such a good situation that this ridiculed one also in this room, adopted a few weeks ago, well, a few weeks ago, the budget with zero deficits is saving us today. Because what the Prime Minister said today Even today in the sense that today That the budget deficit will grow rapidly... Well, we have to say that we owe ourselves, so that there's support for entrepreneurs, for local governments and for other entities. But why can we do this to ourselves, Senator? Because we have adopted, also in this House, the votes of the Senators of Law and Justice, a budget with zero deficits. And today we can increase this deficit. Let us remember one thing: we do not have the freedom they have, for example. The Italians or the French, because we have incorporated into the Public Finance Act and the Constitution a limitation to what level we can debt to GDP, and that is 60%. Well, the Italians have 100%. The French... We can't do that, every government has to stick to what's in the Public Finance Act, which is over 55%. We must have a balanced budget, and at 60% are already de facto very serious constitutional requirements. And because it was as it was from this perspective, the discretion of the rulers and discretion of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, that he came to the Sejm with a budget with zero deficits, the first time since 1990, when it happened with this coronavirus as it happened. No one could have predicted that. We are now in debt to the state and can save businesses, small, medium and large. And we can, probably also in the perspective of a few months, offer some help to local governments, because I agree that local governments will also need this help. And the whole concept of some self-governments who signed a declaration about how they didn't need you, how they could handle it... They're coming in today asking for help from the state. Coronavirus has shown, among others, One thing is that it is worth betting on public health, and how much private health care has grown. We need to learn certain lessons from this and I hope that over the coming years we will draw such conclusions that we need a strong country, we need a responsible state and we need a strong public health service. I see what's going on, I see that private clinics have shut down, shut down, and everything goes to those public hospitals. In this context, for example... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Of course, the coronavirus sharpened the various kinds of problems that Senator Bierecki was talking about here in the context of finance, and these problems were already much, much earlier. I am convinced that soon there will be some solution, which will be a gesture of support for Polish local governments. Let us remember that there are a lot of these local governments, each level of local government has slightly different tasks, has different income, needs different support, otherwise carries out certain public tasks. I agree that local governments are needed, and over the past 30 years we have given them a very large share of power, only that, ladies and gentlemen, it must be very, very thoughtful, because again it will have to pay the government, the budget of the state, Mr. Senator. Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'll tell you what, you're gonna have to have that money... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, sir, it's just that if we give the local government, somebody else is gonna be gone. And you'd want to give this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this. And when you say where the income comes from, suddenly there's some kind of weird silence... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...I didn't hear you make any income offers. I think so. Let's wait for the government's initiative to support local governments. I agree on one thing: yes, local governments will need support. I'm sure there will be such support, very thoughtful, in a few, several weeks, when we have full information about the situation. Yes? It's still hard for me to tell what kind of formula it's going to be, but it's gonna show up. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u224	Thank you very much, Senator. Would you like to answer, or... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, this is Senator Tyszkiewicz. If you were mentioned by name. He was. He was.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I do not hide that when I listen to these statements, I am a little shocked, knowing that you had a relationship with the local government, too. I heard. Yes? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Exactly. I apologize for my manners of speaking. I'm doing this on purpose. Of course, I didn't build the factory, I'm deliberately rephrasing it a little bit. What I'm talking about is that in local government, we make a team, this is a team of people who are working on it. I was president, I would speak in the past tense, I had a deputy, I had men. I say "Jay" in the sense of "team," it's to understand me well. I'm speaking figuratively to show you, self-government, so be it. I don't know how to explain it. We understand. Mr. Senator, you're right that in local governments this money has begun to arrive. When I started my self-government career, my budget in the small town was PLN 50 million. When I left, it was PLN 250 million. What do you think, 200 million government gave me? One or another, because governments, of course, were changing one by one. It's me... Again, I'm sorry about the jazz. We're the ones who made the money. You say the government gave it. And where did the government get that money? My dear Lord, if you'll excuse me. I'm sorry again. We built a way to the zone, armed this zone, borrowed loans, took loans, built a road, attracted an investor, built a factory in this factory, people found a job... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...this factory started paying taxes, property taxes, PIT taxes, people who found jobs there... So who worked out this budget revenue? Government? No, we in local governments have earned this income, of course indirectly. This fight is totally... Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. No, no, I just want to clarify that your speech, very interestingly, is treated as five-minute, not ad vocem, just... Good. I can fit in five minutes, yeah. But please, because your speech accepted the formula of the speech, so I would very much ask you to continue with that awareness. Thank you very much. Good. Well, I'm gonna be done. Once again, I am very sorry that we in this Chamber have to share, we think and we say that you say, "We, the government," we are trying to defend the interests of the local government here... For me, as an inexperienced parliamentarian, it is sad, because the government is us, the government also represents us, so the division of the "my" is not allowed. And finally, I'm just going to refer to the proposal for our amendment to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, no one has made any other proposal. We did it first. Appreciate it. There's a lot of experienced local governmentmen here. If you have any comments Let's make it better. Let's play on the same team, and let's not split into "myths" and "myths." And let's not do politics or rhetoric that we're the ones who made the money because we sealed VAT. That's not true. We, you and I, have earned revenue for the state budget, and let's divide it fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u226	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u227	I'd like to ask the senator... because I don't see Senator Mr. Frost... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no, not provocatively... Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! And I particularly address our colleague from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. No, because he'll have the right to a replica. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I don't name names. Don't tell me. Gentlemen of the Senators, I would very much like to ask you to remain fundamental. Please note that the Senator of Law and Justice presented a vision of the state, the Polish state under the rule of Law and Justice. What's that vision look like? What's the problem? The government, the government's gonna pay, they're gonna add money. I want to tell you about the thesis that Margaret Thatcher once gave: the government doesn't have any money if it wants to give something to someone, it's gonna take it away from you, remember that, citizen. So let's not say the government gave. Drop the rhetoric. The government manages our money. And I would like you, as a member of the budget and finance committee, to understand this first and foremost. Now when it comes to the fact that there are opponents of giving, they give you, and they don't give you... Mr. Senator, please don't speak to the government that they come, that they used to play smart guys because they had money, and now there's a problem. Today, the Republic has a problem. Self-government is an integral part of the Polish state, it performs a serious public function, and it comes and says: let's solve this problem together. This has been said, for the next time I will repeat: 3 shields, 0 in local governments. And who performs public functions in the Polish state, a few of these functions? I won't tell you, because I'm no longer in local governments, but the local authorities who came here have performed public functions for many years. And the success of Poland and each country always depends on good cooperation between local governments and governments. And now you're saying this: this government likes, or maybe even loves self-governments. I'll say thank you for such love, be different. Respect is not something declarative, and the feeling of self-government is more important than the facts. And you can quote different facts, but today the feeling in the vast majority of local governments is that the government of law and justice is anti-government. We may disagree here, but that's the truth, and that's the reality. And now about the development and role of the government, of every government in economic development. I want you to know Because you're a young man, you may not remember... Do you know why there was intense economic development in Italy in the 1970s? Because every three months, governments have changed, which have dealt with elections and other things, and they have not had time to interfere with entrepreneurship and local governments. And these 2 pillars have pulled very hard on the Italian economy. It wasn't until the populists came to power that the crisis started again. So please remember: the foundation of the state is not a government that holds everything in its hand and distributes it like Bokassa, only this is a government that does not engage, which creates a favor that develops and supports these areas. You are accusing the senator of saying that he is saying this, and you are saying this: the government thanks to its own politics, i.e. not the activity of Poles, only the government created such a benevolent situation that there was economic development all over the world. By 2015 the ruins, since 2015 is the government, starting with Mrs. Beata Szydło... And I'd like to ask who caused excessive cost increases, excessive inflation. It's not the government anymore, it's the entrepreneurs, it's the local governments. So, in your statements, please keep the measure based on knowledge and on what is being said during the debate. We do not address the Polish government, especially the Polish parliament: Polish local governments need so much and so much money. After all, Senator Tyszkiewicz and Senator Frankiewicz are talking about changing the way things work. And if there is such a situation, which will result from the analysis that it will be necessary to add some money to Polish local governments, then I think about what Senator Ożóg has already said that Polish local governments will allocate it to operate and invest in public service for their residents. This is where the senator gave me this idea... It's five minutes, Mr. Senator. I'm almost done. Senator Tyszkiewicz. In 2018, employment in local governments fell by nearly 3,000 people and in the same year it grew by nearly 3,000 people in government administration. I'd like to say, Mr. Marshal, the last sentence is over. If we're gonna go through the arguments you're making, which I quoted with Senator Tyszkiewicz, then... One can say yes, Mr Senator: thanks to the fact that Mr Morawiecki's great government has made a balanced budget... What I'm saying is that 16 countries have been saving money for five years, a budget surplus, knowing that one day there will be a problem. It's seven years skinny and seven years fat. What have you guys been doing for five years? You were giving away your money, giving away money for noble purposes, such as social policy, but you were also giving away money for employment growth, for the most numerous government, for yours, starting with bonuses, etc. Therefore, we need to have a measure of good and bad things. Just pointing out that self-government is the bad one that doesn't deserve the bill we're proposing is a bad thing. And that's why I'm asking you to have more respect for the local government.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u228	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanislaw Ożog.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Today we have had a long debate about local government and I am pleased because in exactly 14 days, in 2 weeks we will celebrate a big celebration of local self-government, thirty years of local self-government. We spoke very briefly in this debate on the draft law that has come into effect. Let me refer briefly to this bill, and then I'll say a few sentences as an experienced old self-government officer. Colleagues, as far as this bill is concerned, I have one main concern, namely whether this project and the adoption of such a solution concerning the compensatory system will not blow up those about 400 local governments I was talking about. I don't know that. I'm very afraid of that. I've tried to count it, I've counted it, and from my calculations it turns out it will. But maybe I'm wrong, maybe I don't have good, full, complete data, so that I can put that thesis firmly and say that I absolutely disagree. With reference to the many words that have been said here, I will once again speak as an old self-government officer, because in the last 30 years it is 15 years as head of the board, i.e. the mayor, later as an governor in the local government, and then 15 years in politics, 3 terms of Member at the Sejm, then in the European Parliament, and now here I am with you, so I have some experience. Ladies and gentlemen, you said we were talking about local governments. So much self-government, so much money. One thing is absolutely connected to the other. I have said many times, also in this Chamber, that the main investor over many years was local authorities. In the hands of the local government of each of these three types of "not" levels, because the rungs have ladders, the self-government is autonomous "over 60% of the public funds." This shows how important a partner he was in this game, is and will be a local government. Much has happened, and let us also say in this thirty years that we have built many monuments of foolishness: palm trees, water squirts, unnecessary roundabouts, where only deer and hares walk. The palm trees are dry, the water sprays are dry, because Mom's dry. But in the vast majority of these investments were intentional, because there was such an intention, determination and decision to implement there, at the bottom, in the commune, in the district, in the voivodship government. Ladies and gentlemen, a sentence has already been made here, with which I agree: in general, not only in Poland, but in Europe it is not entirely on the way of the government, no matter what it is, and the local government side. I would say that until 1996 the functioning of the local government was very easy, easy here in Warsaw, it was to obtain funds. Only later were these barriers created, the measures were the same, but there were fewer, because we were cleverly placed with additional tasks. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on. In 2001, it seemed that things had improved considerably, but unfortunately, thanks to the then president who vetoed the income law of the JST, we remained on the wrong bill. I was one of the people who worked on this bill. The local government insisted that we work on the next bill, after the veto, which was unsuccessfully rejected by the president's veto. We have a bill that doesn't stand for reality today, and that should be changed. Dear colleagues, do not say that there were no problems before when there was no government of law and justice when it comes to local government finances. Remember? Many of you remember because we functioned together, at a stake greater than 8 billion. Mr. Senator Frankiewicz, your predecessors in the Association of Polish Cities, the same CEO, the beautiful bill they prepared. We walked together, me as a parliamentarian, with signed signatures, with a draft bill. There was a shortage of local governments. This seemed to be the case for local governments, and in fact, in 2008 over 12 billion were missing in 2009. The size of the debt of local government units was at that time highest. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about the problems of local government. I will not say otherwise: we must develop a new law on the income of local government units, but not on the basis of some disconnected, imaginary indicators. First of all, the costs should be calculated. Once the costs have been calculated, we need to move on to the calculation of revenue for these tasks. After all, municipalities mainly, but also powiats and voivodships carry out some kind of service, let's call it in a large simplification, which can be counted. And let's try here, in the Senate, in this House, over the divisions to try to do it. I'll take my chances with a statement. I know that this is impossible at this point, because because of Coronavirus a lot of data will be distorted and it will be difficult to calculate exactly the costs, and even more so the possible revenue, because you also need to know from what. The situation has changed enormously, but let's try to take advantage of time. given to us for improvement throughout Poland. Because once again I say: it was the local government that mostly changed the face of these lands and villages, towns and cities. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u230	Thank you very much, Mr. Senator, for this very moving and very wise speech. I am sorry that I allowed myself to pay attention to the fact that I should not be a marshal, but we rarely listen to speeches that go beyond unnecessary, I believe, a deep political dispute in Poland and which are speeches aimed at what is our common good and our common homeland. As a senator and a citizen, thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Mr. Mr. Frost. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u231	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I must refer to what Senator Blackbay said... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Why? You don't want me to tell you my name? They're... Firstly, it so happens that in the whole democratic, free market world, the government in each country is responsible for some economic policy through taxes and expenditure. After all, you cannot deny now that what is happening in the economy is a consequence of the economic policy pursued by the government. As the Civic Platform ruled and you were Minister Vincent-Rostowski, it was also an economic policy. And today there is also an economic policy that, fortunately, has good results. That's one thing. Secondly, if you say the government doesn't have its own money and you quote Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher... Of course, it's a fact, only, in this line of reasoning, I'm going to say one thing: local governments don't have their own money either. And that is the question of politics, how we share these funds, how we share the revenue that we receive in the form of taxes, in the form of some fees, in the form of services provided by local governments. Yeah, but they're charging money for that, too. You say it was seven years fat. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. And we spent all that money and now there's no skinny money for these seven years. Mr. Senator, where were those savings after your government? If that's the case great and Poland was not in ruins, it should be some pile of money that this PiS, so to speak, squandered - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. Or that government of law and justice. Well, we're the ones who sealed the tax system. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You can take the simple data from the statistical office and see how the VAT receipts have increased. As we gained this money by sealing the tax system, of course we shared these fruits of economic growth with society. And we're not ashamed of it. Because I prefer that the money from the 500+ program should be given to Polish families, even those that may be less needed, or maybe more, even to Giertych, who says he doesn't need it, but takes it because it goes to Polish families. I'll tell you what, you were scraping the polish in the Mercedes who were pulling up and on the cards, so to speak, you were scraping the polish... Because they weren't just crooks, they were those in expensive Mercedes, with good lawyers. And you were robbing through the VAT carousels. [[Talking in the O.R.]] You should've sealed it. And that, gentlemen and ladies, you will not question that this system has been sealed. VAT rates have not increased, ladies and gentlemen, and revenues have increased. And it's good that today we can, so to speak, share these resources. I'm telling you again... Let me remind you of the time limit. Yes. Last sentence. I am sure that local authorities will also need support, because today there is no de facto area of functioning of a country in which, because of what has happened, there is no need for less or more support for Coronavirus. And believe me, there will be such support. Speaking of the senator, my colleague, I'm going to say one thing. I do not remember whether this was the end of the previous term or the beginning of the current term, but we started work on changing the system of funding for local governments... Senator, it's been five minutes. Amen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u232	Your Senate, the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Halina Poor and Senator Alexander Swed made their speeches in the minutes. High Senate, I inform you that proposals of a legislative nature have been submitted in writing by Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Have all the senators who intended to submit legislative proposals already done so? I'm calling a recess, two or three minutes... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I'm sorry, I have to be precise. I'm declaring a three-minute break. Please check that all requests and submissions submitted have already been forwarded by the senators. Three minutes off, just for the record... [[Talking in the O.R.]] High Senate, I am shortening the gap due to the information I have received that all legislative proposals have already been submitted. As a result, I will resume the session. I remind you that Senator Halina Bieda and Senator Aleksander Szwed made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes, and the proposals of a legislative nature were submitted in writing by Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Is the government representative... There's no... ...wants to respond to the proposals put forward? This is a question which is a rhetorical question in relation to the absence of a government representative, which I regret. As legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate directs the bill to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Senator Kleina has requested that the committee set a deadline for preparing an additional report in order to carry out a third reading of the bill still at this Senate meeting. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. There are no votes against. There are no votes against. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on supplementing the instruments supporting the health care system in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. I would remind you that this project was presented by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and is included in print No 116. The provisions concerning the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply to the examination of this draft law. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present a draft bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I present a report on the work of our committee on the initiative taken on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 Senate Rules of Procedure. It is about putting on the agenda and examining at this meeting the draft law on supplementing the instruments supporting the health care system in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. At the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on 6 May, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera made a request on this matter and presented a draft law on the title I had given earlier. After considering this proposal, after discussing the matter, the Commission decided to refer the project to second reading and asked the High House to consider it. The draft law aims to complement the existing instruments of support for the health system in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. The solutions contained in the draft respond to the expectations of this environment, which were signalled during the legislative work on the previously adopted regulations related to the effects of the spread of this virus. The law therefore provides for the following arrangements. Firstly, the granting of a salary allowance for persons who engage in a medical profession have direct contact with patients suspected of being infected or found to be infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus. The amount of the allowance to be paid shall be 100% basic salary. In addition, they will be entitled to a special allowance for overtime of 50% basic salary. The project also provides for the granting of leave of rest to these persons, i.e. exemption from 7 days' work, to be used within 12 months. Secondly, the financing from the State budget of social security contributions to employees and other persons employed in a medical entity paid in whole or in part by the employer. Thirdly, enabling physiotherapists to perform specific activities through ICT systems or other communication systems. Fourthly, the obligation to test once a week for the presence of the virus of medical professionals, persons employed in social services homes, care and care establishments, as well as regional care and therapy facilities. Fifthly, the obligation to provide personal protective equipment for workers or other persons employed in a medical facility, a social assistance centre, a health care or care establishment, as well as a regional care and therapy facility. These measures will be financed by the State budget. Sixth, testing for SARS-CoV-2 virus by accredited laboratories. The costs of these tests will be borne by the persons applying for them. Seventhly, the production and sale of disinfectant products by public pharmacys. Eight o'clock, the creation by a medical entity, from persons studying in medical, dental, nursing and midwifery fields, support teams of doctors and nurses. After nine, the creation of a state special-purpose fund for the anti-effects fund SARS-CoV-2 virus. After the 10th amendment to the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, which aims to grant a 100% entitlement to sickness benefits the basis of the allowance, during the period of compulsory quarantine or isolation in domestic conditions, to the insured person performing the medical profession in a medicinal entity, including under a civil law contract. In addition, the draft removes the regulation which abolishes criminal liability for breach of professional duties or regulations in the acquisition of goods or services necessary to combat COVID-19; extends the periods necessary for the issuance of occupational medical certificates to 90 days. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took note in detail of these proposals which were submitted to our committee. We felt that this draft legislative initiative had to be linked to this main law, so-called. with a 3.0 shield because it is a clear complement. This project also combines all those proposals that were addressed to the government, were also proposed as amendments during work on the 1.0 shield and the 2.0 shield. The combination of this into a single document seems to be the most rational and reasonable. I would also like to inform the High House that this project has been accompanied by a very detailed, solid, in-depth justification. All senators had the opportunity to understand this justification earlier, because, as I said, this document was sent earlier and to the senators, and to the government. This project is also accompanied by an assessment of the impact of the regulation, an extensive, well prepared one, which also talks about the financial consequences of this regulation. Of course, all the financial consequences of this regulation cannot be predicted, but it seems that these most important effects have been precisely calculated, even with a certain surplus, because it is shown how the tasks set out in this Act could be financed. As I said earlier, this project was addressed to the relevant ministries and ministers responsible for the fight against the koravirus on 6 May. Unfortunately, then the ministers decided that this project would not be evaluated at this stage of its process. I want to say the same thing I said about the previous bill. This is the beginning of a debate at the senate stage on this project. He will, if accepted by the High House, still under discussion, consideration in the Sejm, come back to us, so appropriate additions, amendments, including those that will clarify the various provisions, can be introduced at the right time. To conclude, I would like to ask your marshal that if any amendments to this draft law or legislative proposals are proposed, he should set a deadline for our committee today for a meeting, to examine this so that we can continue today with a third reading, i.e. voting on this proposal, together with voting on other laws, also with Shield 3.0. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may report for no more than one minute, and I will respect that question, to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Kazimierz Kleina to represent them. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions. Your senators in room 217, please report to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Mr. Senators, please send a letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Your Senators, who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to ask questions via chat in the application. I ask that you do not follow the order of applications in the application. I would like to inform you that the senators sitting in the Senate building and the senators participating in the sitting will be allowed to speak alternately. This method will also be used when asking questions to a government representative and during discussions. Please, are there any questions? No questions... They're here. There are questions. Please, Senator Stanisław Gogacz, and then Senator Jerzy Czerwiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u235	My question concerns Art. 7 of this draft law. I ask for information, because in this article there are mentioned mechanisms, which of course need to be commended, i.e. sanitary control, etc., etc., etc. But I'm curious about something else. Namely, the subjective and temporal scope is mentioned in this article, because 60 days are mentioned here and individual professional groups are mentioned. And now tell me, and how do you know it's only 60 days, not 160 days? Second: why this subject range, rather than another subject range? Because in the explanatory memorandum, the State refers to the principles of the Anti-Team Act, and so on. Yeah, but are there any specifics in the bill because I didn't read it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking you to answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm answering the senator's question. That's what we assumed. It is, of course, not binding, at the end, because we assume at the same time that the Minister, by means of a regulation, can clarify the length of these deadlines that you mentioned. Such a solution is also accepted in laws called shields, in the first or second. We even, to be honest, sometimes criticize the fact that it is said that two weeks or a month some benefits are valid, then in subsequent shields it is extended. We even tried on this shield about parental custody for children who can't go to school... We said it should be as long as the facility is closed. The minister says it's not a good solution. Here we have adopted this principle, giving the Minister the right to clarify, extend depending on the situation of the coronavirus. We are not able to predict these epidemiological reasons in a hundred percent. It can happen faster or this epidemic can unfortunately last longer and then there will have to be different situations... It's here for 60 days, Mr. Senator mentioned it because Senator Gogacz. He sees it too, so here he draws attention to a particular and important matter. Me too, we see it too, but there's just no other way to write it down... Thank you very much... ...in our opinion, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, a little comment on the article. Five, but probably an art. 6 and 7. Here's the phrase: "in a period of 12 months after the end of 60 days from the date of the cancellation of the epidemic or epidemic.' If it were that only an epidemic or only an epidemic was being announced, then I would say, hold the poo, it would probably be in line with the intention of the authors. But at the moment we already have such a condition that the epidemic was first introduced, then the state of emergency was canceled and on the same day, on the same day... not in the same legal act, in another regulation, but announced in the same Law Journal, the next regulation introduced a state of epidemic. So we have one, we close, we have another state. Please note, there may be a situation here that this provision will apply twice, because the epidemic situation will be cancelled, this provision will be introduced and at the same time the epidemic will continue. It's misconstrued. There's got to be another alternative here, separate, but it's gotta be different. 'Cause in this case, we're giving this permission that should be granted once both states are shut down, twice... Like I said, one's tied up with the other, but the first one gets locked up... I don't know if I've made myself clear. The same will probably be true in the article. 6 and 7, I didn't analyze, but I'm sure it's in the article. 5.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. Is there anything Senator Kleina would like to say about this? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u241	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! We also see this problem and, of course, it was also discussed with our Legislative Office. Lawyers thought it was a good record. First of all, because you don't know what else might happen. Let us hope that this epidemic or this epidemiological situation will be extinguished and there will be no problem, but even Minister Szumowski once said that there might be a relapse at some point. It can be completed by now, it can reappear in some places in a while. And therefore, the record that we have proposed Even the lawyers suggested such a formula for the solution is the best at the moment. If there's a better idea, the idea of editing it better, we're open and ready to accept the right amendment. If you had an idea of how to do it better, more precisely, then we will be able to accept it at the committee meeting. I understand this is an important matter. Well, as I was saying, of course, this project will still be being worked by the Sejm and probably the Senate, but we would of course prefer to do it today, improve it if there was a better idea of how to edit it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. I see no more reports, no one else has signed up to ask questions to the Senator of the rapporteur. Is the government representative... I must ask this question, because this is what our custom requires, but, in view of the once again stated fact that I have no government representative, questions to him, by necessity, cannot be addressed. I'm opening a discussion. Please draw up a list of senators willing to speak. Your senators in room 217, please speak to Senator Rafał Ambrozik, and to Senator Victor Durlak, who is in room 182. Gentlemen of the senators, please send this letter to Senator Richard Świlski. Senators who participate remotely in the sitting, please report to the discussion via the chat in the application. I remind the senators of the transmission of speeches and proposals of a legislative nature to the senators of the Secretaries and, in the case of the senators, who have participated remotely in the meeting. - to send them electronically to the address indicated in the instructions given to the State. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u243	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! As one of the people who worked quite long and diligently on this project, I would like to take the floor and strengthen some very important, important entries in this project. I am speaking particularly because I regret to say that the Ministry of Health has unfortunately shown no interest in this project. Moreover, in the case of previous shields, in the Darts Act, when we tabled amendments on health protection and medical workers, these amendments were consistently discarded, without further discussion and reflection on the subject. And the topic is very important because it concerns the whole area of health care, but above all it concerns medical workers. And I think the High House understands how important this group of workers is right now, at the time of the epidemic. When we talk about shields, about the need to provide financial support to citizens, entrepreneurs, when we say that we need to solve and support their various kinds of problems, and when various types of instruments are specifically set up for this purpose, it is impossible not to think about whether such support is needed and whether such assistance does not need an area of health. Because, so far, the Ministry of Health has not come up with any project, with any project that would comprehensively assist health workers during this difficult time. High Izbo, the epidemic has exposed the health care system. It is with great pain that I say this because I have been dealing with this subject for many years. Unfortunately, the problem of underfinancing, unfortunately the problem of bad organisation, the lack of cooperation between individual medical institutions, the lack of any consistent solutions that would help this system, has been compounding for many years. And the epidemic exposed absolutely all the problems of this system to pain. Among other things, there is one thing that goes on here. Of course, among others. For funding of this system, but also for specific system solutions. See what happened to public health and the so-called area. care, medical care related to infectious diseases. For many years this area has been marginalized, and now we find with great horror that it is an extremely important area of medicine and care, health, which is not only underfunded, not only has staff shortages, but ♪ As it turns out ♪ In particular, the current situation exposed enormous negligence in equipment and equipment. I think that none of us have any doubt about this, that now, during the epidemic, health comes to plan one, because there is no economy without health. But after the epidemic, High Izbo, this problem will not disappear at all, on the contrary, it will continue to grow. And in fact, right now, when we're looking at all these shortcomings, this lack of coordination, above all staff shortages, we need to ask ourselves what's going to happen in the next few months, in the near future, when the normal health care system comes back, because he's asleep right now. We are now only talking all the time about the treatment of the disease associated with the coravirus, as if no other disease existed, and this is just, ladies and gentlemen, the second installment, which is ahead of us and which will require and strengthen financial, and unbelievably important, large, deep reorganisations, changes and decisions. Today we are focusing on some important, very important things that must sound in this House: we want support for medical workers. From the beginning we are talking about the fact that they require support, financial assistance, but also job security. All amendments in this respect were rejected. I do not know why the Ministry of Health consistently does not want to address this issue, and it is unfortunately the Minister of Health and the Government's role, the duty is to ensure the safety of work for medical workers. Mr. Minister of Health, these are your employees. They're working day and night right now, they're on the front line, sometimes without personal protective equipment, but on them, this system is based on them right now, and it works thanks to them. The first thing we have always talked about was finance, which is why it is here that we propose to create a fund that contains about 20 billion funds from the European Union, but we want to create a fund that is specifically dedicated to the task of fighting the coronavirus. What's the fund for? So that the flow of resources is transparent. And that's all we're aiming for. There are still 2 or even 3 important aspects of this project, which are mandatory in our sense. The first thing is personal protective equipment for medical personnel. We've had a problem with that from the beginning. We understand that this is an exceptional epidemic, we understand that, but certain decisions need to be made in agreement with experts. They were the ones who said that there would be fires and that we had to crush these fires in the germ, among others. by lack of contact, but also by using personal protective measures. Look what's going on. Why do some hospitals become such bonfires? Because they don't have that security. Why do we have such a problem in the DPS, a problem that exploded suddenly? After all, not because these are private facilities, just because the sanitary regime did not ensure, secure, create proper procedures and provide personnel with personal protective equipment. That is why we are asking for workers' protection equipment, which is not an imaginary need, it is not known what needs of employees, it is above all a protection for patients, because if a doctor, nurse or paramedic are protected, they will at the same time ensure the safety of patients. And, ladies and gentlemen, with all due respect to all the people who sewed masks that did all kinds of actions... it's great that society reacts so much, but it's not the role of any of us. This is the role of the government to secure its employees and properly prepare them for their jobs. The second point is testing. We've been talking from the beginning about how important it is to test. Of course, the recommendations of the WHO, i.e. tests, tests, tests, from the beginning, with great difficulty are being carried out with us. Remember the debate here when one of the ministers assured us that we had two laboratories and that it would be great. Now we have 120 labs and we still have a test problem. Still, despite the announcement of Minister Szumowski, who said that 20,000 tests daily this is the standard that we should implement, we do not perform this number of tests. Unfortunately, there are still deficiencies. And testing patients who have symptoms or contact with the coronavirus is one thing. But testing personnel is the second. And it's also a duty. This is also the protection of this staff, as well as patients. Is that possible? Yeah, it's possible. According to calculations, in order to perform tests for personnel who are particularly vulnerable, we need to perform such tests 40,000 a day. And we're able to do that because more and more labs are certified, they're prepared and they want to do it. But when we hear reports that the Ministry is making regulations and monopolizing this market, we wonder where this is going and why these decisions are going. Testing is also very important from an epidemiological point of view. Besides, notice what happens in Silesia: the more tests we do, the more infections we detect. And it's the same thing about drawing up an epidemiological map. If we know exactly how many infections we've got, where we've got them, we'll be able to prevent them. If we don't know it, if we can't tell you how the epidemic is going to happen and when it's going to peak, then unfortunately we're getting lost, just like we are right now. The minister has been saying for some time: the epidemic peak is ahead of us, maybe next week, maybe in two weeks, maybe in three, maybe it'll be the end of May. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not treat ourselves this way. Let's talk substantively, let's rely on epidemiologists' expertise and make joint decisions, because it's our case together. This is the life and health of us, our families and citizens. Wait, there's... Already? Because time... I'm almost done. I have literally two threads left, and I'd like to finish this. If you don't mind, I'll make the last five minutes. The new thing we're introducing in this project is a matter of extra salaries, extras. Ladies and gentlemen, we have never talked about this. These people really work 24 hours in suits, masks, gloves. They deal with severely ill patients, with whom sometimes there is a problem due to difficult contact, but we also require a lot from our doctors because we want them to approach these people in a special way, because these people are alone in this hospital. So in addition, it's a job in a lot of stress. That's why all the extras we're proposing here Perhaps this is for discussion, we can discuss the size of these additives They really deserve it. One important element. The system has so far allowed doctors to work also on civil law contracts. We'll discuss whether these agreements are reasonable or not. However, at the moment, if the lifeguard goes into quarantine and does not receive any remuneration for the quarantine period, then, ladies and gentlemen, this is not a respect for this worker, and that is what I very much demand. In conclusion, because I know I'm running out of time, and I just want to say that I really want us to lean on this project together, because this is a project for employees, an expression of respect for their work. Give a round of applause, help in various forms in the form of masks and collections is great, but what is due from us and from the government, let them also deserve it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. No one has spoken in the debate on the protocol nor have legislative proposals been tabled. Maybe I won't even announce a break right now, but we'll leave you here for a while... I will ask: would anyone else in the halls or any of the senators remotely wish to submit a legislative proposal or a speech to the minutes? No. The discussion is closed. The Senate could now proceed to the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. High Senate, we begin to consider item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on special solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. I would remind you that this project was presented by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance under Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 of the Senate Rules of Procedure and is included in print No 117. The provisions relating to the first reading of the draft law in Senate committees shall not apply when considering this draft law. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to present a draft bill. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u245	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance a report on the work of our committee on the committee's initiative based on the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 Senate Rules of Procedure. This point in our Rules of Procedure allows such an initiative to be carried out using the rapid legislative path. On 6 May this year, at the meeting of our committee, we discussed the law, so-called. Shield 3.0, Senator Bogdan Klich presented a proposal for a law that deals with solutions to support NGOs during the Coronavirus pandemic. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took note of this proposal, discussed it and recommended that the High House adopt and review this bill. The purpose of supporting NGOs during the epidemic period cannot be merely to maintain jobs. These organisations actively participate in the performance of public tasks and significantly support public bodies in the performance of their functions. Support should be aimed at supporting the activities of non-governmental organisations and developing their potential, in particular as regards the pursuit of public benefit activities. The state of the epidemic and the growing economic problems may result in a loss of capacity to carry out socially useful activities. This, in turn, may have a negative impact on beneficiaries of activities undertaken by public benefit entities. In the Act we recommend the following tools of intervention. Firstly, the possibility for an old-age organisation to grant a public benefit loan to cover the current costs of carrying out its statutory activities; the amount of the loan up to PLN 10 000 following the submission of the application and the fulfilment of the conditions would be remitted; secondly, the realisation of the calculation of losses in the revenues of the public benefit organisation, so that the individual proceeds of the grant do not artificially increase income during the period adopted for the calculation of this decrease in revenue; thirdly, the amendment of the principle of acceptance of expenditure and the clearing of grants to public benefit organisations affected by the epidemic; fourthly, the exemption of public benefit organisations between 1 March 2020 and 1 May from the obligation to pay non-payments due to social security contributions, health insurance, the Labour Fund, the Solidarity Fund, the Guarantee Fund for Occupational Benefits or the Pomost Pension Fund; fifthly, the extension of the possibility to participate in meetings of associations' authorities and foundations using electronic communications, including at a time when the state of emergency or epidemic does not apply; sixthly, the addition of a group of public benefit organisations as beneficiaries of gifts to countering the crowns, so that donors, so that donors may be deducted from the bases to the public authorities by official accounts. We expect the proposed law to allow non-governmental organisations more flexible organisational activities, including in the area of financial management, so that public benefit organisations maintain their organisational capacity to carry out statutory tasks. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, we at the committee's meeting analysed as deeply as possible the principles of this proposed law and we considered it to be a good solution. Some of these records were already recommended during the examination of the first and second shields, but they were not accepted then. And it is possible that it was right that they were not adopted at the time, because we believe that now that it will be in a single document regulating these very issues concerning the functioning of NGOs, this will be a better, more complete and clearer solution for the activists of the organisation of public benefit. This draft law is accompanied by a very in-depth, refined justification and, which is very important, an in-depth assessment of the impact of the regulation. I think the senators have had a chance to read all these documents. We also sent this proposal to the relevant ministers on 6 May asking for an opinion. Ministers replied that at this stage of the procedure such an opinion was not needed and that they would participate in the work on this draft law at the next stages. I ask the High House to accept this proposal, and if amendments were to arise, it is a request that the Marshal set us a time limit for examining these proposals for today so that we can vote on this bill together with all other votes at today's sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u246	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Kazimierz Kleina to represent them. Please draw up a list of senators willing to ask questions in all the halls exactly according to the same rules that I have read several times in the last hour. Are there senators willing to ask questions? Senator Bierecki is being reported remotely. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u247	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for Senator President, a question about why the committee has decided to adopt such a procedure, which is, after all, the longest possible legislative procedure. Because there are 3 readings in the Senate, 3 readings in the Seym, then 3 readings in the Senate, then the President's signature and only a publication, instead of submitting an amendment to the Government's submission in print 106. Were there any obstacles? Did the Legislative Office signal any obstacles preventing such amendments from being made instead of taking a separate initiative? That's my question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I explained this question already during my speech. Some of the provisions of this draft law have already been notified in the form of amendments to the shield 1.0 to the shield 2.0, but unfortunately they have not received support in the Sejm. However, it may have been a better idea to prepare a single, complete document drawing up all... Well, maybe not all of them, because we're still far from meeting all the expectations of NGOs. It's about all of this being in one document. We have already seen at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance that some non-governmental organisations are not in shield 3.0, just as they were previously out of shield 2.0. We therefore considered this initiative, which is a separate document on this area alone, to be the best solution. We thought we were going to do it. And we still think we're gonna be okay. That this is paradoxically the shortest path, the fastest way to proceed over this law. If everything succeeds, we will be able to direct it to the Sejm today, and the Sejm, having a document ready, if it considers it desirable, will be able to run the whole procedure tomorrow, so as to accept the bill and direct it to us. In this situation, it would already be adopted at the next Senate meeting. If there were no special comments, we could accept it immediately, accept it without any comments next week, and the President could sign it right away. Otherwise, discussion would begin, there would be a long debate at the Sejm meeting, and the government would have had to prepare such a bill even before. So it seems that what we've done opens up a fast path. We have done a large part of the work that would otherwise have to be done by the government, and this way the government can deal with other important issues related to the fight against the koravirus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u250	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no more people willing to ask questions. In contrast to the previous items on the Senate agenda, government representatives have appeared and government representatives are usually allowed to speak on the subject. Well, they could be for them, too. questions addressed. So I will ask the gentlemen who, I believe, represent Mr Morawiecki's office here, if they would like to speak on this matter. Not necessarily, because... It's not your responsibility. I would like to say that we have rather come to the meeting of the budget committee, which... I understand, Minister. Excuse me, Your presence has simply forced me to react and ask you whether you would like to take part in the discussion on this point. In that case, let me inform you that I'm opening a discussion. Senator Bogdan Klich is speaking. I ask the senator to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u251	This will only be additional information, comments for this comprehensive presentation made by Senator Klein. Indeed, we have tried once to put in place solutions that would support the whole third sector, but that did not work. That's when we tabled the amendments, and right now we're updating the bill. It is a draft law that I think will be welcomed by the community of NGOs, because this environment is experiencing exactly the same problems that every other company in Poland or any other public institution is experiencing. The aim of this law is to ensure that the third sector survives, overcomes those risks arising from the outbreak of coritotus and isolation which has been introduced to prevent its health effects. The non-governmental community is not a lonely island, it is included in the financial cycle, it is involved in the functioning of the entire financial and economic turnover, and therefore faces the same challenges and experiences the same problems as other sectors of public life. And that's why we assume that the Senate should send out a clear signal, a clear signal, that the Senate cares about the third sector, because it is one of the pillars of democracy. And so it is not only in Poland, it is so in all democratic countries in the world, and it is such that they have a long, and those which have a shorter democratic tradition. There are not many public tasks without the participation of the third sector. Therefore, the survival of organisations that perform public tasks is a need for the whole state. It is therefore not only about NGOs being able to maintain jobs, but also about maintaining their capacity to carry out public tasks. I stress: capacity to carry out public tasks. Because if they lose them, most of them will lose them irreparably. And that's why it's in this bill that we're talking about both loans that they could apply for... The lender, what we're proposing, could be an old man. These loans would not be large, but those that would guarantee the organisation's financial liquidity, provided that the organisation maintains its business for at least 3 months. We are also talking about making both the accounting period and the reporting period more flexible in the performance of public tasks, because in many cases this implementation happened exactly when the epidemic was going on, exactly when many organisations were about to complete these tasks, and therefore the reporting period and the settlement period should be in the opinion of the initiators extended. Finally, we see no special difference between public benefit organisations and social cooperatives. Therefore, we believe that it is necessary to extend the exemption of 100 per cent to all non-governmental organisations, regardless of the number of employees. There should not be such a distinction that some of them will receive a 100% exemption from the Social Security Office for 3 months, and some of them only 50%. Let us not introduce unnecessary distinctions here. It is also important that what is already enshrined in the law, namely the possibility of using electronic voting when decisions are taken by the authorities of non-governmental organisations, become a method that can be applied also after the end of the pandemic. I do not see any obstacles to making decisions in this way at a time when the epidemic will expire, especially since NGOs will already have the first experience in this area. Finally, this law also seeks to include the donors of these donations to non-governmental organisations that are dedicated to combating epidemics by way of exemptions from PIT. Some NGOs deal with completely different issues, but some carry out tasks or tasks that involve them in preventing and combating the effects of the epidemic. We are convinced that donors to such NGOs should have special preferences. Ladies and gentlemen, the functioning of the third sector is either to be or not to be for Polish democracy. Polish democracy should survive this difficult period, so it must also survive one of its pillars. If we provide support for non-governmental organisations at the moment, it is as if we are taking care of the functioning of Polish democracy after the end of the epidemic. I believe that such a novel, such a bill is a good undertaking, and I hope that the High Senate will accept this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u252	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor in the remote mode of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I happen to have to refer once again to Senator Bierecki's words during this sitting. That's what happens. I'd like to say one thing. Well, Senator Bierecki is surprised that this is our initiative that it has not been tabled in the form of amendments. I would like to say, Mr. Senator, that the experience of the last 4.5 years was that whatever our amendments were in the previous term, this country was automatically, after a few hours in the Seym and after several hours in the Senate, you pushed your knees and rejected everything. And then you came back after a few weeks. Once again, I am returning to the Supreme Court with the same amendments that we have tabled or which our Legislative Office has proposed as an initiative, losing months to a completely nonsense sitting, once again. Don't be surprised that we don't have a lot of confidence in making amendments, because you are reporting these initiatives related to helping Poles and getting into all this. ♪ Sometimes ♪ ♪ Sometimes They're even hard to detect. They are purely political set-ups that are of no importance to economic aid at all. Therefore, for the sake of clarity of view and for the approach of only such economic and sector-specific assistance, there is such an initiative. I repeat: if you had thought that this kind of event you thought was unprecedented, and you have said it many times... If you had thought for a moment about doing this together with the opposition, with all the political players on the political stage, you would have done it a month ago, in full consensus. The entire experience of 5 years or 4.5 years and also what you have been doing over the past six months indicate that you cannot believe in any way that what you are reporting is devoid of political features and that this is just a pure approach, just and exclusively a desire for economic help for all of us. And I ask you to do that again. It's no surprise that no one in your government believes when you take initiatives, because they're always, so to speak, affected by political interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u254	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u255	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to join those voices that speak of a very high need to adopt such regulation. We can consider whether we are talking about saying, an area that is also important because of the number of actors involved in his work, but as for the substance of the argument, it is also decided today that these entities are able to carry out public tasks. And yet these actors often function in areas where, for various reasons, you clearly do not accept these obligations from organisations that help people in palliative states, through pro-animal organizations, of course, to such organisations, because this is also the sector, such as the voluntary fire brigades or the circles of rural hostels that we discussed today. As the data from the list of Klon/Jawor organisations shows, which include statistical information and also information from statistical offices, almost half, because 45% , Polish organizations are based on social work. But what does that mean? That the latter half is based on permanent or periodic employment of workers employed on employment contracts or other civil-law contracts. 1/3 of these entities, about 35%, have one or more permanent employees. 20% These organisations shall employ an employee or staff member for the contract of employment. Permanent paid staff is an integral part of the organisation's statutory tasks. Even in the case of organisations that do not have permanent employees, as many as 1/5 of them eat short-term contracts during the year, employing some employees. In 2018, the last year-round statistics were recorded in Poland with 22,000 foundations and 112,000 associations. Ladies and gentlemen, what does this mean in practice? That if, as I said, only some of them have employees or employees, today we're talking about tens of thousands of people who, due to the pandemic situation of Coronavirus... After all, a large proportion of these organisations are specifically financed by voluntary contributions and donations, and these, for understandable reasons, should be reckoned with by a much smaller stream to these organisations, also because of the financial difficulties and economic situation of the citizens themselves. Today we are working on an extremely important bill. Maybe even symbolically on the day when we worked on a government aid project for the rural hostels' circles, and very well that there was this project, we also need to remember about organisations that not in rural areas, but in urban areas. Because we're talking about tens of thousands of people who need this help from us today. And for all these years, we have benefited from the help of those who work socially or on the board of these organizations, fulfilling the noble social goals assigned to them. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u256	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. The senator will be connected remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u257	Thank you very much, Marshal. I would not want this discussion to lead to a misconception that only this draft law is opening up some assistance to non-governmental organisations and that these non-governmental organisations have been left out or are not in the sphere of interest and are not covered by the aid shield. I would like to remind you that on the last day of March a law was passed, which brings many elements of aid to NGOs. And one by one, I'm going to mention what it is that's going to sound like in this House. So it is for non-governmental organisations employing employees: exemption from ZUS contributions, funding of salaries up to 90% if the revenues of this organisation decreased by more than 80%. For non-governmental organisations carrying out public tasks: changing the deadline and rules for the clearance of public tasks, which is very important, as well as commissioning public tasks outside the competition. This is supposed to help these non-governmental organisations performing public tasks in faster contract acquisition, in non-competition mode. For economic non-governmental organisations: low-interest loans from the Labour Fund, subsidies for employees' salaries. For the organisation of public benefit: change of the deadline for the settlement of personal tax. That would be enough to mention only the most important elements of the shield already covered by such organisations. I am surprised to see the efforts to build a manifesto, because this is probably the way it should be treated, a manifesto, which is this bill. After all, this could be an amendment, as my previous speaker, Senator Pociej, pointed out. And it is only because of the lack of faith that such an amendment would be supported that there is a demonstration of the willingness to choose this legislative path, which is intended to create the appearance that only this Senate initiative involves the care of non-governmental organisations. That's not true. Non-governmental organisations are already using an anti-crisis shield. There are also programs of the National Institute of Freedom, anti-crisis, specifically for NGOs. Thus, these structures were not overlooked in these efforts, in helping the various actors in this difficult time of epidemic. So much to note from such a chronicle duty. It's hard for me to find out what's new, which brings more to this bill than... But, as I understand it, this question will be answered by the applicants at the next stages of their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u258	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Halina Poora made her speech in the minutes. No legislative proposals have been submitted. I would like to ask whether the senators who intended to make such proposals want to do so. I'm asking you to hand it over to the secretaries... There are no calls. I therefore close the discussion. The Senate could now proceed to the third reading of the bill, but the third reading would only cover the vote and will therefore be conducted together with other votes. I'm ordering an adjournment until 9:30 p.m. Now there will be announcements.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u259	Meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance on the examination of requests submitted at the 10th Senate meeting to the Act amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus, Senate printing No 106, to the draft law on specific arrangements for local self-government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the spread of the disease caused by that virus, print No 114, and to the draft law on amending the Law on specific arrangements related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases, print No 117, will take place today, 13 May, one hour after the announcement of the break in the Senate's session in the Senate Plenary Room.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u260	Thank you very much. Time-out until 9:30. After the break, the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 08 to 22 minutes 31]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u261	Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the session. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by items: cancellation of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate and consider it as item 12 of the agenda; election of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate and consider it as item 13 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the appeal of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. High Izbo, in connection with his resignation from his duties by Deputy Marshal Stanisław Karczewski, a group of senators submitted a request for his dismissal. The same application can be found in print No 119. I would like to remind you that the senators present in the sitting room and in the rooms 217 and 182 vote by pressing the button on the apparatus. The Senators participating in the deliberations are asked to press the button "OK" in order to confirm their willingness to take part in the vote. The decision to take part in the vote will show the voting window with 3 options to choose from: Clicking one of the 3 rows results in the selection marking in the circle on the left. To vote, send your decision to the system. For this purpose, press the pass button or the Submit button in some tablets in the top right corner of the window and approve by pressing again the pass button. We proceed with the vote on the appeal of Vice-Marshal of the Senate, Senator Stanisław Karczewski. The Senate, I remind you, dismisses the Senate Vice-Marshal by adopting an absolute resolution by a majority of the statutory number of senators. Who's in favour? Who's against it? The marshal should be against it. Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 93 for, 1 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the cancellation of the Senate Vice-Marshal, Senator Stanisław Karczewski, and has dismissed him as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. Allow me to thank the marshal from this place for his service in the Senate for the good of the Republic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u262	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I want to assure you and you that I will continue to serve Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u263	Thank you very much. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the election of the Vice-Marshal of the Senate. 13th point 13th... On 13 May, a significant date, Mr. Senator. High Izbo, I inform you that Senator Marshal Mark Pęk has been nominated as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. The proposal is in print No 120. I ask Senator Marek Martynowski to present the candidacy of Senator Marek Pęk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u264	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Marek Pęk, Senator IX and X of the term of office, Vice-Marshal of the IX Senate, was born on August 8, 1975 in Rzeszów. He lives in Krakow all his life and is associated with him. In 2001 he graduated from the Faculty of Law and Administration at the Jagiellonian University in Cracow, and in 2006 he completed postgraduate studies in European Union law at the same university. He was an active member and player of the AZS UJ section of basketball. After college, he worked as a lawyer. From 2004 to 2009, he served as a legal assistant to Members of the European Parliament. Between 2010 and 2014, Marek Pęk was a legal adviser and from 2009 to 2015 he worked with a notary firm run by his wife in Krakow. Member of the Party Law and Justice, Chairman of the District Board of this Party in Krakow, member of the Bureau of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Senator IX and X of the term of office elected in district No 31, including the counties of Kraków, Olkuski and Miechowski. In Senate IX he served as Secretary of the Senate, Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Vice-Marshal of the Senate. In Senate X, he is the chairman of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and is a member of the Legislative Commission and vice-chairman of the delegation of the Sejm and Senate to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. I ask the High House to vote in favour of Senator Mark's candidacy as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u265	Thank you very much, senator. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the election of Senator Mark Pęk as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. I would remind you that the Senate elects the Senate Vice-Marshal by an absolute majority vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted... [[Applause]] ...and the absolute majority is 49. It was 95 against no one, with two senators holding back. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the election of the Senate Vice-Marshal and has chosen Senator Mark Pęk as Vice-Marshal of the Senate. I'm gonna ask your vice marshal to approach the presidential table because I'd like to give you the Senate resolution on this matter. [[Applause]] I played basketball in AZS, too. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Then you'll be next. But I was too short. Congratulations. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I'm left-handed and... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the choice. To be honest, given the volatility of the current majority in the Senate, from the so-called. I voted in favour of procedural caution, but it turned out to be completely unnecessary. All the more reason to thank the senators representing the majority for supporting my candidacy. I assure you that I will perform these duties with maximum commitment, honestly, as best I can. For the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u267	Thank you very much, senator. After this pleasant ceremony we return to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the law on amending the law on the circles of rural hostess. The meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development was adjourned, which responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the debate and prepared a report on the subject; it is in print No 112 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of reporting on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development today... or yesterday's meeting. As regards the 3 amendments which were tabled, the committee supported Amendment 2, which was the amendment of the committee. Therefore, on behalf of the committee, please support Amendment 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u269	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would remind you that the conclusions in the discussion were made by Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Jan Filip Libicki. I... Let me, Philip... You're Senator Libicki too, aren't you? No, I don't. Oh, good. Me at a different point.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u270	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I strongly ask and recommend that we accept all these amendments, although the Committee on Agriculture had a different opinion in this regard. Why? The regulations adopted in the Act are of an occasional nature. I have no doubt that sympathy for the circles of rural hostesses is not a temporary sympathy, limited time, but on the contrary. And I would like to draw your attention to the fact that our amendment is an amendment which provides for funding resulting from a government project not for one year, for 2020 but for a longer period of time. I am addressing this side of the room because I know that this amendment has support, for which I warmly thank you. I ask you to consider this. Let us show together that our sympathy for rural hostess circles is not limited only to 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u271	Thank you very much, senator. So we proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1 and 3 should be voted on together. Amendments 1 and 3 extend the entitlement of the rural hostel rings to receive from the State budget financial assistance for the tasks referred to in Article. 2 (2) 3 of the Law of 9 November 2018 on the Wheels of Rural Housewives for the years 2021 to 2029 and the appropriations provided for this purpose from the State budget. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 95 senators, 51 votes for, 41 against, 3 abstentions. [[Voting No 32]] Amendment 2 removes the wrong identification of the beneficiary of the targeted grant for the implementation of financial assistance to the rural hostel's rings and the transferor for the bank account of the rural host's ring. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 96 for, no one against, and one senator abstained. [[Voting No 33]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 in favour, no one against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Wheels of Rural Housewives. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 104 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski, to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u272	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I want to report very briefly. The Commission has properly upheld the recommendation from the first reading, except that it has approved the amendment tabled by Marshal Marek Borowski, which gives a stronger expression to this section of the resolution, which means reminding the entire international community of the uncompensated, disproportionately high, highest losses suffered by Poland during the Second World War. The Commission did not support the amendment tabled by Mr Jerzy Czerwinski, which... Mr. Senator. ...was a subject of debate and known to the ladies and gentlemen of the senators. Please accept the draft resolution together with the amendment tabled by Marshal Borowski, which the committee recommends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u273	Do the senators of the applicant still want to speak? During the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were tabled by Senators Jerzy Czerwiński and Marek Borowski. Senator Kazimierz Ujazdowski was the committee's rapporteur after first reading. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the provisions of the draft. This is 104 X. Then a vote will be taken on the adoption of the draft, i.e. printing No 104 S, in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Attention, Amendment 1 is excluded from voting on Amendment 2. We proceed with the vote on Amendment 1, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 45 for, 51 against. [[Voting No 35]] We proceed with the vote on Amendment 2, Senator Marek Borowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 56 for, 34 against, 6 abstentions. [[Voting No 36]] We therefore proceed to vote on the draft resolution in its entirety as a result of the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted in favour, ninety-four in favour, no one opposed, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 75th anniversary of the end of World War II in Europe. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda because points 8 and 9 are still in the legislative paper as soon as they are drawn up, we will return to their examination of the second reading of the draft law on supplementing the instruments supporting the healthcare system in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held... Which point is it? This is the tenth point. Because I hear questions... I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print 116. The Commission also proposes that the Senate authorise Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law submitted by the committee and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 51 votes 43 against. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a bill supplementing the instruments supporting the health care system in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate authorised Senator Beata Małecka-Libera to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. I would like to remind you that a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and that a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committee requests the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print 117. The Commission also proposes that the Senate authorise Senator Bogdan Klich to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law submitted by the committee and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 Senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Bogdan Klich to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. Ladies and gentlemen, as legislators are working hard to get us to vote on points eight and nine, I am announcing a recess until 11:50 p.m. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 58 to 0 minutes 18]] Please take your seats. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus. Senator with a motion?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u274	Mr. Marshal, I would very much like to ask for support for miners, who today in a very large number are infected with the coronavirus and unfortunately, just as in the case of doctors, nurses, only because they are sick, today on social media there are many hatets addressed to them. Only because they're sick because they're infected. I mean, any one of us could be infected. Therefore, please. [[Senator Halina Poor presents postcards with subtitles: #We wishHealth and #Governors we are with you]] Miners, we wish you health and we're with you. It's a social action. We're with them. Anyone else who would like to join, I can give you...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u275	Thank you very much. Support in the fight against the pandemic virus is always valuable. Thank you, senator, for this precious initiative. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print 106 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u276	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I present a report on the meeting of our committee on amendments tabled to the Act. We recommend the High House to accept the proposals - this is printing 106 Z The following points are inserted in points 1 and 4, 7, 9 and 14, 16 and 30, 33 and 61, 63, 64, 66 and 70, 72 and 78, 83, 85 and 89, 91, 94 and 96, 98, 99, 101, 103 and 106. In addition, I would like to inform you that the committee has agreed to make some changes to the compilation of proposals and has accepted those applications which have been submitted to the applicant pursuant to Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. The following applicants changed their conclusions: Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Senator Adam Szejnfeld and all members of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 7 The Senate's Rules of Procedure have withdrawn their proposals: the Committee on Budget and Public Finance: point 5 of the table of proposals, as well as Senator Adam Szejnfeld: paragraphs 15, 82, 92, 93 and 100 of the table of proposals. At the same time, the committee calls for amendments to be voted on as a whole, which are legislative and precise in nature, namely amendments Nos 1, 2, No 4, No 9, No 10, No 16, No 17, No 18, No 20, No 23, No 26, No 30, No 39, No 44, No 46, No 48, No 52, No 57, No 66, No 68, No 69, No 72, No 77 and No 85. I'm handing this over to the marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u277	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions were made during the discussion by the senators: Józef Zając, Adam Szejnfeld, Krzysztof Mróz, Jan Filip Libicki, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Kazimierz Kleina, Stanisław Lamczyk, Paweł Arndt, Lidia Staroń, Robert Dowhan, Aleksander Posiej, Marek Martynowski, Jacek Bury, Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Zygmunt Frankiewicz. I would remind you that the conclusions you enumerated by the president were withdrawn by Senator Adam Szejnfeld and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Do any of you senators want to uphold your withdrawn applications? No. So we begin voting on the amendments tabled. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We will begin with the joint vote on the amendments that you spoke about, Senator rapporteur. I'll remind you of the numbers again. If I do not hear opposition, I will not read the justification for each of these amendments, nor for the subsequent amendments. Thank you. We are therefore voting jointly on Amendments 1, 2, 4, 9, 10, 16, 17, 18, 20, 23, 26, 30, 39, 44, 46, 48, 52, 57, 66, 68, 69, 72, 77, 85. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 54 for, 40 against, 1 abstention from the senator. [[Voting No 40]] Attention, amendments 3, 59, 86 and 96 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 50 for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 41]] Attention, Amendment 5 is a withdrawn amendment. Adoption of Amendment 6 excludes voting on Amendments 7 and 8. This is the amendment of Senator Józef Zając and Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 3 for, 90 against, 1 abstained. [[Voting No 42]] Since this amendment has been rejected, we are voting on Amendment 7, whose adoption excludes the vote on Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 94 senators voted, 56 for, 37 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 11, Senator Jan Filip Libicki. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 51 votes 42 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 44]] Attention, amendments 12 and 99 should be voted on together. These are amendments of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] Amendment 13 is also an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] N.B.: Amendments 14 and 87 should be voted together. These are also the amendments of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 53 votes against, 42 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 47]] Note: Amendments 15, 82, 92, 93 and 100 have been withdrawn. About Amendments 15, 82... No, no. Excuse me. Overruled. Yeah, yeah. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Now amendments 19 and 83. Yes, sir. Amendments 19 and 83 are amendments to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 51 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 21 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 91 for, 3 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 22 is an amendment by Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 for, 43 against. [[Voting No 50]] N.B.: Amendments 24 and 95 should be voted together. These are amendments of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Amendment 23 has already been voted on. We are voting on Amendments 24 and 95. These are the amendments of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 25, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 93 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 52]] Amendment 27, Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 53]] Attention, amendments 28 and 101 should be voted on together. These are the amendments of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 50 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 54]] Attention, Amendments 29 and 88 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will rule out voting on Amendment 31. These are amendments of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 51 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 55]] Please note that amendments 32, 81, 84 and 102 should be voted on together. These are amendments of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 2 for, 93 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 56]] Attention, amendments 33 and 94 should be voted on together. These are amendments of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 Senators voted, 51 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 57]] Amendment 34, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 58]] Amendment 35, Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 59]] Attention, amendments 36 and 103 should be voted on together. These are the amendments of Senators Stanisław Lamczyk and Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 43 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 60]] Amendment 37, senators Stanisław Lamczyk and Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 43 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 61]] Amendment 38, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 51 were in favour, 43 against, and 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 62]] Amendment 40, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 43 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 63]] Amendment 41, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 64]] Amendment 42, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 51 were in favour, 43 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 65]] Amendment 43, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 43 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 66]] Amendment 45, senators Kazimierz Kleina and Paweł Arndt. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 were in favour, 43 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 67]] Amendment 47, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 92 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 68]] Amendment 49 to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 Senators voted, 51 votes against, 42 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 69]] Amendment 50 to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 94 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 70]] Amendment 51 Senators Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Senator Lydia Staron. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 51 votes against, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 71]] Attention, amendments 53 and 104 should be voted on together. These are the amendments of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 72]] Attention, amendments 54 and 105 should be voted on together. These are the amendments of Senator Kazimierz Kleina. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 90 votes against, 3 against and 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 73]] Amendment 55 Senators Robert Dowhan and Adam Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 74]] Amendment 56, Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all of them. Okay, okay, [[Voting No 75]] Amendment 58, senators Alexander Potij and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 53 for, 42 against. [[Voting No 76]] Amendment 60, Senator Marek Martynowski. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 92 for, 2 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 77]] Amendment 61 is Senator Marek Martynowski's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] So they won't make a mistake in the Seym... The vote was 95 senators, 93 for, 1 against and 1 abstention from the vote. [[Voting No 78]] Note: Amendment 62 is excluded from the vote on Amendment 63. Amendment 62 is Senator Jack Bury's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 7 against, 85 against, and three senators abstained. [[Voting No 79]] We are voting on Amendment 63, the amendment of Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 53 votes against, 42 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 80]] Note: Amendment 64 excludes voting on Amendment 65. Amendment 64 is an amendment by Senators Kazimierz Kleina and Stanisław Lamczyk. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 81]] Amendment 67 is Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 82]] Amendment 70 is an amendment of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 83]] Amendment 71 is Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, 52 votes against, 43 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 84]] Amendment 73 is Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz's amendment. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 85]] Amendment 74, Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 86]] Amendment 75, Senator Aleksander Pociej. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against. [[Voting No 87]] Amendment 76, Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 against, 44 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 88]] Amendment 78, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 89]] The opposition is asleep. Note that Amendment 79 excludes voting on Amendments 89, 90 and 97. Amendment 79. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 4 against 92, no one abstained. [[Voting No 90]] Amendment 80. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 3 against 93, no one abstained. [[Voting No 91]] Amendment 89, Senator Aleksander Pociej. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 against 44 and no one abstained. [[Voting No 92]] Amendments 90 and 97 to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance should be voted on together. They're... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Excuse me, have we accepted Amendment 89 or not? Acknowledged. Yes. Yeah, right, I'm honoring you. And it is only possible to vote on Amendments 90 and 97 if Amendment 89 is rejected, and since it has been adopted, that vote is excluded. Amendment 91, Senator Adam Szejnfeld and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote... Come on, push it in there... [[Joy in the Chamber]] The opposition is asleep. Vote... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's a sharp shadow of fog. 96 Senators voted, 95 for, 1 against. [[Voting No 93]] Amendment 98 to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 94 for, 2 against, and no one abstained. [[Voting No 94]] Amendment 106, Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 95]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 Senators voted, 95 in favour, no one against, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 96]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending certain laws on protective measures in connection with the spread of the SARS-CoV-2 virus. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on specific solutions for local government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the spread of the disease caused by this virus. After a second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and obliged this committee to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 114 X. We proceed to the third reading of the bill. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u278	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At its meeting on 13 May, which was yesterday, the Commission responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the discussion. The Commission supported the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of the table of proposals and requests that the Senate adopt them together with the draft law on specific arrangements for local government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS-COV-2 and the spread of the disease caused by that virus and the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 114. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u279	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? During the second reading, you submitted legislative proposals to Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, and Senator Kazimierz Kleina was the committee's rapporteur during the second reading. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to rapporteurs and applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text, in print No 114 X, and then in full adoption of the draft, in print No 114, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 4 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 97]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 98]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please report the results. 96 senators voted, 52 votes against, 44 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 99]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The Commission proposes that the Senate authorize Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The vote was 95 senators, 52 votes for, 42 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 100]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law on specific arrangements for local government related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of SARS-CoV-2 infection and the spread of the disease caused by this virus and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to represent the Senate in further work on this project. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 10th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Please draw up a list of senators willing to make statements. Let me remind you that statements can't last more than five minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 10th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. You will be informed by electronic means of the dates of the next meetings. It may be next week or in two weeks. I'm closing ten... Mr. Marshal, yet... Oh, and... Excuse me. On the list of senators wishing to make their statement are four persons: Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, Jerzy Wcisła, Jerzy Chróścikowski and Stanisław Gawłowski. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u280	Please take the floor and make a statement by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is addressed to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Szark. Dear President, In September 2016, the Act prohibiting the promotion of communism or other totalitarian system by the names of buildings, objects and public utility facilities entered into force. This law was amended twice, e.g. by adding to its scope the names of the organisational units and auxiliary units of the municipalities and monuments. This last change did not concern names, but physically existing in the area of monuments and other symbolic commemorations. According to the transitional provision, the effective removal of monuments not meeting the criteria of the Act was to end on 31 March 2018, i.e. more than 2 years ago. The Senate of the Republic of Poland was the initiator, the author of both the draft original law and most changes in its content, among others. the change in monuments mentioned above. This empowers the Upper House to follow the fate of this law, its implementation and the consequences of its application. In turn, the Institute of National Remembrance was and is involved in the implementation of this law as an expert institution issuing opinions. In addition to voivodships, it is the IPN that has full and real knowledge of the names of streets and other names that violate the provisions of the Act, as well as monuments and other symbolic commemorations that are incompatible with the Act. I therefore address the following specific questions to the President concerning the operation of the above-mentioned law. First, how many street names and possibly object names were incompatible with the law on the scale of the country and individual voivodships prior to the entry into force of the law? If the President had more detail, e.g. broken down by county or municipality, I would also ask for their presentation and transmission in the form of written annexes, possibly in a file. Secondly, the same question, but concerning monuments and other symbolic commemorations. Third, how many street names and possibly other objects have been changed to statutory names in a definitive and legally binding manner? Please provide details as in the case of the first question. Fourthly, the same question, but concerning monuments and other symbolic commemorations. Fifthly, how many street names and possibly names of other objects have not been changed to legal names, or is it in the process of change and this change is not valid yet? Details like before. Sixthly, the same question, but concerning monuments and other symbolic commemorations. After the seventh summary. What were the main reasons for the non-implementation of the law in the various cases mentioned in paragraphs 5 and 6 of the Act, e.g. shortcomings in the text of the Act, obstruction of municipalities or other local authorities or other obliged entities, judicial practice in judgment, etc.? Please provide detailed description of the individual cases, i.e. the maintenance of the municipalities, and descriptions of the sites indicated. After eight o'clock, how do you assess the operation of this bill? What could still be changed, whether in the text of the law itself, or in practice, in order to achieve the full achievement of the objective pursued by it, i.e. complete and permanent removal from the Polish public space of names of streets and other objects, monuments and other symbolic commemorations, promoting communism or other totalitarian system. With respect, Jerzy Czerwiński, Senator of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u282	Thank you, Senator. Now I'm going to ask you to read Senator George Wcisla's statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u283	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I declare on behalf of myself and Senators Leszek Czarnobaj, Kazimierz Kleina and Ryszard Świlski. The statement is addressed to the Minister of Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, Mr Marek Gróbiarczyk, and to the President of the State Water Farm Polskie Dear Minister, Dear President, The Regional Water Management Board in Gdansk on 29 April issued a communication on the principles of working mucus for shipping in the area of the Żuławska Loop, the Vistula Delta and the Elbląskie Canal. According to these rules, the locks will only be available until 5 p.m., and this limitation also applies to Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. If that's not enough, the airlock on Christmas days will require prior agreement, at least 12 hours in advance, with the manager of the facility, the airlock. The information does not indicate that the result of these arrangements must be the opening of the airlock during the hours expected by the waterman. These rules, if maintained, will significantly reduce tourism in this area. Such signals are received from watermen, organizers and companies of the water tourism sector, as well as local and regional authorities of Pomorskie and Warmia-Mazurskie voivodships. It is worth reminding here that in recent years some PLN 0.5 billion has been invested in the development of water tourism, mainly by local authorities. This resulted in significant growth in this form of tourism. In the area of Loop Żuławska the number of sluices increased almost three times, the fleet of companies chartering vessels, yachts, motor boats and others developed. In an epidemic, interest in national tourism is growing. It is an excellent form of rest just at the time when forms requiring some isolation and avoiding large communities or common accommodations will be preferred. These criteria are met by water tourism. In this situation, we should make decisions to attract a Polish tourist to our routes, build a tourist brand from shipping, not limit it so that management institutions are easier and can survive cheaper by the end of the season. Minister, Mr President, we believe that your rapid intervention will correct the wrong and harmful decisions, and the advantages of the Żuławska Loop, the Vistula Delta and the Elbląg Canal, on which infrastructure, often exceeding the infrastructure found on the inland routes of Western Europe, will be the goal of tourist expeditions and discovery for those who will appear on these routes for the first time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u284	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers, Mateusz Morawiecki, on the occasion of the thirty-nineth anniversary of the registration of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity). 39 years ago, on 12 May 1981, the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Independent Farmers was registered as the first Polish peasant union organization in history, the only organization at that time completely independent of communist power. The registration of NSZZ Individual Farmers (Solidarity) was the crowning of the long-term struggle of Polish farmers for their own organization defending their professional interests, starting with the first committees of self-defense of the peasant land of Lublin, Rzeszow, Grójecka, Interim Committee of the Independent Trade Union of Farmers in Lisów, through strikes and agreements of Rzeszow and Strzyckie, Bydgoskie events and a union convention in Poznań. In this fight the Catholic Church supported us in a special way, headed by the Primate of Poland, soon blessed Stefan Cardinal Wyszyński. The uprising and registration of agricultural solidarity is part of the history and achievement of the great movement of solidarity from the early 1980s, which, thanks to the efforts of millions of people, the solidarity started democratic change in Central and Eastern Europe and led to the collapse of communism. It was the farmers from agricultural solidarity that strongly supported strikers throughout the country of trade unions, as well as delivered food to strikers in Świdnik and during a memorable strike in Gdańsk Shipyard. Many farmers for their activities were repressed and internated, deprived of the ability to run their own farms. All those participants and sympathizers of the union that created the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers.Solidarity, as well as those who are currently contributing to its further functioning, development and action in favour of the Polish countryside and agriculture, deserve special thanks and respect. The Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity) has for almost 40 years been protecting the interests of Polish family farms and individual farmers and defending Polish land, bringing together already a third generation of farmers around its activity. Today, the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers (Solidarity) is still needed in an era of ongoing socio-political change, economic and structural change, agriculture farming in an increasingly globalised and inclusive world. Voice in defence of multigenerational, traditional, healthy, high-quality food of family farms... It is particularly important that, at the present time, the NSZZ of Individual Farmers (Solidarity), as a member of COPA-COGECA, can seek appropriate support for agriculture and family farms in the negotiations of the future common agricultural policy. In view of the issues raised here, I ask the Prime Minister to take up talks with the NSZZ Presidency in connection with the letter submitted on 11 May this year. as well as requests for the current agricultural situation under the name "Guidelines for cover measures in view of the current agricultural situation', as well as for talks on preparations for the organisation of the 40th anniversary of the registration of NSZZ Individual Farmers "Solidarity' in the near future. Sincerely, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u286	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski in Room 182.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I, too, address my statement to the President of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Recently, the government Together with President Duda, he announced success in signing the agreement for the construction of Baltic Pipe by Gaz-System. I would like to ask about the company itself, which is to be the realist of this investment, Saipem Limited. The company is well known to the Polish government and Gaz-System, because the company has already implemented an investment in Poland related to the construction of the gasport in Świnoujście. The result of this investment was that the company was significantly late in implementing this investment. The case was also brought to the arbitration tribunal. I would like to know whether the proceedings before the arbitration tribunal have been concluded and, if so, with what result This proceeding has been terminated. That's one thing. Secondly, during the implementation of the investment concerning the construction of the gasport regarding delay some media related to the PiS, but also some of the PiS politicians said that the company is late because it is carrying out another large project, concerning among others. construction of Nord Stream II on behalf of a Russian company, i.e. Gazprom. I would like to know: is this company really carrying out investments related to the construction of this gas pipeline through the Baltic Sea; is it carrying out other projects related to the construction of the gas pipeline, through the Black Sea; is there any other projects, investments carried out by Saip on behalf of Gazprom; and is there no concern on the part of the Polish government that the company may not carry out this project within the terms of the contract? I would also like to know: who else took part in the proceedings concerning the implementation of this great investment, the construction of Baltic Pipe; under what conditions was the company selected; for what amount and by what date is this investment to be carried out? I ask this, because it is public money, it is an undertaking which is important for the energy security of Poland, so all this information concerning the choice of the company should be completely transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-05-13-senat-10-4.u288	Thank you, Senator. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 10th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Labour Office, room 255. The tenth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland of the 10th term of office is closed. [[End of session at 1 minute 26]]
