ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u1	I open the 16th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I will appoint Senators Victor Durlak and Richard Świlski to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers in the Senate sitting room will be led by Senator Ryszard Świlski. Senator Victor Durlak will lead the list of speakers in room 217. Dear Senators, in connection with the outbreak, I have decided, after consulting the Senior Convention, to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held at the same time in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication, i.e. remotely. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. Your senators meeting in the sitting room and in room 217, please sign up for questions and to speak in a discussion with the senators of the Secretaries. I would remind you that in the sitting room it will be Senator Ryszard Śvilski, and in room 217, Senator Victor Durlak. Mr Senators, please also pass on legislative proposals, speeches in discussions and statements to the Secretaries. I'm also asking you not to move between the salami. Both speaking and voting are possible from the places that you occupy. Please do not run applications in the iPad within the Senate building. Do all States in the sitting room and in room 217 have excluded applications for remote participation in the meeting? If not, do it. Your Senators taking part in the meeting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the vote, which merely aims to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling, Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." Then you should press the "Transmit" button twice or in some tablets "Submit" after the vote: in the voting window and in response to the confirmation question. I ask for a vote and I ask you to include the voting machine. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. 87 senators and so many senators voted right now... [[Voting No 1]] [[Mr. Marshal, I have a problem with the vote upstairs in room 217.]] What's the problem? [[A few people cannot vote.]] And some of it, maybe? [[Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please check that the cards are well placed in the readers. My card today the third time... the flashlight went green the third time. Is there a green light on? If we repeat this vote, then... I'm asking for a signal if everyone's got a green light on the card that's in the reader. [[Mr. Marshal, I suggest we vote again, because now some senators have no lights on.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Just because they don't blink the voting buttons right now, that's okay. There's a red or orange or green diode next to the card seat. It's right when it's green. [[Well, it looks a little different with us, and there's no diode like that, Mr. Marshal.]] Wait upstairs for a minute. I'm declaring a three-minute break for your IT guy to check on the situation. After the break, we will vote again to make sure that all voters can cast their votes. All right, let's take a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 09 to 11 minutes 14]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. According to the information provided in room 217, everything's all right now. I would ask you to take your seats because we will once again hold a vote which is intended only to establish a list of senators attending the sitting. I therefore ask that the voting device be activated and that any vote be given in order to confirm the presence. Please state the results of the vote. I see there's more votes now from room 217, but there's one less, in general, because there are 86 senators. I hope this is caused by a temporary distance from the voting machine. I state that 86 senators took part in the vote. [[Voting No 2]] I inform you that the Sejm adopted part of the Senate's amendments at its 17th meeting on 17 September 2020: to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws; to the Act amending the Law on the Specific Rules for the Removal of Legal Effects of Reprivatization Decisions on Warsaw Real Estates, issued in violation of the law, the Commercialisation Act and certain Rights of Workers and the Act on Real Estate Management. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 14th Senate meeting in accordance with the Senate Rules of Procedure are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. High Senate, I inform you that on 10 August 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers handed over to the Senate a document on the implementation in 2019 of the Act of 9 June 2011 on support for family and foster care. This document is contained in print No 181. On 11 August 2020, I sent information to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. The Commission took note of the document and informed me of it. Senators, I would like to inform you that, in accordance with the decision of the Senior Convention, this meeting will continue on 13 October this year. The draft agenda was placed on senator benches. The draft agenda, which was sent to you by electronic means, contained a point: the Law amending the Animal Protection Act and certain other laws. In view of the failure of the Senate committees to prepare their reports on the matter, this point was not included in the draft agenda for approval by the Senate. Following the preparation of the reports by the committees on the agenda, this item will be added to the agenda on 13 October. I propose that points two, three, six, eight to eleven and point thirteen of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on these laws have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. High Senate, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: second reading of the draft resolution in the 45th anniversary of the movement of Third Age Universities in Poland and consider it as item one of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I propose that the following points be changed: the amendment of the Rail Transport Act and the review of it as the second item; this was the sixth point of the agenda; the amendment of the Emergency Notification System Act and its consideration as the third point; this was the fifth point of the agenda so far; the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2019 together with the Information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2019 and its consideration as the fourth point; this was the eleventh point of the agenda; information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2019. It was the 12th item of the agenda; the Act amending the Act on the National Media Council This was the tenth item of the agenda so far; information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance and the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. This was the 13th item on the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I state that the Senate approved the agenda for the 16th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that immediately after the examination of the first point, i.e. The second reading of the draft resolution in the 45th anniversary of the Third Century University movement will take place a vote on this matter. Other votes on the items will be held at the end of the second day of the meeting, i.e. September 30th this year Tomorrow, at the request of the Ministry between 11:00 and 13:00 p.m., we will consider the fourteenth item, i.e. the information of the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the state of Polish diplomacy. Tomorrow, too, point 12 of the Medical Fund Act will be considered. We begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 45th anniversary of the movement of Third Age Universities in Poland. Welcome to the meeting of Ms Krystyna Lewkowicz, President of the Civic Parliament of Seniors. [[Applause]] Hello, Mr Irena Moskal, Anna Davidowicz, Teresa Bojanowicz, Jolanta Osinska, Lucina Wasilewska, Elżbieta Rubinstein, Barbara Korlak, Sławomira Pieńkowska, Zofia Nicka and Mr Michał Szczerba, President of the Parliamentary Group for. Universities of the Third Age, as well as other visitors. [[Applause]] The draft resolution under consideration was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No 218. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorised representative of the applicants, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! And in a special way: Our Guests, Representatives and Representatives of the Third Century University Movement! Seneca wrote that the heart she loves will never grow old. In your case, the mind will never grow old, looking for answers to questions, and this is the essence of the universities of the third century, where you seek answers to various questions. You're looking for answers to various questions, representing a vast community. Today according to the Central Statistical Office in Poland we have 9.5 million people over 60 years of age. In 2050 it will be about 14 million Poles and Poles. You found the answer to the question of how to activate, how to propose an interesting formula of joint work, common education of Polish seniors. The resolution which I have the honour to present, also as Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group on. Universities of the Third Age, reminds that in 2020 marks the forty-fifth anniversary of establishing the first university in Poland of the third century. Its initiator and founder was Prof. Halina Szwarc, a doctor, academic lecturer and social worker, an extraordinary woman, because only such an initiative could take place. Prof. Halina Szwarc could give her life to a whole group of people. He is a person who volunteered during World War II to work in the conspiracy of the Armed Fighting Union. By order of the Polish Command she signed a volkslist and, referring to German roots, went to Germany, where she conducted intelligence work, recognizing among others. location of military facilities in Hamburg, which enabled them to be destroyed. For this she received an English award. She also worked in the Berlin Military Medicine Archives and reported the distribution of German troops on the basis of the data collected there. In 1944, she was detained. She was tortured and sentenced to death by shooting. Luckily, the sentence wasn't executed. After the war she was also tortured, harassed, accused of collaborating, this time by the Public Security Office. But it was this person, a person with such rich experience and luggage of difficult issues that she had to deal with, who took the initiative to set up a third-century university movement. Poland was one of the first countries in the world, and we are located right after France, in which the movement of universities of the third century was established. This idea first appeared in 1975 at the Postgraduate Medical Center in Warsaw. It is Prof. Halina Szwarc that we owe to the dynamic development of the movement of universities of the third century, the development on an absolutely unprecedented scale in any other country in the world. Founded in Warsaw's Bielany, the third-century university was the second such undertaking in Europe. Currently in Poland there are over 600 of them, and they have a total of about 200 thousand listeners and listeners. The success of the third-century university movement is a result of the skills of Professor Halina Szwarc, who was able to predict long-term consequences and plan well. The third-century university community was the initiator of the development of senior policy in Poland A policy co-created with the government, with the Sejm, with the Senate, with local authorities, as well as organised activities of older people in local environments, as well as at regional and national level. Thank you very much for this. Today we host not only Mrs Krystyna Lewkowicz, but also other initiators, founders, imaginators, people involved in the organization of universities of the third century in Warsaw and in the country. Thank you very much, ladies. The Senate of the Republic of Poland is convinced of the special role of universities of the third century in contemporary Poland and of their key role in the activity and education of older people. Today we pay tribute to an exceptional woman, Professor Halina Szwarc. We thank all those who co-create the movement of universities in the third century. Earlier, I had the opportunity to cooperate personally with you as Minister of Justice and as President of the Supreme Audit Chamber. For me, it was amazing that universities of the third century operate not only in big cities but also in small towns. Those involved in their work are looking for answers to various questions, showing that wanting to understand the world is not something that accompanies us only when we are young. This desire can accompany us all our lives. Thank you very much. The honor for the second chamber of the Polish Parliament is that we can celebrate, commemorate, recall this important anniversary, the forty-fifth anniversary of the establishment of the first university of the third century, and above all thank you for co-created this wonderful idea in our country. Thank you and congratulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u3	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the authorised representative of applicants. No such questions. Then I'll open the discussion. Senator Halin Poor was the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u4	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! As has already been said, the number of people of post-production age is constantly increasing. Today there are more than 20% of them. We have over 600 universities in the third century where we study over 200,000 listeners. I think this activity will continue to grow. Thank you very much to all the initiators. I am pleased that all clubs have submitted such a draft resolution in accordance with and unanimously. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to congratulate you very warmly, on your best wishes for continued activity, for as it was once said, we have been learning throughout our lives. Maybe all you need to do is... and encourage, I think, you gentlemen to be more active, because nearly 80% of the students at third-century universities are women. So that we invite you to more activity as well. And there's a lot of activity. This is volunteering, these are lectures, courses, cultural activities, physical activities, ITs can be exchanged forever. I congratulate the listeners once again, congratulate those who run these universities of the third century, and I appeal to them to support them because I think the idea is worth the support. I think that we, all the senators, for our part, declare such support and willingness to cooperate. And since October 1st is usually the beginning day of the academic year, so vivat Academia, vivant professores! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u5	Thank you very much, Senator. Professor, Senator Alicia Chybick, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Delightful guests! I am very pleased that such a resolution will be adopted by the Senate in a moment. Why? Because as a doctor, I can say one thing: universities of the third century are priceless in every way. There are several in Wroclaw, at practically every university. I had the privilege of teaching at the university of the third century, and when I looked at the faces of the listeners who were smiling, women were hairy, painted, prepared to go out, I knew that in terms of health, both mental and physical health, it was priceless. This idea was priceless, this resolution is absolutely necessary and gives back what universities of the third century do. Thank you very, very much and I hope that the resolution will be adopted by the acclamation. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u7	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Venerable Guests and those who connect with us via the Internet! I would like to begin by thanking Senator Kwiatkowski and applicants for this valuable initiative. I would also like to share this reflection. Well, I'm the senator. from northern Mazowsze. Among the 600 universities mentioned in the draft resolution, 114 are in the Mazowieckie Voivodeship. Well, of course, here is the greatest demographic potential, the largest area potential and those universities in Mazowsze, in the Mazowieckie voivodship is the most. We usually focus on third-century universities in big cities, where there are academic centers where there are very interesting lectures, lectures, mainly some language-related activities, intellectual activity, meetings with interesting people, medical advice, some issues related to widely understood medicine. But I would like to pay particular attention to universities of the third century in smaller environments, not in big cities. As it happens, I am a senator from the Ciechanian subregion and in my constituency there are universities of the third century in Przasnysz, Mława, Ciechanów, Żuromin. Usually these universities work very well with government administration, but above all with local government, because the headquarters of these universities are urban or municipal cultural centres, places which are such a space managed by the local government. This cooperation usually works very well, excellently, because local authorities perfectly understand the need for activity, especially in centres in rural areas, where there are not many attractions that could specifically activate and connect people of senior age. From this point of view, this initiative is of all means valuable and beneficial. I know very many seniors who, thanks to the universities of the third century, find themselves in a new role after a period of professional activity, a very intense period. It's important to them, because it's not like building an environment. I will also say that there are often political disputes, discussions at the meetings I go to. This is also, you can say, an element of civic education, because seniors at meetings with people who perform various public functions, and in the local government, and in parliament, and in other public institutions, take up different topics. Finally, I would like to thank the applicants once again and to welcome the fact that the Senate is dealing with this problem. At the same time, I would like to congratulate all universities that take such measures, or organisations that animate the activities of third-century universities, and to say that this is an excellent form of activating seniors after a period of professional activity. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to join in with the expressions of respect for the movement that you have created and which works with such benefit. Senator Kwiatkowski started with Seneca's words about vitality. I want to say that the vitality of the older generation is simply needed for younger generations, not just for him, but for society as a whole. We are talking here with such conviction that this is an extremely creative initiative. I want to talk about one idea. Some of us came to the Senate directly from the European Parliament, who in the previous term had the feeling that although not all EU programmes have been successful, Erasmus has been very successful. In the margins of the debate on Erasmus for the young generation, an idea was expressed, which might be worth considering, perhaps the Senate could put this into circulation in the European Union, suggesting the European Union The idea to create a similar programme for the exchange of university seniors, i.e. Erasmus senior. [[Applause]] This is a general European phenomenon. Older people not only have the right to travel, but also often travel with more sense than younger ones. This is an opportunity to build relationships between nations, to get to know each other. I take this under consideration, I suggest that we think of a resolution that will propose the institutions of the European Union and the national parliaments of the European Union to mobilise Erasmus for senior citizens as a further step in this excellent initiative. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u11	Thank you very much. I would like to remind you that at the initiative of Poland a specialization for European oncology was created. At the initiative of Poland, a third-century university programme can also be established at European level. It's an extremely valuable initiative. Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. In view of the covid situation, I'll allow myself to speak from the spot. I would like to thank our guests very warmly for this over 40-year-old work, and to invoke, in the spirit of what Senator Jackowski was talking about, for example, from my own constituency. Many times I have been a guest of meetings of the university of the third century, in various localities, and I have some experience. I've met many times with a situation where people in a given village, seniors, said: you know, we don't have a third-century university yet, but we're doing everything we can to start a university like this. And even in a situation where the municipality did not meet all the criteria so that it could form, a subsidiary of the university of the third century of the neighbouring municipality was created. I have seen how much commitment it has been fought to make such a branch, and with what kind of kindness those who have already had a full-length university of the third century have sought to have a branch with their neighbors. So I think on the one hand this is your work, and on the other hand is this huge desire to share your experience with others. For this very fact, for these more than 40 years and for this huge number of universities of the third century, which, to tell you the truth, was budging in the first initiative, I would like to thank you very warmly to our guests. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u13	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz will speak, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u14	Can you hear me right now? [[I can hear you.]] As a longtime lecturer in literature, history and theatre, I congratulate and thank you. That's all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u15	Thank you, Senator. This is a fine example of conciseness, not of quickness of speech. Thank you very much. Gos will take Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u16	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I, like my previous speakers, would like to thank you. I deal with many seniors on a daily basis, also on the occasion of contacts with senior councils and local government. What these people do every day for their own environment is very important and requires great respect from us. However, they have such a general problem that many things that are costly for them, such as. The trips, they cover out of their own pockets. We, the Senate, who has a legislative initiative, should lean on this in the future in order to regulate the financing of what our senior citizens in our cities, in our local governments, are doing as part of senior policy. Thank you very much and thank you for your long work for seniors in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u17	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u18	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear guests! I will speak in connection with a colleague of Senator Kazik Michał Ujazdowski. We were in the European Parliament together. He has indeed raised a very important issue about Erasmus+ for the elderly, the students of the universities of the third century. I would just like to supplement this with the important data that have emerged in recent Erasmus+ meetings for the years after 2020, which is after this year that we have today. There are 2 very important entries that are already on the agenda of the Committee on Culture and Sport. Well, there is already a recommendation for the third century university, very interesting, including a programme on the mobility of older people. It is a project that has been prepared differently, with separate financial resources. This programme is not yet being tested because we are dealing with a pandemic. It was considered that during the 2021 Erasmus+ pandemic, the nearest one, could pose a certain threat to the elderly. But it is indeed worth supporting the initiative of a fellow senator, because we are on very vulnerable ground. A recommendation has been made, the programme is located in the area of mobility of older people, and the budget for 2020 is also separate and proposed2027. Let me remind you that the Erasmus+ programme will be increased more than 2-fold during this period. And the program addressed to the elderly comes up for the first time. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear guests! I'm on behalf of the local government. I would like to thank you very much for these years of cooperation. I also started a third-century university in my town, and I always said a little sarcasm: one day I'll join you. And today, without sarcasm, I say, "I'll join you." Happy birthday, and thank you for everything. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u21	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The discussion is closed. We are voting on a draft resolution in the 45th anniversary of the movement of Third Age Universities in Poland. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voice from the room: Anyone against it?]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] 90 senators voted, 89 for, 1 against, no abstentions. [[Voting No 3]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 45th anniversary of the Third Age University movement in Poland. I ask you to approach the Presidency table, President of the Civic Parliament of Seniors, Ms Krystyna Lewkowicz. I'd like to give you a resolution. [[Everybody up.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u22	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! This is a great day for our environment, because universities of the third century are, you can say, the leading force of all seniors. In all initiatives, in all major projects, universities of the third century have always been, you can say, a locomotive. This day is particularly important to us because it also allows us, thanks to Mr Marshal and you, to regain our dignity. You will recall that in 2016 seniors were expelled from parliament. Today's plenary session with a resolution scheduled for 1 October, also in the Parliament's building, is extremely important to us. Thank you very much on behalf of over 9.5 million Polish seniors. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm declaring a three-minute break. I invite the university representatives to the marshal's office. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 48 to 11 minutes 54]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u24	We proceed with the second agenda: amendment of the Rail Transport Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 205 and the committee's report In print No 205 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u25	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! It has been my honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure a law amending the law on rail transport, implementing the so-called law into the Polish legal order. Technical part of the 4th railway package. The aim of the Act is to implement European Union law. The purpose of the Law amending the Railway Transport Act is to partially implement technical pillar IV of the Railway Package, which includes the implementation into national law of Directive No 797 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2016 on the interoperability of the rail system in the European Union in the notified body part. As a general rule, the deadline for the implementation of this Directive was 16 June 2019 and Member States could use a one-off extension by 1 year, subject to notification to the European Commission in good time. Poland, like most of the Member States of the European Union, benefited from the extension and therefore the deadline for implementing technical pillar IV of the railway package was set at 16 June 2020. Following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, Directive No 700 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 May 2020 extended the deadline for implementation until 31 October 2020. In line with the European Commission's view, it is necessary to recognise the notification of that body on the basis of the Directive to demonstrate that a Member State has implemented Chapter VI of the Notified Bodies Directive in national law, i.e. provisions from Article. Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to and from Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 to Article 27 45. In view of these factors, a decision was made on the two-step implementation of the technical pillar IV of the railway package. The transposition of Chapter VI of the 2016 Directive, Directive No 797, was first ensured in order to allow individuals to be notified on the basis of that Directive. This law therefore implements Chapter VI of Directive No 797 of 2016 on the interoperability of the rail system, concerning the activities of notified bodies and bodies designated to carry out the assessment procedures for certified railway vehicles and structural subsystems, i.e. railway infrastructure elements. The key amendments to the Railway Transport Act are, first, linked to the addition of a requirement for legal personality by applicants for notification of conformity assessment bodies. Secondly, with the addition of new requirements relating to the conformity assessment procedure and the issuing of verification certificates under the Directive. Third, with the addition of provisions governing the designation and operation of the designated bodies referred to in Article. 45 directives. The draft law was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 11 August 2020. It's a 562 sejm print. Its first reading took place in the Committee on Infrastructure. Members rejected the 2 amendments tabled to the draft at second reading. The Act was finally adopted on 17 September 2020 in a form that takes into account the position of the Infrastructure Commission. 436 Members voted in favour of the bill, 12 against, and no one abstained. The Senate Infrastructure Commission considered the law at its meeting yesterday and requested the adoption of the law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u26	Thank you, Senator. Currently, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the Senator for the bill we are working on. Senator Alexander Swed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u27	Thank you. You can hear me, right? [[Yes, we can hear you.]] Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I have a question for you about the bill under review. The technical pillar of the 4th railway package, which you mentioned, envisages strengthening the role of the European Union Railway Agency, which takes over some of the competences of national safety authorities in the Member States of the European Union. In the case of Poland, this authority is the President of the Office for Railway Transport. I have a question as to whether, at the committee meeting, you raised the following question: in connection with the entry into force of the Act, what additional tasks does the President of the Railway Transport Office have and in what cases may the President extend the powers of designated persons? Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u28	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u29	We didn't talk about it at the committee meeting. Well, it's a possibility, but it all depends on the European guidelines.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u30	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Andrzej Bittel like to speak on the bill under consideration? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator Lamczyk has made an excellent approximation of the scope of the bill, so I will no longer repeat it. I would like to thank you for speeding up the examination of this point, because that is what I asked for and that is very important. I'm ready to answer questions. And I'm asking for a possible bill to be passed without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u32	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any such questions? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first point is a general matter. As of the date of entry into force of the Act... Well, it's a very short term, we usually give 14 days. Will the entities that will be required by this law be able to prepare for the implementation of this law? Because she, practically speaking, becomes the law at the time of publication. And the second thing, actually, basically for me, well, pure private. Minister, the average citizen isn't interested in what the arrangements are, but whether the railroad arrives on time. Minister, check how many times the train that leaves Opole at 6:36 p.m. this is a pendolino that should be... well, I don't know what to call it... well, specially-loved, he was late and arrived in Warsaw with a delay of more than an hour. Well, maybe it'll sort of give you an idea of whether or not it'll bring up the average traveler's problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, is that the question you want to get an answer for how do you answer it: right now or in writing? [[Let's make it in writing. We'll check it out. Well, maybe since that train was reactivated after the pandemic.]] Thank you very much. There are no more questions. Thank you, Minister... [[Okay, but there was a first question.]] I'll answer the first question. Oh, okay, okay. And if you can answer the second question right now, I will, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u35	The second question, when it comes to detailed statistics, would be harder for me to answer. I can answer by looking through the prism of my holiday experience, because I used this train very often on Sunday evening... i.e. Sunday at 6:30. Then he was generally not too late, and certainly not more than an hour. But, of course, we're going to prepare this statistics, and I'm going to be happy to give it to the senator, and I'm going to get to know her myself. As far as the answer to the first question is concerned, I am sure that those entities which fall within the scope of the Act expect it to be adopted as soon as possible and will be able to adapt immediately to it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u36	Thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much.]] There are no more questions. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the senators Alexander Swed and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Emergency Notification System. The text of the Act is contained in print No 204 and the report of the Commission In print No 204 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Andrzej Pajak, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u37	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! On behalf of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, I have the honour to present a report on yesterday's meeting of the committee on which the law on amending the emergency notification system was discussed. This amendment concerns the amendment of the Law of 22 November 2013 on the emergency notification system. The main and fundamental objective of this law on amending the Emergency Notification System Act is to modernise it, correct it, amend it to make the notification system more efficient and that the notification to be made to the intervention services to provide assistance is as efficient as possible as possible, as soon as possible. I'm gonna let you take a little tour of history. Just when I was an old-fashioned Susian, then these CPRs were created, they were created at the level of the county. Their uprising was the result of the experience of local government officials who had to deal directly with various topics, related to car accidents or other random events. My county survived, for example. Such a big flood, it was 2001. It was a flood on a national scale, because then the landslips were, and even the houses were collapsing. Underground. Then we at the county level were in favour of such district emergency call centers being. And they were created. Notabene, when it comes to the district of Suski, I remember that he was second in Małopolska, after Tarnów. These centers were functioning. I think the beginning was very good, they worked very well. Later, in 2014, under the 2013 Act, a certain commatisation was started with regard to the construction of the centres. The Advocate, as I remember, of this bill, of the building of larger centers, no longer of the county, and on the scale of the voivodship, was the then Minister for Administration, Mr Jerzy Miller. He's the one who's been putting these centers together. I think that it started to work differently at the time, because they were, for example. such cases that there was an accident, there was a problem in Stryszawa, but there is information that the problem is in Stryszów, and these are municipalities completely distant from each other, located in different powiats. There was, for example. Sulkowic problem. Some Sułkowice are in the Thinking District and the others are in the Wadowice District. And it also happened that they were mistaken, they went not to this place, there was even a fatal case. So it has its drawbacks, it creates problems. Therefore, I think that a very fundamental and very valuable issue is that the government is now reporting some adjustments, some amendments, some changes to make the emergency notification system perfect, make it more transparent and more efficient. The main, essential objectives of this law on amending the Act on the emergency notification system is to respond to the necessity, to the need to make changes in the organisation and functioning of emergency saying centers. Its aim is to reorganise tasks related to the preparation and training of workers of emergency saying centres. Next: introducing surveillance, so to speak, central at both local and central level. The aim is to set up a centre called KCMSPR, the National Monitoring Centre for the Emergency Notification System. It's to coordinate it and have it under full surveillance. The next item is the regulation of issues related to the operation of the mobile app, the 112-alarm system, for the transmission of alarm calls in the form of short text messages. These tasks are described very closely in the new law, in this law amending the law, because, as I have already mentioned here, the main purpose of this law is to improve the availability of emergency notification and to maximise the waiting time for the emergency service to react and thus increase the safety of citizens and increase the efficiency of the service's cooperation. There is also a subject related to employees, operators, coordinators, because so far these personnel are lacking. The promotion of employees who were included in this was small But there were no great opportunities to do so, because the workers of the emergency call centers were outside the civilian service corps. And this law just gives the opportunity to new posts, introduces new positions, such as the operator Well, that's what it's been like so far. Senior operator, coordinator, trainer coordinator. That's gonna make sure there's some way to promote these employees. Besides, it's written out exactly what is the recruitment of operators, what training needs to be, who's supposed to do it. The tasks of the National Monitoring Centre for Emergency Notification System are described in detail, so it kind of complements the regulations, makes this notification system more transparent and certainly improves it. What's it gonna be like in the future? Is this gonna work? It is known that such topics are best said, verified and corrected in direct action, but I am talking about this with the hope that this bill will improve the current emergency notification system. The bill comes from a government proposal. In the Seym she passed unanimously, I don't think there was a vote against it. As far as the Senate committee is concerned, her discussion was very brief. There were only the legislator's comments on this first job for six months, but such an amendment was not accepted, it was not tabled. The law without controversy was adopted by all the members of the committee, so they all voted unanimously. And on behalf of this committee, I ask the High Senate to adopt a law without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u38	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Are there any such questions? I don't see any calls. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would Minister Paweł Chezernaker like to take the floor on the bill under consideration? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In the Senator's report, practically all the relevant issues have been raised. I would like to add that we are actually working on a mechanism that will help us improve this system as much as possible. Because there are indeed advantages and disadvantages of the operation of emergency call centers at this moment in such a form rather than in any other form. Surely the plus in the days of Coronavirus is that if we have diseases in one place, then the phones in this case can be switched to another point, thanks to the fact that it is all unified and the procedures all look the same. And it is indeed possible to replace them, so that in a situation where telephones are occupied in one place, it is also possible to redirect them so that they can be handled as soon as possible. Speed is extremely important here. And that's the extraordinary plus that it's functioning in one way, not another. For your information: 10 seconds. This is the average waiting time for the operator to answer the phone. Thank you very much to the Senate Committee for its work, for the fact that this draft was put in plenary without amendments. Thank you to the Sejm's legislation department. I thank the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who have been preparing this bill for a long time. I'm glad we can work on it in such consensus.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u40	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Are there any questions? There isn't. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the Chamber: There are no votes in the discussion.]] I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senators Alexander Swed, Benjamin Godyla and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm declaring a moment's technical recess. We'll wait for the Chairman of the National Council. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 17 to 12 minutes 33]] We proceed with the joint consideration of the fourth and fifth agenda points: the report of the National Radio and Television Council on its activities in 2019 together with the Information on basic radio and television problems in 2019; Information on the activities of the National Media Council in 2019. The text of the report of the National Radio and Television Council is contained in print No 140 and the information of the National Media Council In print No 144. The reports of the Committee on Culture and Media on these documents are contained in prints 140 S and 144 S. I would like to welcome the President of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, to the Senate meeting. Mr. Chairman, we've been waiting 10 minutes for you. Is your watch wrong? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: No...]] Is he late? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: It was necessary, Mr. Marshal, to set such a deadline and an hour... I should have been informed accordingly.]] And you didn't know there was going to be a sitting? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Yes, but these two days...]] Okay... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: This was the only information I had, Mr. Marshal, and I am unfortunately not... I also have other classes and I can't wait by the phone for two days or before the Senate when you kindly wish to invite me.]] But... [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: This situation is repeated once again. There is no agenda before, there is no indication of when the item will be, we only have instant information about the general date of the Senate meeting... It is really difficult to hope that later all organizations will reschedule their entire calendar to wait for the decision of the Senate leadership.]] Mr President, this presentation was based on the proposals of the various ministers who asked for their points to be moved. Therefore, I will make a proposal not to take account of such ministerial proposals at all. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: You have to give the right authorities a chance to prepare and...]] There you go, Mr President, please take the floor. Come here. Of course, you can speak from the point of view, if you like, but I think it would be more convenient for you to answer any questions from here. [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Good. Can you hear me from that microphone?]] It sounds good.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u41	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The National Radio and Television Council presents its activity report for the previous year, i.e. in this case for 2019, together with information about the state of the media market in Poland. These 2 documents are very extensive, count several hundred pages, so that even résumé is a comprehensive document. Because at the sitting of the Senate Committee I presented in quite detail not the report itself and the information itself, and just discussing these two documents, which took so long, and the senators expressed their dissatisfaction that I have been reporting these points for so long, and therefore I propose that today I go straight to the discussion, because I think it was a long time to get to know these documents, and the committee members listened to very detailed information about these documents. If that's your will, of course. I will present and discuss these two documents, but I think it would be good to go straight to the next points in order to meet your expectations.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u42	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President in connection with this report. Would any of you like to ask such a question? There are no questions for the president. I would like to welcome the president of the National Media Council to the Senate... [[Voice from the room: absent.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] ...Mr. Krzysztof Czabanski, but he's not here. He wasn't at the committee meeting either. Therefore, I am not asking the President to speak and present the information. The Senators cannot now submit questions to Mr Czabański about this information from a place of no more than a minute's duration... [[Voice from the room: Question?]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka.]] There you go, Senator Barbara Boris-Damian... But, Senator, Mr. Czabanski is not here. [[I'm on a formal issue.]] Please...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u43	Mr. Marshal, it's hard to ask questions to the absent. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the next absence of representatives of the National Media Council confirms our repeated allegations of the senselessness of the establishment of the National Media Council which took place and of the lack of any significance of the activities of the National Media Council. It's just a dead organ, called up for a particular person, so that it can make a certain, high sum. And that's it. Once again, I would like to stress that it is high time for us to join the debate on the appeal, the liquidation of the National Media Council as a non-essential body. The state is reorganizing, the authorities are considering reducing the number of ministries, staff of the Council of Ministers, etc. We really should lean on the problem of functioning, actually meaningless functioning, the failure of the National Media Council, which has taken over part of the responsibilities of the National Radio and Television Council, does not fulfil these responsibilities and does not know what it does. And the fact that no member of the 5th National Media Council is present at committee meetings or at plenary meetings is one big scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u44	Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u45	I join this negative reflection by Senator Boris-Damięcka. Mr Marshal, I propose that we now order a recess or a change in the agenda items so that the Senate Bureau can meet and agree on what to do in such a situation. In my opinion, the Senate cannot and should not be indifferent to the situation in which representatives of the institutions of the state Not private companies, but institutions of the state They treat the Senate with such obvious disregard for the seriousness of the Polish parliament. The Senate is part of the Polish parliament, not a stranger. In the Polish country, mutual respect of state institutions is required, especially in the case of such an institution as the Senate. I propose that we consider taking appropriate action in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u46	Thank you, Senator. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 42 to 12 minutes 47]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u47	I'm extending the recess by 15 minutes until 1:02 p.m. Members of the Senior Convention to my office, please. [[Adjournment from 12 minutes 47 to 13 minutes 02]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u48	I'm reopening the session. I would like to say that the Senior Convention has gathered in connection with the absence of Mr Czabański and has stated that every office should implement the law and that it must comply with the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which regulates relations between the government and us. The Convention and the Marshal will ask in writing to clarify the absence of President Czabański. I appeal to all senators to take care of the Senate's authority together. This kind of situation is undermining the Senate's authority. And it is a request that the care of senate authority extends to all political groups and circles in the Senate. And now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Ewa Matecka, to submit a report to the committee on the report of the National Radio and Television Council of its activities in 2019 and to submit a report to the committee on the activities of the National Media Council in 2019.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u49	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Communications on the report of the National Radio and Television Council in 2019. On 2 June 2020, the Senate Marshal sent to the committee a report from the National Radio and Television Council of its activities in 2019 together with information on the basic problems of radio and television in 2019; Senate printing No 140. After hearing the information of the members of the National Radio and Television Council and after the discussion, the committee shall present a draft resolution of the Senate in which it requests that the report of the National Radio and Television Council be rejected from its activities in 2019. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you...Will the senator justify...]] Yeah, yeah. High Izbo! The meeting of the Committee on Culture, which discussed the report of the National Radio and Television Council, was attended by the Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council and members of the National Radio and Television Council. Since it was also a meeting devoted to information from the activities of the National Media Council, representatives of the Bronisław Komorowski Institute, representatives of the Collegium Citivas, representatives of the Kozminski Academy, representatives of the Council of Media Ethics, representatives of the Journalist Society and the Sensitive Festival, the Batory Foundation and one representative of the National Media Council, were also at our meeting. Unlike the National Radio and Television Council, this meeting was not attended by the President of the National Media Council. I will now refer to the report of the National Radio and Television Council. In the discussion, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, President of the National Radio and Television Council, first spoke and briefly drew attention to the main issues included in the report presented to the committee. I'll discuss some of the most important ones. He drew attention to the limited competence of the National Radio and Television Council in the field of human resources policy in public media for the benefit of the National Media Council. He discussed the statutory tasks carried out by the National Radio and Television Council, which mainly focus on concession proceedings, control over the activities of broadcasters, subscription fees, the determination of their amount and further division, the organisation of international cooperation and participation in legislative work. The President raised the question of the need to amend the Act on the National Council of Radiophony and Television and to give it competence to decide on public media personnel policy and this was a reference to the failure of the Constitutional Tribunal's judgment of 13 December 2016. The report is very comprehensive and very detailed, but the greatest attention, in particular to all invited experts and guests, has raised a number of issues relevant to the activities of the National Radio and Television Council. Experts, invited guests mainly stressed that the National Council of Radiophony and Television, in accordance with the Constitution and the Act on the National Council of Radiophony and Television, is to uphold the freedom of the media and pluralism of the media, and the transfer of competences in the field of personnel policy to the Council of National Media does not exempt the National Council of Radiophony and Television from this obligation. All experts, invited guests, also drew attention to media pluralism records and a specific way of interpreting this pluralism, as the report describes its risk arising from the concentration of capital. It has been suggested and stated that such an approach to pluralism is in conflict with international standards and with the provisions of the Constitution, and the duty of the National Media Council is to take care of internal pluralism in public media, especially now that these media are so generously given special grants from the state budget. Let me remind you that this is about PLN 4 billion so far. A great deal of attention has been paid to the ethics of journalists and the increasing number of complaints about the unethical attitude of journalists and the failure of the media in the public interest. Guests, and in particular representatives of the Journalist Society, also raised a very important issue, which concerned the results of the Supreme Audit Chamber's audit, namely the lack of research in monitoring the activities of public media, and consequently the reimbursement of 13 million PLN of unused funds for carrying out these studies. In the course of the discussion, there were also extremely frequent, suggestive, subjective propaganda and pro-government messages for the ruling party. In a word: lack of independence and lack of objectivity in shaping the programme by public broadcasters, especially during the election period. The report is, as I have already said, very extensive, it contains many previously described phenomena documented in graphic form. However, during the discussion at the committee meeting, we gave the greatest attention both to ethics and to the lack of publication of studies. So much for the report, Mrs Marshal. The Commission asks, as I said at the outset, that this report be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u50	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Me.]] Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. There you go. [[At the moment, we are considering two reports, including the National Media Council...]] [[Yes, I'll report in a moment.]] [[Oh, so... 'cause I have a question for this part.]] [[If you don't mind, Mrs. Marshal...]] So no questions, as I understand it? Not from room 217, either? Therefore, Senator, please report.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u51	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media on the activities of the National Media Council in 2019. On 15 June 2020, the Senate Marshal sent information to the committee on the activities of the National Media Council in 2019; Senate printing No 144. Following a hearing of a member of the National Media Council and after a discussion at its meeting on 30 June, the committee shall present a draft resolution of the Senate in which it requests that information on the activities of the National Media Council be rejected in 2019. Your Senate, in the committee meeting except for all the guests I mentioned earlier, he was the only representative of the National Media Council and, at the same time, the opposition representative, Mr Juliusz Braun. The President of the National Media Council, Mr Krzysztof Czabański, was absent, as I mentioned earlier. Mr Juliusz Braun, as a member of the National Media Council, presented his views on the report at the committee meeting and referred to very important and very important issues. What is most important in his statement is that the National Media Council has left the previously adopted way of appointing board members through a competition. Several examples have been given, including this very important one, namely the appeal and re-election of President Jack Kurski without a competition. There was also a lack of appropriate records on the cadence of boards and supervisory boards in company statutes. There was talk of a faulty rule of the National Media Council, limiting the rights of members of the Council. This was also mentioned. And it was pointed out as a very disturbing phenomenon. That the National Media Council does not attend meetings of supervisory boards of companies, that most decisions of the National Media Council are taken by a 3:2 relationship and that the votes of members representing the opposition are not taken into account. The Senators of the Committee on Culture pointed out during the discussion that the budget of the National Media Council was not adequately presented, in particular the reference of the budget from 2019 to previous years, which deprives us of the possibility of a reliable analysis, an assessment of the costs of activity. The lack of evaluation and analysis of the control activities and conclusions resulting from these controls has been indicated. There was a lack of information on how to handle intervention and how to arrange correspondence. And the demand for a decision on the liquidation of the National Media Council was reiterated as soon as possible. This meeting also questioned the HR policy of the National Media Council. The Commission unanimously expressed its dissatisfaction with the absence of the President of the National Media Council and did not take advantage of the proposal made at the end of the meeting by the representative of the President to draw up questions by the senators on this report in writing and to forward them to the President in writing. The senators of the committee did not take advantage of this suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u52	Thank you very much. I repeat that the current senators may report from a place lasting no more than a minute of question to the Senator of the rapporteur. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u53	Thank you. The rapporteur answered the question I wanted to ask, which is whether President Czabański was present or absent, and whether, if he was absent, he gave some excuse for his absence...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u54	Mr President was not present.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u55	Did he give any excuse for his absence?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u56	If I remember correctly, he was making excuses for the epidemic situation. I think that's why he wasn't there. But I don't know in what form it was presented, whether by phone or in writing. I don't remember that.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u57	Thank you very much. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, such a brief question about television access, mainly television, individual political groups. Do you have this thread... Well, the point is that diversity, uniformity of access is one of the foundations of reliable information. Have you ever discussed this subject? Was he presented, emphasized and analyzed by you as a committee?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u59	Thank you very much, Senator. Yes, a representative of the Journalist Society and a representative of the ethics board spoke about this for quite a long time. This unequal access was mentioned, there was a lack of reliability and objectivity in the presented materials, especially during the election period. Yes, this subject was discussed at this meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u60	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u61	Mrs. Senator, if you could clarify the senator's answer... what did the ethics board and the journalist's association think was about this lack of integrity? In any case, was this unreliability addressed to one social group, a political group, let's say, some praised, others blamed? Could you give us that information?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u62	Impreciseness concerned unequal broadcasting, as well as a lack of objective or objective presentation of the current situation. In media broadcasts, e.g. In the news, there was an emphasis on events that were less or less significant, and those that were not convenient were not presented. Hence, it was stressed at our committee's meeting that in such a situation the public media recipient it is unable to develop its own view of what is actually happening in the country, e.g. with regard to elections.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u63	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Is this non-objectism, or even, can you say... Oh, I'm not gonna say it. Was this non-objectism only about the political sphere, or was it also about the social groups? Were there any groups that public television liked? Well, it's trendy now about assaulting the LGBT group. In this regard, in relation to social groups, did the Council of Media Ethics and the Journalist Society point to non-objectism and some overexpression?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u65	Yes, it was discussed at the committee meeting, especially by the representatives of the Journalist Society and the Council of Media Ethics, who paid attention to the skillful manipulation of the news, which is revealed in such a way that rather reluctantly... Well, you hardly tell the truth about social and political events at all. When it comes to events that take place in our social life, it has also been said that such formulated messages can guide the world view of some people I refer whether it's LGBT-related matters or to other kinds of phenomena presented on television. and cause an exclusionary attitude towards certain environments.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u66	Thank you very much. Any of you have anything else you'd like to ask? [[Talking in the O.R.]] But only the senators... Senator Łyczak. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I'm addressing the senator. I would like to ask whether at the meeting the members of the committee did not find any fair communication of public media and whether it was possibly compared to commercial media, to how this information is transmitted there. Was this also discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u68	At the committee meeting, we did not deal with the programme or the mission of commercial media. We have only talked about the implementation of public media missions and how this mission is enshrined in both the Public Media Act and the Constitution. We talked about the extent to which this mission is being carried out by public media. [[I understand that your assessment of these media is very, very negative.]] Today we are considering a report on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council and a report on the activities of the National Media Council. These are state bodies. We are not dealing with any other report today.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u69	Thank you very much. Senator Alicia Chybick. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u70	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to ask if the committee meeting raised the issue of the impact of both the National Council and the media themselves on the perception of the pandemic of Coronavirus in Poland. Are the reports presented in the public media relating to pandemics adequate to the situation in which we are in? I'm afraid I have that feeling. And I watch different TVs and read different reports. The fact that the public media differ from the others is that they are somehow designing a different world. In this world of pandemics there is no more, this pandemic is disappearing and it is getting better, while hard data shows that it is not quite so. I would like to know if this was discussed at the committee meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u71	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u72	Thank you very much. At the committee meeting on information provided by the media on pandemics, we did not talk.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u73	Thank you very much. Any of your senators want to ask you another question? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a joint discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u74	Thank you very much. I'll start by thanking you. I would like to thank Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz for pointing out what is most important in such reports, namely the proper representation of those to whom this debate and this discussion should refer. I think it's extremely important. It's a good thing it's been strongly emphasized. I would like to draw attention to the fact that all the reports have an author, they have, in short, a rapporteur. This rapporteur should defend his report as well as answer questions that the senators would like to ask. It's not the first time the Senate's been in this situation. This was also the case with the Constitutional Tribunal. I must admit that I take this not only as a disregard for the Senate, but also as a disregard for all the voters who have entrusted us with a mandate. From my point of view, it's reprehensible, unacceptable, and it shouldn't be repeated. That's the first thing. Now the second thing I want to say. I would of course like to refer to 2019 as the reports cover this time. Observing the activity of these two institutions, I have the impression that the national radiophony council is rather a national advice to liquidate public media. I observe this especially with regard to the Radio Three, but also in the context of other elements of public media activity. I stress: public, those that should be public. As I have repeatedly emphasized as Minister of Culture, I treat public media as part of the Polish state's right. That's the way it's supposed to be. As big a country in Europe as Poland, with a multimillion-dollar nation, should have a sovereign, professional, objective, transparent group of public media, both television and radio. Unfortunately, it's not. I would like to stress that everything that is happening in the field of public media must cause far-reaching concern, as well as the conviction that this part of the Polish state is, I would say, severely damaged. I love the situation where questions arise from people representing the government about whether there is only false information on TVP Info or on Polish Radio. Of course not. There is also real information there. If they were only false, if there were only information about low credibility, there would be no doubt about their reading. I would like to make it clear that the way in which information policy is conducted in public media is such that it is extremely clever to intertwine true things with false, true, reliable opinions with unreliable ones. That's what I call it. dispersal of negative values among positive values, so as to lead to a certain effect of acceptance. I take this as a premeditated activity, with full awareness and to the detriment of the interests of the Polish state. Another thing I want to draw attention to, starting to defend the public media in their actual activity. Of course, no one, either from the opposition or from the watchdogs, expects the public media to be anti-state, to be primarily targeted at government institutions. That's not why there's public media. It is clear that, as a fragment of the Polish state, public institutions, they must carry out tasks which are in accordance with the interests of the Polish state. However, this does not mean practicing false propaganda, misinformation or acceptance of exclusion policy. I want to make it clear that I have repeatedly received public messages, programmes, opinions that have accepted exclusion policy, and that I have not mentioned them in the public media, because there are too many of them. Another thing that is extremely important to me in connection with this report is what your senator stressed, that the institutions that we are evaluating today have been extremely weak in carrying out tasks that are included either in the Constitution or in a specific law. I am surprised that the National Council is not protesting, not protesting, in my opinion, non-constitutional activities that deprive these institutions of their competence. It was not by chance that one of these institutions was included in the constitution, and it was not by accident that certain obligations were imposed on it. It is not able to fulfil them either because it is a de facto competitive institution or because it receives some part of the competence in a non-constitutional way. I do not imagine that the institutions that are included in the Constitution are impaired by the fact that the institutions have been set up by law, not by changes to the constitution, and this is the situation we are dealing with today. I also want to say a little bit about financial resources. During the period of entering into a serious financial crisis, it was decided to grant public television giant funds in the form of PLN 2 billion. These funds should, if already provided to public television, be used to improve the reliability, reliability and quality of the programmes for which the part to which these programmes are addressed is supported, i.e. the public. Unfortunately, it didn't happen. The financial resources have been used or are still being used to conduct policies that are very often not related to information. Finally, about expectations. I am, of course, in favour of eliminating the Council of National Media as soon as possible, precisely this non-constitutional institution that violates the powers of the institution which is referred to in the Constitution. I am in favour of regaining also those competences which involve the supervision of personalities. It is unacceptable for me to tolerate a situation in which financial results, but also those results which everyone pays attention to, i.e. audiences, are low, and in the case of the Three are simply dramatically low. For me, the attack in some cases by the heads of institutions themselves, who should take care of the condition of these entities, is a violation of the Polish state in culture. Throwing away journalists of the highest class, the greatest knowledge, professionals with the greatest sensitivity, the ability to reconcile various interests primarily in order to promote Polish culture without exclusion, without censorship, without speaking or anything on the charts is to be found or not... Unfortunately, with great regret, with some, I would say, drama in my emotions, I would like to say once again that, in my opinion, the institution that has been placed in the constitution to protect, defend, create public media is de facto the national advice to liquidate public media. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u75	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u76	We say, we've been repeating for several years, since PiS took over television and public radio, basically the same thing. I'm not gonna talk about what we saw this year during the presidential election. It was an extreme situation, extreme. So much non-Objective information, attacks. Well, you could say that there were filthy candidates who were unrelated to the Law and Justice, and there was fekalia. I will talk about 2019 because this is what the report is about. We talked, discussed it at the Committee on Culture and Media for a very long time, we discussed it very carefully. We also had information from various institutions that monitor TV and radio programs. Of course, when we talk about the report of the National Radio and Television Council, every year, we always focus on public television. And it is not without reason, not without reason, because there, on public television there is a violation of the law on radio and television. We all see it, we observe it, and the National Radio and Television Council believes that nothing is happening and that it is not competent. I will remind you of the powers of the National Council, the tasks of radiophony and television. And the National Council is required to ensure that these tasks are carried out. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 describing the tasks of radio and television the first item is the provision of information, i.e. not providing comments, not chewing this information, but providing information. There's no public information on TV. If they are, then they are marginal, because all the information is linked to a comment or they are all comments. I'm not saying it's... This is a basic journalistic error, but this is the intended error, which is used on public television, in a large part also on public radio. Art. Point 6 (1) of the Act on Radio and Television states that the National Council upholds freedom of expression on radio and television, ensures the open and pluralistic character of radio and television. A further provision, Art. Article 6 (6) (a) Point 5 of the second paragraph states that the National Council organises research into the content and reception of media services. What kind of research did you organize? You didn't do any research. You're saying you don't have the authority to do this. [[Voice in the O.R.: Medical examination.]] Then read into the bill. It is clear, the content of this law is clear. Next rule, lips. 5a, states that it is up to the National Council to monitor the audiovisual market and assess the performance of the obligations arising from the Act by those entities, i.e. to assess the implementation of the Act. And what are the rules here, what are the findings on the basis of this law or what may have been the findings on the basis of this law, is clear to me. And that's why you're not doing any research. Therefore, you answer the question of what is the situation: well, broadcasters have the freedom to shape programs. Yes, they are free, but provided that they apply the law, and the law clearly states: pluralism, impartiality, information. If it is so that on the displayed bar you can read the Senate under dictation abroad The modern market, after which there is a question mark, and below it is said that it is the beginning of a three-day meeting and work on the novelty of such a law, and this is the information? [[Question mark?]] Yeah, there was a question mark at the end. Maybe I can ask, too:.Public television under the dictation of Jack Kurski gives false, lying information and here is the question mark. Well, that's one example of many. It is also an example of how the institutions of the state are treated, i.e. the state itself. Well, they are treated as their own property, in which they can do everything, and they are not responsible at all. Art. 11 The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union regulates the principle of media pluralism and combines it with fundamental rights, talks about obtaining and transmitting information and ideas without interference by public authorities. I understand that you believe at the National Radio and Television Council that of course there is no link between public authorities and public television management, and Jacek Kurski himself invents all this, does not act on behalf of political power and government. If you thought that, you'd be very naive. I'm not that naive. A regulator that does not analyze the content emitted must not have a reliable opinion on what the content is, what content is transmitted on public television. And these are content that poisons society, because these are content that introduces elements of hatred into individual groups. Yeah, not even hate, hate. There was a teacher strike. Of course it was: teachers don't want to teach, they embezzle the basic laws that young people have! Okay, but teachers have the right to fight for their own, too. They have the right to strike. And one at a time, the next groups... I'm not talking about groups of sexual minorities anymore. Once again, the National Radio and Television Council has constitutional obligations and statutory obligations. These obligations are not fulfilled by the National Council, which is why I will vote against the National Council report and I hope that this situation will finally end. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u77	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, please. Out of place, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u78	From the point of view. It is difficult for me to say that I am going to speak in the debate because it is difficult for me to call what we have here today and to present to our viewers if they are watching our debates and debates. On a good point, we have no one to debate with, no one to consult, no one to discuss matters relating to improvement, improvement of public media and various media institutions, because, as has been said many times here, the head of the National Media Council does not appear here at all, completely disregards the Senate. He is not at committee meetings, nor at so-called debates, nor at our meetings, so he simply reports his full désintéressement on what we want to say and what we think, what our feelings are. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, as long as Parliament, both the Sejm and the Senate, agree that the public media will be given huge amounts of money to carry out their activities every once in a while without any control over this operation, this will continue. It is no secret that public media are not serviceable towards the community, it is not radio and social television, for the people of our Poland, these are media that serve the government, simply serve the government, follow orders, various important higher government officials and whether these are elections, whether these are important celebrations, in this regard and in this direction they conduct their activities. I repeat: as long as we finance this terrible state of our public media, which are not public media, this situation will continue. No debate we have, no discussion will have any effect, nothing will help, we will still witness some circus activities, e.g. such as the appeal of the President of Public Television by Mr Czabański formally, officially, before the microphones, and in a moment, after some time, to appoint him back as President, without any justification, quietly, secretly, as a result of some own internal deliberations, etc. This state simply disqualifies the functioning of the media, their role and importance. The second thing, the last thing I want to talk about, and the most important thing. Public media has become the forge of journalistic aprofessionalism, because it is being prepared by people who want to earn money, who serve their decision-makers who give them such or other jobs. These are people who, if they continue this way, probably will never understand what a comment is, what is a statement, what is a statistical data, when we give it, etc. And it's expanding. A bunch of people who come to public media are constantly changing, new people who want to make a journalist's career come and fall into a professional trap, learn no profession, and can't do a journalist's job. Now we can complain, appeal, and the finale is that both the National Radio and Television Council and the National Media Council claim on every occasion of our contact that they are unable to do certain things, they have no competence on certain issues and on certain matters, there is nothing they can do. And here I ask the question: who and why do these two organs serve? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u80	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! First of all, I would like to address the guests: there is no obligation to be here, and if you are here, it may be worth listening to, because even if you do not do it, then maybe something will fall into one ear and you will think that maybe they are a little right about what they say. Because knowledge is always something that makes you think differently. It doesn't mean it's better or worse, but it doesn't. Which is why I encourage you to take a moment... And that also applies to the Minister or to the lady who's having a chat right now. Mrs. Marshal, would you please... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: You are not intruding yet. If they bother you, I'll pay attention.]] Good. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the fifth time I have been speaking to say a few words about the functioning of Polish television, radio and authorities, which uphold these values, which were mentioned here today, not in the debate, but in such statements, because it can be called statements. Because today's power comes to it like this. I'm paraphrasing the title of a movie, what are you gonna do to me, how do we still have the power? So I feel that today, both the National Council and the media board approach things like this: you say to yourselves, and we still have ours... But what I'm trying to say is that we don't stop talking about it, because always, in every action, there's always going to be some sobering, and there's going to be a thought. That's why it's worth talking about. And I absolutely disagree with Senator Boris-Damięcka, a person known from radio, television, a man of culture. That's government media. No, Senator, these aren't national or government media. This is party media. Please note... Although this is 2019, the mechanism in 2020 shows the fantastic politicality of these media. This is even worse, because if they showed the achievements of the government, the functioning of the government, it would also be bad, very bad, but if it is shown only in political and party terms, it is already tragic. If you were encouraged to comment... But the comment is always the same. There's one good one, like the Western one, and the rest of the bad ones. And so this party television shows today's Polish reality. And these recent events... When there was a dispute in the family, different things were shown. And what was just shown? No big success: agreement. So they're strict. political media. And the state guarding the independent media... The elements that Marshal Borusewicz read... He asked the President of the National Council here to read it, take it to heart and do at least part of what the legislator has given you as a task, as a competence to uphold the independence of public media. And yet the public media, ladies and gentlemen, is the fourth power. And one of the most important attributes of every authority is independence, objectivity, honesty, etc., etc. Can any of these attributes be attributed to today's political television? No. There are 2 fantastic TVs in Europe today, Russia Today and TV Poland. These are fantastic examples. Soon students in all journalism departments in civilized countries will learn how not to make television. And what else will be shown? That they were the authorities of a state that was upholding independence. Independence from what? From the opposition Okay, I get it. From the truth, from showing what is fair and true. Comment, comment and show only unfairly functioning political opponents... Ladies and gentlemen, just as it is today, We must repeat this fantastic statement by Senator Zdrojewski. Public media are the Polish state's reason, Mr President. The Polish state's right! Real Polish public media If you want, I'll add the national ones that are on guard of independence, integrity, objectivity, pluralism, etc., etc., what's written... Because power that doesn't obey the law, and the other way around, breaks it, that's dictatorial power, evil power, bad power. And someday there will be a time to remember. As has already been said here today, this is an important part of the Polish state, the fourth power, which has to look at everyone else's hands, help, show, point, seek, but do it in a fair and honest way. All these arguments concerning the functioning of these institutions... National institutions set up by the Polish Parliament and financed largely from the state budget are at the heart of the operation of radio and television. As the Senator rapporteur said, Senator Matecka, 4 billion in 3 years... I understand when we were in a period of enormous prosperity in Europe and the world. But today, with such problems concerning the functioning of the state in the field of finance, economic problems which are in the world, in Europe and also in Poland, putting 2 billion PLN into the operation of television requires that all these parameters, which are recorded in the act, be respected. And now what we always say, what I asked the senator, this example... Because there's a question on the lips, I think Senator Łyczak asked: wasn't there any part of the committee that said there was something positive... There it is, the bear from the window is definitely positive if it's still... ABC my grandkids are watching... Well, that policy hasn't gone in yet, Uszatek Bear hasn't written anything political yet, but all these other things are probably already signed. And finally, I'd like to quote... Oh, let me just say... Yeah, well, it's objective showing... As I read the statement, it was like this: the staff of one party 46 minutes of access to public television during some period, the staff of President Andrzej Duda 41 minutes. What's the matter? You okay? All right! Well, there's only a good comment later on, as it actually looked: during the 46 minutes, there's been a whole show of bad things about this candidate, and within 41 minutes, President Andrzej Duda went out to defend the nation and the world. And that's the objectivity. And as part of the summary, as it is in Polish political life, created by political television... Mr.Kurski recently said this: "Telewizja Polska did not favour any of the candidates in the campaign. And this is the best comment on what we do, what this TV looks like and who it serves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u81	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u82	I must say that today's debate has some interest. After my speech, I received questions about private media with the attention that the institution that we are describing today, the institution that gave the report, is indeed called the National Radio and Television Council, without the adjective of the public. Of course, it is capable of building everything that is primarily related to technology, so it also includes non-public media. On another occasion I was already expressing my opinion about programs, e.g. TVN, praising e.g. A contact glass for culture, for sensitivity, for brilliance, for all kinds of things, but in general, I want to address the question that was being asked in the courtroom, and there is no answer to it. The first thing I want to say is that you have to remember that the so-called. Public television has a gigantic advantage over private media, and many kinds. Of course, it uses advertising, as well as private media, but it also uses a subscription, and private media do not have the possibility to do so, it benefits from public, government grants, even the last 2 billion PLN, which also cannot be counted on by private media. However, there is another element of a serious advantage: this is content, this is a rich, extraordinary archive that was created after 1945, as well as earlier, on public television, when it was a monopolistic entity. This content, extraordinary value, in terms of image, culture, movies, productions, is important for the position of public media. And I would like to stress that, of course, private media are in a much more difficult situation, but they are doing well. Watching some programs, I know whether they are addressed to a wide audience and whether they are missionary or not. If it appears e.g. The program is called "Warning! Coronavirus on TVN, I know this message is missionary. There's no such thing on public television. This does not mean that public media do not inform about the coronavirus, about the dangers. But as I observe the statements made by the President or by the Prime Minister referring to Coronavirus, I must say that they differ from the truth, from the integrity, but public television does not correct them, does not benefit from the verification given by medical authorities. And it's painful for me. If I'm watching the black on white, then I know that there are absolutely shocking issues that should also be answered on public television. What's going on with the famous ferry? Well, the rusty part that's an illustration... What happens to investments that last 3, 4 years, 5 years too long and are twice as expensive as they should be? I believe that public television, once again, should not be anti-state, but in pro-stateism it should be extremely reliable when it comes to the information page, and unfortunately it is not. And one last thing. Of course, there are over 200 channels that are included in almost every package. It is very difficult to judge all channels or all broadcasters. They are different, often purely commercial. But I would like to say and stress that very many missionary programmes, instead of being in public circulation, are on these platforms, in these purely commercial channels. And last but not least, I'm going back to Radio Three. I almost all those journalists who either got kicked out or left, I knew either from the air or from being in the editorial offices. I remember many of them running away from politics, every policy, every sympathy, every government. They really had such a sense of necessity for the mission. And I watched them at the meeting of our senate culture committee, how much pain they were talking about what was going on with this radio trio. I also watched the faces of those who were responsible, and I saw no concern at them, no embarrassment, no pain due to the fact that a fragment of Polish culture was so devastated. And that's painful, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u83	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Michael Sewerinski. [[Out of place, if you don't mind.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u84	This speech of mine will be very brief. I listen very carefully, not for the first time, to reports on the activities of the National Radio and Television Council and to discussions about media in general. Most often, critical tone prevails. That's right. Because we have the right to demand that these media get better and closer to their mission. I'll tell you why I'm not so worried about all the critics that have died here. First of all, because I know a little bit of the world. A lot of us know the world a little bit. And I know that almost everywhere there is such tension between public and private media as there is with us. And I know that it's almost everywhere that the public media, with some extra money, more often represent the government's opinion, the government's opinion than the political opposition. This happens in all democratic countries, and I will not exchange them. What makes me want to keep some peace in everything that's been said here very critically? Such a belief that these public media, because they were generally spoken of, are not as good as they claim, nor are they as bad as... Especially the political opposition, the opposition towards the government assigns them these different negative qualities It's somewhere in between. We'd like these media to be better, we'd like them to be less critical. Nevertheless, for me, the anchor of the fact that media order is what a democratic state should be, is that not only public media in our country are present and active. And it is good that Senator Zdrojewski, whom I always respect for the integrity and elegance of the speech, said something about private media. After all, they are the complement. Even if the public media were the most critical, these private media are a democratically required complement. Isn't it that they actually have more opportunities? Let's figure out exactly how many public and private channels there are. And don't private media have full freedom of expression, full freedom to preach what they think is right? They do. And is the audience strongly attached to public media and cannot go to this oasis of freedom and truth, which is supposedly private media? He can choose. These ratings show that it is not just some political background of the ruling party watching public television and for him it is created. Listeners, viewers have a choice. And they enjoy this freedom of choice. And in public space it is the opinion of public media, sometimes referred to as party media, and private media, which other listeners might consider to be anti-party, anti-government. And I think we're gonna find out that that's what happens a lot. So for me, the anchor of media order is that they are pro-government, public, as you say, media workers, and that there are media that are neither pro-government nor public, but are very often anti-government, and which are also made not for public money, but for private money, and do not need any subsidies from the state because there are the money they use, they have plenty to preach the truths they consider appropriate. I am not concerned about the state of public media, the state of private media in Poland, freedom of media, which in Poland is. Although, as I said, neither this order is the best, nor is it the worst. We should do everything, also through critical statements here in this House, so that this state of affairs can be better and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u85	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u86	Mrs. Marshal, right away. Mr. Senator! Professor! I am very pleased to hear from the Professor as a representative of Law and Justice. Please note, Professor, that most of our statements do not concern the fact that there is no public or private media in the media market. Here you are right, Professor, that the competition between one group in Poland and the other group in the world was, is and will be. And I am also inclined to believe that, as a rule, public media in a country should defend public authority more than private media. But, Professor, that's not what we're paying attention to. I'm a little less calm than the professor, because... we say not only that it's okay, but even that it should be... that the public media should also be objective, show the truth, not manipulate, use different tricks, etc. If we look at the time... Let me remind you again, Professor: you can show someone for half an hour in an objective way, and you can show someone else for half an hour in a completely negative way and say: they both had half an hour of access. And the point is that public media should be on the side of knowledge transfer, also on the side of Polish interest, of course, I am also in favour of this, and that is definitely Not on the watch of political dogmas. Well, if you're attacking the social groups that were mentioned here today... It's what the public media do, and I don't think that's what the media should be doing. And that is why we are discussing whether, as part of this calm approach that the Professor was talking about, we should not seek to make Polish public media the kind of public media that you know from other democratic countries. I don't know them that well, but I'm reading about them, and I'd like to see our public media. They were more like the media from the democratic countries of the West than those from the non-democratic countries of the East. And that's the argument. Well, I don't see a dispute between private and public media, although I agree with the professor that the competition between them will continue. This competition is and hopefully will remain so, because the public media sphere should be an open sphere. And the last sentence, Mrs. Marshal, concerning the use of... Professor, if it were so that every citizen of the Republic of Poland could turn one, the other, the third, the fourth station without additional charges, then I would agree. Let's assume, however, that I am going to a hotel in X voivodeship, which is very conducive to the current power. Do you think there's access to TVN24 in the hotels there? Mostly not. I was in one of these hotels, and for four days I watched public television all the way up here. By the way, there's one thing I've noticed. Professor, there were strikes of yellow vests in Paris. Okay, but what exactly was shown? It's not a problem. It's police brutality. All right, maybe we need that kind of brutality to get ratings. In the end, however, there was a comment: please, and in Poland it is okay, people protest, walk, walk, the police accompany them... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Professor, I'm done here. If the professor says it is, we see things differently. I hope we both get our eyes sharper and we'll see the same thing someday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u87	Thank you very much, Senator. I'll only add one sentence. It is not all over Poland that private media can be viewed. I know places where there's no possibility. You're welcome to take... [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal...]] Yes? [[Let me introduce a little lightness to this discussion, and on the same principle I will add: but then public media can be turned off.]] Only then there would be no access to the news at all. Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u88	...he provoked me to speak. Well, I've heard so many good things about your professor, people respect you, but I can't accept the words you said here. It can be said that you would like to explain the lies of the public media with private media lies. Well, let's assume that's the lie. This is beyond my comprehension. Like a man like you, with a piece of work like that, a professor I bow low to. I've heard a lot of good things about you. Can he talk about how there's a balance here? Today we are debating public media, paid out of public money, representing all Poles. What do I care about private media? They don't interest me. Today's debate is not about private media, it is about public media. We are asking questions about why public media is lying, and we are not interested in private media. Public media is the media of all of us, media that should represent all Poles and not represent them. If you don't mind, I'll give you an example from my own experience. For 17 years I was the president of the city, head of the community association, member of the Board of the Polish Cities Association, etc., and for 5 years I have so-called. Wolf ticket in national media. Well, I'm not allowed on public television. Professor, what do you say? As a senator of the Republic of Poland, I have never once received the honor of... I am talking about regional television. I am not talking about national television programs to which various politicians are invited, but about regional television. What do you say I've been banned from public television for five years, public radio, West Radio in Jelenia Góra? What will you answer me? We're talking about public media to represent us. They don't represent. Today we have no right, we have no opportunity to ask questions to the people who represent these media. And I'd like to ask questions like that. Why are there entries for people who are uncomfortable with this party? Why does this television, the national media, represent only one side of the political dispute? After all, they should represent all Poles. Therefore, to conclude, I am very, very sorry that today we cannot hold a fair debate, ask questions to which we could get answers so that the Poles hear the answer to the question about why someone who is to serve the whole nation, an institution that is paid out of our common taxes, represents only one political option. Let me repeat: I am not interested in private media, we are talking about public media, i.e. our media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u89	Thank you very much. I understand that the senator wants to refer to ad vocem.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u90	I have one sentence to say, especially since I have the right, because I've been mentioned here, disciplined, violated. I would like to say, Mr. Senator, that I regret that I have failed your expectations for me so much, but I also promise I will not change my views.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u91	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does the chairman of the National Radio and Television Council, Mr Witold Kołodziejski, still want to speak? [[Chairman of the National Radio and Television Council Witold Kołodziejski: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, after hearing the discussion... The mic didn't go off. I hope you can hear me. Yes? May I speak? [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: You can't hear me.]] And now? I can hear you now. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Now yes.]] However, ladies and gentlemen, after listening to the discussion, I would like to address it in a few words and correct a few statements correctly. Senator Tyszkiewicz said that today's debate concerns public media, that public media lie, not that commercial media lie. No media, Mr. Senator, can lie, and the National Council deals with all media. But I have actually referred to your statement in order to stress once again that today's debate concerns the report of the National Radio and Television Council, and this is not a discussion with the public television board. Meanwhile, the state, even speaking of public media, spoke only about public television, i.e. the president of 1 company from 17 companies, and in fact 19 companies. The task of the National Council... Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz quoted only part of the task, part of the general regulations that say that the task of radio and television is to provide information. And it is indeed one of the points, but others are the sharing of cultural and art goods, facilitating the use of education, sport, scientific achievements, the dissemination of civic education, the provision of entertainment, the promotion of national audiovisual works, etc., etc. These are the tasks that public media and commercial media are to carry out. We're talking about radio and television. For all these records concerning radio and television, you ignore one fact, that the National Council deals with radio and television, not public television. And that's the first thing. When it comes to issues relating to whom the public media invites and whom they do not invite, it is all the more a question to the public media authorities. But you can't have a senator's grudge, and you can't expect the editors to invite you, because it's their free choice, and it's also their free choice to assess the actions of the authorities, both the executive authority and the legislative authority, and you're part of the legislative authority. There can be no television, no editorial, no medium to deny the right to criticism also of the highest, respectable Chamber of Reflection. So don't be surprised that there are critical themes on public television to the Senate, because this is the sacred law of every journalist and editor. And I have the feeling that the biggest grudge is a grudge. it is about criticism and because public television dares to criticize the upper chamber, the Senate, it is necessary to change the authorities, to reform public television or to eliminate it. So by referring to the basic task, which is to care for freedom of speech, because this is the constitutional task and challenge of the National Radio and Television Council, to care for freedom of speech, I would like to say that we cannot... We're here to make sure no one bans the media. Neither the public nor the commercial performance of their statutory constitutional duties and duties, i.e. those I mentioned at the beginning. There are limits, of course, no one is allowed to lie, no one is allowed to do certain things, and we are keeping an eye on it. In the same way as in the case of public media and commercial media. Senator Zdrojewski likes the offer of commercial television and one sender, i.e. TVN, it respects programs for culture and sensitivity, for reliability. Well, it's an evaluation, Mr. Senator, your evaluation of these programs. If we asked for the voice of someone else, he would probably have a completely different impression, because these are subjective impressions. Indeed, there is some polarisation on the media market and this polarisation is also confirmed in figures. Despite the fact that the report concerns 2019, although it concerns the performance of the duties of the National Radio and Television Council, I have with me a list that you are always asking about, i.e. a summary of recent electoral campaigns, among others. Presidential campaign. What does it look like, ladies and gentlemen, these proportions? In terms of the percentage presence in the programmes, the presence of both candidates, presidential candidate Andrzej Duda and candidate Rafał Trzaskowski, was the biggest in the information program Polsat News: 36% for both candidates, i.e. on a similar level. Well, there is, you can say, an information program of not the largest range, but it's definitely characteristic that the presence there was the most balanced. As far as Andrzej Duda is concerned, it was later shown most often on TVP Info, Program 1 of Polish Radio, Program 3 of Polish Radio and TVN24. Regarding the presidential candidate Rafał Trzaskowski, he was most often presented in TVN24, Radio Zet, Onet, Virtual Poland and Tok FM. So here we also have some information, an indication of a certain trend that the media that the candidate is more supportive of. Exposing the presence of a candidate, as you might presume, is more of a support for him than it is for the other candidate. That is TVP Info, One, Three, and in the case of Trzaskowskie TVN24, Radio Zet, Onet, Virtual Poland and Tok FM. That's pretty much how it's shaped. As for which programs where they are, as this information obligation is preserved in the care of pluralism, I would like to say that both TVP 1 and TVN are available in exactly the same places and exactly throughout Poland on digital terrestrial television. So it's not that this access is limited. Information programme or TVN24 information program is not available on terrestrial television, but this is due only to the fact that the editorial model, the business model of the owner is such that it is a pay channel, it is not offered free of charge. If we look at the results of the ratings in the same presidential campaign, we will see that the viewers were more likely to choose TVP's offer and the news programme, which had more than 2.5 million average ratings, and then TVN's Facts with a slightly smaller audience, because 2 million 400 thousand. So this pluralism is shaped in this way: my power is the pilot in my hand and there is no obstacle to reaching into this pilot. When it comes to spending money... It was said that 2 billion PLN this year on public television was granted. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, even with some laughter: it's not 2 billion on public television, it's 2 billion on public media. TV got 1.5 billion, and it's not for information, it's for all business. All sports broadcasts, rights to them cost half a billion. This is the most expensive element of any program. The entire budget of the TV news agency, the entire information activity on all channels is PLN 150 million. So let us not talk about such amounts in the context of information. When it comes to whether this money is spent against Poles or Poles, I will say that public television is the biggest television group, with the largest audience, more than 30%. As you can see, there is an argument for all those who choose public television channels, and this offer is received. As I say, it's not just information. Most of them are films, theatre, sports, spectacles, entertainment, etc. It's people picking up. Also in covid times was very rich and there is a public service offering. I would remind you that he was the first to launch a remote teaching offer. Accidents in the first shows were related to the implementation time, only a few weeks after the introduction of remote teaching in schools. Today these lessons are constantly being controlled and are at a very good level at the moment. Also tutorial programs about the coronavirus, probably 0.04 release at the moment... A public broadcaster has done this task very well. As far as comments to the National Council are concerned, there were indeed several. First of all, I'd like to correct something. The Senator rapporteur said that we at the committee meeting expressed the opinion that the power to elect public media authorities should be withdrawn to the National Council. That's not exactly a term. I said that the Constitutional Court's judgment should be implemented. He was on another bill, but the subject is the same. It must be implemented, which does not mean that we believe that the best solution would be to restore the obligation for the National Council to choose public media authorities. It would be better to ensure its strong position in the selection chain, because direct choice would make it difficult, I think, as in the past, to separate the control function, the regulatory function of the National Council from the supervisory function, which should be performed by the issuing authority. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as research is concerned, there have been a number of misunderstandings here all the time. These studies are not specified in the Radio and Television Act. It's not, ladies and gentlemen, nor is it a medical examination, because I've heard such comments here, nor research and programme monitoring. This is a study of reception of radio and television content, it's telemetry, it's audiometry, it's a whole series of research that we're doing, of course. This year we will implement this within a budget of PLN 20 million plus an additional PLN 15 million. There are really big changes in the research market. The National Council is absolutely the leader of this process. Of course, we also conduct normal, classic monitoring. We run them ourselves in cooperation with scientific centres. We provide you with full analysis of the presence in the media of the parties and politicians during the elections and between the elections. We have these researches very well organized and implement them in a continuous manner. Of course, information that flows not only from this room, but also from different backgrounds, often creates a reality that could be boldly called a false reality. We could refer to the next duty of the National Council, the fight against fake news. These are typical fake news as well as information from the publication of the Journalist Society, discussed at the committee meeting on the occasion of the report, about anti-Semitism in the information programs of the Polish Television, which has not been confirmed. We have looked into this issue, and the Marshal Borusewicz even complained about it, and there were no such materials, and yet you have operated with such allegations. The OSCE report also found this allegation, although the OSCE representatives were unable to identify a specific programme and concrete examples on the basis of which such an accusation was based. Therefore, this illustrates the situation in which we create, create a certain reality, and then rotate within this created reality. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the task of the National Council is to ensure freedom of expression in the media. Therefore, any intervention, as far as broadcasters are concerned, must be very deeply and thoroughly documented and undertaken as a last resort. The National Council, of course, takes such steps, but we pay great attention to applying an equal measure to all broadcasters, commercial and public, because from our point of view, there is no pluralism and freedom of speech here and there can be no difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u93	Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that during the discussion there was no request against the proposals put forward by the committee, so now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolutions. This third reading would only cover the vote. I would like to inform you that the vote on these matters will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Media Council. The text of the Act is contained in print No 211 and the committee's report in print No 211 A. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u94	I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u95	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Dear Izbo! The Senate Committee on Culture and Media considered the law on amending the Act on the National Media Council in print No 211, at its meeting of 28 September in 2020. It concerns the Law of 22 June 2016. The draft amendment of the Act pursuant to Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Senator. I would very much ask you not to disturb the senator at the time of her speech. Thank you very much. You're welcome.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But it didn't reach Mr Tyszkiewicz... [[Obviously.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'm so sorry, Senator. And I ask you to continue.]] Amendment of the Act on the basis of Article. Article 32 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm are intended to regulate matters relating to the expiry of membership of the National Media Council before the end of the term of office. Consequently, the Act introduces a provision which provides that, in the event of the expiry of membership of the Council, the President of the Republic shall set a time limit for the submission of candidates not later than 14 days from the date of the decision on the expiry of membership of the Council. The Sejm considered that, in justified cases, normative acts could enter into force within less than 14 days if the important interest of the State so requires, the justification should nevertheless show a detailed explanation of the need for the proposed law to enter into force within that shorter period. But, as noted at our culture committee's meeting, The Sejm's Senate Legislative Office noted that this detailed explanation was lacking in this report. Thus, there is no detailed explanation, and there are such requirements for establishing the entry into force of a time limit shorter than 14 days from the date of notification. During the discussion in the Senate committee, it was stated that the act was unconstitutional. None of the representatives of the Sejm applicants were present at the committee meeting, there was also no representative of the President of the Republic, nor was there any member of the National Media Council, which is, according to the committee, a clear proof of disregard for the Senate and its deliberations. It has also been noted that the act is incidental, purely technical and it would be easier to leave this legal wick As stated at the committee meeting To improve what they've spoiled. It was also stressed that the Constitutional Court stated that the amendment was non-constitutional. After further discussion, the vote was put on the table. Three senators voted in favour, two senators voted against, three senators abstained. To sum up, the committee adopts the law without amendment. This meeting is adjourned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u96	Thank you very much, Senator, Marshal Senior. The bill was introduced by Members and Mr Piotr Babinetz was authorised to present the position of the Members of the project's applicants. But, just as she was gracious to note your Marshal Boris-Damięcka, saying that the representative of the Members was not at the committee meeting, I also regret to say that there is no representative of the applicants also in the plenary sitting of the Senate, which must lead me to the conclusion that we are dealing with a breach of the seriousness of our House, and also in violation of parliamentary custom. This is an act of disregard by the parliamentary majority. Which, as I understand it, is behind this bill by the majority of Poles who chose one rather than another majority in the Senate. I ask you very much to ask the senator the rapporteur if the senators feel that way. You're welcome, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u97	First question. There'll be a few, but I don't want to exceed the time limit. Are the reasons given at the committee meeting for Mr Grzegorz Podżorny's resignation from membership of the mentioned institution? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Again: what is left...?]] Are there any reasons why he resigned from the media council?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u98	No. There was even such a question as why there are no reasons. 'Cause they should be. These reasons were not and no one answered in this case, i.e. what are the reasons for the resignation of one of the members of the National Media Council, which was nominated by the President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u99	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Zdrojewski and another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u100	In addition... I think we have three serious problems. Firstly, as mentioned by the marshal, the unconstitutionality of this institution; secondly, resignation; thirdly, there is an additional problem, i.e. the lack of interest in this state of affairs of those who should be interested in the condition of their own institution. I'll just briefly add that Mr. Grzegorz Podżorny, who resigned from his duties, accused And that's the charge. not only public, but also in a letter to President Andrzej Duda, first, chaos, second, lack of competition, thirdly, failure to comply with the rules of the National Media Council. So there were very specific charges against... [[Mr. Senator, I wonder where the question is.]] He'll be at the end, Mr. Marshal. [[And that is the question, let me remind you, to Senator Boris-Damięcka...]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: If I can only answer...]] [[Of course, if the senator feels competent about the answer to Mr. Defendant's letter, please...]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damian: No, no, no. I want to...]] [[A voice from the hall: But perhaps the senator would like to finish...]] [[Yeah, why don't you finish the question...]] [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: There you go.]] [[...then it'll be a lot easier to answer them. You're welcome.]] On the one hand, I wanted to comment on this situation. And here's the question. But the most important question is this: we are today, dealing with this report or this resolution, trying to fix a certain delict that is. Is it worth doing so with regard to an institution in which there is a lack of interest in de facto the heads of the institution themselves in its condition and in its delicacy, and on the eve In a way, I'm symbolically saying it. The liquidation of this institution, what should happen soon?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u102	Thank you. As my report said at the outset, none of the people who should have taken part in the committee were present, so there was no representative of the Sejm, there was no representative of the President and there was no representative of the National Media Council. Therefore, the questions were asked, but these were questions that no one was able to answer because there were no competent persons. First of all, the name of the member of the board who resigned and there was neither any justification nor reason given in any of the documents that we had at our committee meeting. So it was like, "What's the reason?" and "What's the reason?" As a result of this reflection, everyone came to the conclusion that probably because the National Media Council is established on the basis of Well, I'm sorry to use that word, but that's my definition of a pointless piece of legislation that didn't work out at all and that it was found to be unconstitutional... Everyone said it was high time to simply consider the cancellation, suspension or liquidation of the National Media Council, and that there was no point in continuing to lean on this problem, that this report which the Sejm had submitted should simply be adopted and sent back. And that's all that's said about it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u104	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, at the moment, you have partly explained a contradiction in what I have heard here: on the one hand, total criticism I now understand that not even this amendment, but the mother's bill, I don't know how to amend it, whether it's unconstitutional or not. On the other hand, the committee accepts this law in total and approves its introduction into legal order. So I'm not okay. Well, could you explain that in more detail? [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Yes, I will try.]] How is it that there's something else in the verbal layer, and then there's something else when you raise your hand in the vote?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u105	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome, Senator. Because I'm not hiding that I've been paying attention to that fact. But I do not hide the fact that the whole matter is accompanied by quite a number of unexpected events for the parliamentary life... Yes, sir. Well, even questions addressed to people who aren't, so we don't get answers to these questions. The body that we want to fix, and which is unconstitutional, is not interested in the fact that it is to be fixed. All of this actually makes the situation at least weird. Nevertheless, the senator pointed out an interesting aspect and we would be happy to hear your answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u106	Yes, Mr. Marshal as if he'd already given the senator the answer to that strange question. Around the National Media Council and the bill on the basis of which this council was established, pushing it through at one time, etc... The only thing I can say is that as many times as a report is submitted by the National Media Council, at a committee meeting in the first place, so many times... only once did the chairman of the Council, Mr Czabanski, appear, who in principle did not answer any question. And there were questions about why there was an unconstitutional law and on what basis She's working. And it's really one of the miracles that exist in Polish parliamentarianism, that something is working, even though all important bodies state that it is unconstitutional. And every time it gets emphasized. But there is no contradiction in what I said, because this is an amendment of the law concerning only a small section of this law, namely the appointment of a member of the National Media Council in case, before the end of his term of office, The Council's term of office is 6 years and a member's resignation or dismissal has taken place. And that's all the committee did. Therefore, the demands that there cannot be an empty rule that if someone resigns during their term of office, what we have to do about it... The committee therefore considered that it was simply necessary to accept this proposal that, within 7 days, in the case of very important state matters, if such an appeal or resignation occurs, the President must appoint a replacement as long as the term of office is in place, the next person. And there are many such issues that are not included in your question, namely how the President does it, to whom he addresses etc. Because, I draw attention to five members of the media council, all members are appointed by the president, even though three members are nominated by parliament, and two members are nominated by the president. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Czerwinski, I understand, with an additional question. Does the senator feel satisfied?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u108	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, it's the opposite. Doubts are beginning to multiply. Because the senator said that all the important institutions or most of the important institutions say that this law is unconstitutional. But in the Polish legal order, unconstitutionality does not state important institutions, only the Constitutional Tribunal. The mother law has been in the legal system for four or less years, and it could be sued a long time ago. You have the right number of Members, the right number of senators. I am now talking about you as a opposition club against the government. You could have sued that. Why didn't you? And now back to the revision. As I understand it, the amendment is not incompatible with the constitution. You didn't say that. It's provocative, there's no conflict with the constitution. Because that's what this contradiction is about. Well, then it's like this, not another vote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u109	There is nothing more I can tell you about this because the discussion concerned only this amendment and the proposal for a deadline. That's all.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u110	As I understand it, there are no more questions in this exciting discussion. I... Oh, excuse me. Because a government representative is listening to our deliberations... [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: I am free, excuse me?]] Yes, you're welcome. [[Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka: Thank you.]] The senator will be gracious to rest. Thank you kindly. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Minister. [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Lewandowski, right?]] Yes, Minister Paweł Lewandowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to point out a few aspects of the bill under review. Of course, I would like to stress that this is a law that is a parliamentary project. There was no government position for this bill. Nevertheless, it is a law that really gives the opposition the opportunity to appoint its representative on the National Media Council, which is not an unconstitutional body. Nowhere has the unconstitutional existence of this entity been established. And, as the senator rightly pointed out here, if you believe that this entity does not act constitutionally, does not act on the basis of constitutional provisions, then, of course, it is possible to appeal these provisions to the Constitutional Court. So, if there's anything I can do to advise on this, then... If that's what you think, I encourage it. And I would like to say very strongly from this point of view that there is no judgment that would in any way state that an organ called the National Media Council is unconstitutional and that it is doing its work in a way that is not in accordance with the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u112	Minister, excuse me, I'll let you ask me a question. If the Minister would be so kind as to specify... Because, as far as I understand, you've been kind enough to say that the government has no position on this matter... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: There is no...]] ...and then you took the position. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: Yes.]] On your behalf or on behalf of the government? Well, I'd like it to be clear if the government has a position on this particular case because you were kind enough to say that it doesn't. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Paweł Lewandowski: I already translate. May I?]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u113	The government's position on this case is not formal. However, every time I hear an untruth that appears in public space, as a civil servant, I have a duty not to correct it. And in this respect, I've decided to help you, so to speak, in substance.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u114	I'm glad the Senate could have witnessed your fulfillment of a noble mission to tell the truth. Thank you very much, Minister. Senators can now ask the Minister a question that lasts no longer than a minute. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Because there are no questions, we are going to discuss it. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u115	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Well, today's situation in the National Media Council exposes the sloppyness of the government's preparation of laws and the appointment of non-constitutional creations, in this case the National Media Council. After the resignation of one of the members of the National Media Council, we should correct the shortcomings in the solutions of the illegally applicable National Media Council Act of June 2016. This document did not provide for procedures for the appointment of a new member by the President in the event that his nominat resigned before the end of his term of office. The amendment, in addition to regulating matters relating to the expiry of membership of the National Media Council before the end of the term of office, including the determination of the President's procedure for the appointment of candidates as members of the Board, also concerns the powers of parliamentary and parliamentary clubs in this respect. A technical amendment was recently adopted by the Sejm, which assumes that if a single seat was created in the Council for persons appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland, the right to submit one candidate for this place is granted to the 2 most numerous opposition clubs. If the opposition club entitled to apply for a candidate does not exercise that right within the prescribed time limit, it will pass on to the largest of the opposition clubs omitted by application of this provision. It's another unthinkable solution. The question is, what happens if there are 3, 4 clubs that have a similar or equal number of members? You can multiply tens of questions like this just a little while ago. They show the sloppyness of the law prepared by the Law and Justice. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, the amendments made on the formal side are still controversial. But I think it should be recalled at every opportunity that the National Media Council is an unconstitutional body. According to the Constitutional Tribunal, only the National Radio and Television Council, whose members cannot be members of political parties, has the right to control and decide to fill management positions in public media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will start with this last part of the statement by Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, because I would like to make it clear that there is a ruling which questions without any doubt the compatibility, i.e. in this case it indicates that this institution is incompatible with the existing constitution, but also reminds us of the activity in this matter of the Ombudsman, who pointed out the raised issues in a clear, clear way, in such a way that there is a commitment, our commitment as legislators to liquidate this institution. That's one thing. Second... Minister Lewandowski is about to leave, and I just want to say that in the absence of interest in this point from the National Council of Radio and Television and political media, I welcome the interest of the Ministry of Culture, to which I feel a clear sentiment. So thank you very much that the Ministry of Culture has taken an interest in this point. So much for the Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The third element... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, I would very much ask you to remain silent in the courtroom.]] [[The voice from the hall: That's where you... in the corner they're talking...]] Photoporter. I respect the work of photographers, but when I hear a snapshot, not a phone call.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would very much ask you to stop talking loudly in the courtroom. [[Voice from the room: But he...]] You just finished. Thank you. And I'd ask you for the future. Excuse me, sir. I'm addressing you. If you'd be so kind as to keep your voice down on the phone, not disturb the Senate. Thank you kindly. [[Sorry, I didn't realize...]] I ask the senator to continue his speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u119	I'll just say to your photojournalist right away that I value the work of photographers, but when I hear the shutter release, not the phone call. I'll get back to the basics. Well, Mrs Barbara Boris-Damięcka clearly said that the reasons for this resignation were not known, were not addressed. I'm going to quote them a little, because they're relevant from the point of view of this dispute that we're dealing with. Well, Mr Grzegorz Podżorny clearly stated in a letter addressed to the President, justifying his resignation that he expected a partnership discussion and, above all, respect for fundamental principles of good education and mutual respect. He didn't see it coming. Moreover, he lost faith that he would ever see it. It's about the functioning of this institution. I would add that the direct cause of this resignation was the unsuccessful demand of Agnieszka Kamińska, President of Polish Radio. It is worth recalling that the debate on the situation in the Polish Radio with the participation of the President was the subject of a very interesting meeting of the cultural committee in our Senate. I would also like to add that Mr Grzegorz Podżorny demanded a competition, as well as the cancellation of Jack Kurski, who was set up in accordance with rules and regulations. It's so important that, as we know... And he didn't want to be a fig leaf, and he also wrote it in his explanatory statement, in his letter to the president. And now I'm going to want to focus on two statements from a colleague of Senator Czerwinski. Because he's right, paying attention to some inconsistencies. On the one hand, we question the existence of this institution, we realise that it is illegal I will no longer go into detail and these judgments or justifications. On the other hand, we try this illegal institution, which takes some competence away from the constitutional body, to give a chance to last, short indeed, but to last, by supplementing the composition. And I'll tell you right away, there's no doubt. ♪ 'Cause I know it ♪ The point is not to take advantage of this opportunity to complement one of us, representatives of the opposition, although this is the way it is defined. It is also a matter of the fact that this institution currently has a de facto second, yet another, insignificant delicacy in the form of an unconstitutional composition. Indeed, there is an inconsistency in this, and I admit it. The senator was right to point that out. However, today we remain in a situation of only minor damage and greater responsibility. This is the case, and I would like to stress that there are people among the opposition, whole committees who are trying to be responsible for the challenges, so to speak, in the irresponsible situation of the institutions themselves, which function. We have a problem with that. That's some discomfort. We're trying to figure this out. Doubts do not cease, but in my opinion it is better to make corrections in this matter as to the institution which was founded on the basis of some bill, faulty, as it turns out, than to face this state of affairs idly. But let me stress one thing: we have a big problem with this and a lot of discomfort, which, by the way, the senator rightly pointed out. And the last question about the National Media Council Act. We are announcing, as an opposition to the government, and as a Senate government, a project to liquidate this institution. The justifications for the liquidation of this institution are simple. First of all, this unconstitutionality. Secondly, misplaced competences. Thirdly, the poor performance of this institution, as we note with regard to the 2019 report. But our most important concern is for public media to exist, so that there is no media, as they have been mistakenly said, pro-government media. I believe that pro-government is not a disadvantage of public media, so that there is no doubt. But I treat public media, those that function today, not as pro-government, but rather as pro-partisan, and not in front of the whole party, but in relation to selected parts of this party. I know perfectly well, and you also know that there are guests who are wanted and unwanted on public television, admitted and not allowed, and this concerns not only the opposition formation, but also some representatives of the ruling formation. From where I'm standing, it's unacceptable. I never use stronger words, but I want to say that I look at the media with great expectations and great care. If I'm making a critical opinion, it's because I'm concerned about this state of affairs, and I'm not happy that I want it to look different, and unfortunately it doesn't. And if Mr President said that I chose a few programs from one of the private stations that I respected, then I will say that there are more of these programs, and not only in this station, including in Polsat, also in other stations. That's not the point. That's not what I'm concerned about. My concern today is the condition of the media, which should be public, pro-state, pro-government, with all attributes of exemplary journalism, and unfortunately it is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm informing you... [[Senator Czerwinski.]] Yet... Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u121	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this is rather a little expanded ad vocem, because I was called to perform rather than to appear in itself. Well, Mr. Senator, you said you were having trouble with this bill. I am abstracting from this, it was seen here in the gap between the report from the committee meeting, the discussion in committee and how it was then voted. But I think on this one point that we should not be different about in a moment, namely the precision of the speech. Well, the Minister was just speaking here. And I agree with him. That there is no judgment which states that this law is unconstitutional. Regardless of what exceptions with the justifications, which pieces of these justifications you will quote, the operative part of the judgment enters into legal circulation and only it is published in the Official Journal of the Laws. It is she who decides, the operative part of the judgment published in the Official Journal of the Law to the general public of all citizens decides whether a given law or provision of the Act is in scope or interpretation, because there are also such judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal, i.e. the scope, interpretation of the Law or its provision, whether the law is constitutional or compatible with the Constitution, let us speak precisely or not in conformity with the Constitution. The judgments also sometimes state that the provision is not inconsistent, i.e. as if the constitutional model was poorly chosen to examine that provision. That's it. That's it. Can you state the operative part of the judgment and possibly the number, designation, signature of the judgment in which the unconstitutionality of the National Media Act was established? Because if you don't, this bill is constitutional. This is simply the case in Poland, this is the legal system, regardless of what you think and what you often just repeat, according to the old rule: 100 times repeat, it will become true.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u122	Thank you very much. [[Can I answer that?]] Please, if ad vocem. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u123	I ad vocem, and in response, of course. I always try to be honest and quite precise in my speech. If there is a shortcut, it is only out of respect for your patience. But let me remind you that the Ombudsman asked about the participation of the National Council of Radiophony and Television in the appointment of public media authorities, in accordance with the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal. It stated that the management of TVP's posts was still decided by the National Media Council, excluding the constitutional body of the National Radio and Television Council. I would like to remind you that this is happening despite the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal, which in 2016 was declared non-constitutional, and here the expected concrete, deprive the National Radio and Television Council of participation in the appointment and dismissal of the authorities of TVP and Polish Radio for this new institution. The Ombudsman also drew attention to this and these comments were addressed to specific institutions, persons I can list. Those persons and institutions that have been mentioned, together with Deputy Prime Minister Piotr Gliński, should be ready to respond and have announced that by 2018 they will be ready to respond to the allegations and wording set out in the judgment, which they have not done. In short, there really isn't... The senator is right to say precisely that the constitutionality of the whole council has not been challenged, but that it has been stated as unconstitutional that certain powers of the institutions entered into the Constitution have been withdrawn for the purposes of the institutions appointed only by law. It's a serious delicacy, I mean. In general, it can be said that, going in this direction, we senators or Members together today could define the powers of the President of the Republic, in this case Mr Andrzej Duda, by denying him constitutional powers by law. This is unacceptable. I also draw attention to another flaw which is extremely important and visible in this Chamber because of the lack of interest of the relevant people in our debate. Well, the result of this delicacy is a certain activity that, from the point of view of the interests of the public media, is, in short, harmful. But this is already a substantive assessment or, as someone prefers, even political, but expressed in the care of what these media should look like. I would like to stress one more thing which, from my point of view, is also important. We are looking at the current work of the Constitutional Tribunal, to put it mildly, with great concern and with many doubts. Some issues which can be interpreted differently are not raised because of the poor credibility of the institution. But we do not question the constitutionality or unconstitutionality of the Constitutional Tribunal, only from time to time what is part of the implementation of one or another law. I will also remind you that, in connection with these speeches and with the judgment of the Constitutional Court, this date was unfortunate and therefore easily remembered, it was 1 December 2016 that other elements were also identified, and I will no longer recall them, which without any doubt indicate that the functioning of this institution was defective and with certain consequences. I did not accidentally recall the justification of a member of the council who resigned, because some of these elements were used in the justification for the resignation addressed to the President. So much for explaining.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome. I understand that it is still in ad vocem mode. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u125	It will be short, really, in ad vocem mode, very short. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! It is a good thing that we already agree that there is no such judgment, such a sentence, i.e. no one has effectively challenged the constitutionality of the Act of 22 June 2016 on the National Media Council. I am not interested in descriptions, voices, literature, justifications.I am interested in sentiments, that is, what is in the Journal of Laws. Then you could argue. The most important thing in all this is that the ombudsman you are referring to, who can apply to the Constitutional Court to examine any legal act in terms of compliance with the Constitution, did not do so. And here's the cloud of what I want to talk about. Part of organs or parts of organs, e.g. Senators or Members use the concept of unconstitutionality unlawfully. Once again: in the Polish legal system something is unconstitutional, if the Constitutional Tribunal finds it, no one else, even the smartest authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u126	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: information on the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish Nationals during the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. The text of the information is contained in print No 105. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. At its meeting on 16 June 2020, the Commission heard and informed the Senate Marshal. We are currently waiting for the president of the Institute of National Remembrance. [[Mr. Chairman's on his way.]] [[Senator Barbara Borys-Damięcka: Today is the day of expectations.]] I would like to welcome the President of the Institute of National Remembrance present at the Senate meeting of the Commission for the pursuit of Crime against the Polish Nationals, Mr Jarosław Szark. I ask the President to take the floor and present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u127	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The year 2019 for the Institute of National Remembrance is a series of tasks connected primarily with the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of World War II. The story of what World War II was for Poland still requires continuation, not only in Poland, but mainly abroad. Hence the activity of the institute last year to tell this story in many dimensions. Although the Institute of National Remembrance, the foundation of which is the archive, almost 93 km of the act after the communist security apparatus, is mainly associated with this, with the settlement with the legacy of totalitarian communism, the issue of World War II was present in the work of the Institute of National Remembrance from the very beginning and the effect could be seen by everyone last year. The Institute of National Remembrance operates in many dimensions It is an archival activity, scientific activity, educational activity, commemoration, but also search, identification of our heroes, vetting, prosecution commission. And each of the offices of the Institute of National Remembrance put a lot of effort into making this story the fullest. What does the Institute of National Remembrance do first? We want this story of our history to be not only with our story, but in order for others to participate in it, so that the history of other nations who had similar experiences will also be included in this history of Poland. I think that the beginning of World War II, the Ribbentrop-Molotov pact, which we have become victims with other countries in this part of Europe, is enough to mention, for example, the Baltic States, a good opportunity to start this story. It is on the one hand a community of the history of this part of Europe, and on the other hand a significant ignorance of the western part of Europe about what brought us this pact 2 of our totalitarian neighbours. So we started this story about World War II in a symbolic way, such an exhibition, an exhibition of the wall of totalitarianism. This referred to this famous film by the Institute of National Remembrance, a short animated film from a few years ago, which briefly told us the history of Poland in 1939 and 1989. And this story began with this scene when a Polish soldier tries to push two walls. This is Nazi, German and Soviet totalitarianism, communist. These two walls on which was written the history of our struggles with brown totalitarianism on one side and with red On the other hand, it has become an inspiration to prepare such an exhibition. And We opened it on a symbolic day, for September 17th. We have openly invited the ambassadors of all the countries that contributed to this pact and were its victims. Everyone's here except the Russian ambassador. On the same day, an international conference on the subject was held. Not only Gestapo and NKVD, concerning the role of institutions, the state administration of Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia in repression of Poles. In addition, the Institute of National Remembrance took part in a great media undertaking concerning the inclusion in the main opinion-making journals, in the press all over the world, of articles devoted to the history of Poland during World War II. The knowledge of this has reached millions of citizens around the world. Such an important issue in which the Institute of National Remembrance still wants to be involved is the extraction from oblivion of those fragments of our history which are either absent or present only locally. And such an element associated with the Second World War is certainly what we call the Pomeranian crime, that is, murder on tens of thousands of state elites, independence in Pomerania. We've prepared an educational file that went to every high school in Pomerania. We have prepared workshops for teachers so that we can know what the Szpęgawski Forest was, what was Szpęgawski. It not only reached the inhabitants of Pomerania, where memory of this somehow survived, but to become part of our nationwide memory. And often this crime is called the Pomeranian Katyn. The victims, as I mentioned, were the elite of independent Poland. Often those who fought for independence 20 years ago were the first ones to reach execution platoons and death pits. One of the characters we wanted to remind you of We dedicated her book to the victims of this Pomeranian crime, Dr. Bednarz, called Pomeranian Korczak. It was the director of a mental hospital who was murdered by the Germans along with his patients. He didn't exactly abandon those who trusted him... who he had taken care of before. But they're also characters like... how much does it say about our history, right? This is a consequence of our history during World War II and after the war. This is also the figure of Colonel Wacław Lipiński, a prominent historian of the Pisudczyk camp. During World War II, during Warsaw's defense, he was, you can say, the right hand of President Starzyński. This is the man who was responsible for the radio propaganda at the time, who conducted the broadcasts. This man was completely forgotten, pushed into oblivion. I think that President Starzyński knows or should know every high school student in Poland, while Wacław Lipiński is completely unknown. And yet the Warsaw fighting press in 1939 emphasized that if we beat the Germans, after the war 2 people would deserve a monument in Warsaw: President Starzyński and Colonel Lipiński. The other statue is gone. He is not remembered because after the war he did not accept communist captivity and was murdered by Communists and thus completely removed from our memory for many years. Well, last year we released his memories in the form of an audiobook. This is the new form of reaching the young generation. Let me say this: this is unrelated to the subject of this report, but we have just started a city game in Warsaw for young people, which is devoted to this outstanding character. Well, World War II isn't just about actions that are known, which are symbols of our fate these days. I will also mention the memory maintained in many local environments, which are extremely important for the Institute of National Remembrance. We always emphasize that national memory is the sum of local memory, hence our concern for this memory. We focus on cooperation with local communities. An example of such cooperation, as regards the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the war, is our activities in Działdów. It was there that there was a transit camp where several thousand people were imprisoned, a camp where conditions were no different from those of concentration camps. Many people were murdered there, and among the victims were also Jewish. This camp was located in the city center, in the old prewar barracks. This building still exists today, but neither the city nor the provincial authorities have the means to take care of it. Well, that's where you need a multimillion-dollar investment. This is not part of the task of the Institute of National Remembrance, but we did everything we could to popularize the knowledge of this camp. Last year, a film show was held, which was prepared by a person who was very active in the local association there. Well, it was a show for the senators, organized here in the Senate. But we have also prepared an exhibition, which is now a permanent element of the exhibition in the local museum in Działdów. This is also an exhibition about this camp, which after Dachau and after Auschwitz is the third place where most representatives of the clergy were murdered, among others. such prominent figures as the bishops of the Bronze, Bishop of Wetmanski and Bishop of Nowowiejski. Well, the latter was an outstanding scientist, an intellectual. Another example of supporting these local initiatives is Pomiechówki. Rushrooms are another German crime scene. This camp was forgotten because for several decades in the Polish People's Republic... He was organized in the old forts of the Modlin fortress, and this area was a military territory for many years in the Polish People's Republic. There was no access there. Only after 1989, after many years became an open area. This place is even though awareness or knowledge of it does not function completely because of people who were murdered there because of merit for independent Poland, on representatives of local authorities, on Members of the Republic of Poland, is similar to this crime scene, which is Palmira. In this connection, the Institute of National Remembrance made contact with the local community, which is actively seeking this out of oblivion. We conducted two mass exhumations there, and, in total, we organized two funerals for 150 discovered remains. The third one was supposed to be this year. The work has already begun. Finally, the Institute of National Remembrance will prepare there and finance the cemetery of these victims. Another element was the scientific conference with local communities, with historians dealing with the Second World War, organized just in Pomiechówek. And we're still preparing an hour-long film that will make the knowledge of this place more common, which is also what the inhabitants of Pomiechówka count on. The beginning of the war is not only German aggression, but also Soviet aggression. The knowledge and state of research into East aggression all the time needs to be deepened. Hence our further publications, among others. about the German occupation in Lublin in 1939, about this reality after the Soviets entered. We are also preparing a publication concerning the north-eastern lands of Białystok, Łomża, which were also occupied for 2 years by the Soviet army. The consequences of Soviet aggression were exports to the Soviet Union, Katyn's crime. For many years, the Institute of National Remembrance has organized a film festival related to this subject, the subject of totalitarian crimes. Echa Katynia. Last year for the first time this festival gained international rank. They performed on it and, which is extremely happy, were rewarded for their film productions by documentary artists, among others. from Great Britain and Romania. The Institute of National Remembrance engages in the story of history with its publications, activities, reaching out to all people who are maturely interested in history Or they're first in contact with her. Hence these serious scientific conferences and books. But we've always remembered the youngest. Hence the series of comics, which are particularly popular, for the youngest and for older young people, high school. The latter is involved in many of our... It's a long time to exchange National Remembrance Contests. Many of these, related to the subject of World War II, were organized last year. Our Presence I've already talked about it, but I need to add it. It is not limited only to Poland. We want to actively talk about history outside Poland, hence among others. our session, a scientific conference in London devoted to British participation in World War II. Speaking of Great Britain, we must not forget and we have never forgotten our compatriots, who then created structures of the Polish state in exile, who fought in the Polish armed forces. Nor can we forget about this youngest generation, how numerous Polish contemporary diaspora outside Poland. That's, among other things. for her they are abroad our stops History. In London, where such a stop has been operating since 2018, last year we organized in the most famous Polish church, dedicated to St. Andrzej Boboli, a plaque dedicated to soldiers of the 2nd Polish Corps fighting during World War II. Paradoxically, this corps as a formation was not yet commemorated in this church in London, even though its individual individuals were. This was also an opportunity to present an exhibition of drawings of one of the corps soldiers at the Polish Social and Cultural Centre in London. It was very much received by the London community. At the same time, we remembered... The most important point of reference for the Institute of National Remembrance is independence. We remember of all those who paid a high price for their journey to independent Poland as well as those who were always faithful to it. That was President Kazimierz Sabbat. On the 30th anniversary of his death, on July 19, at the London embassy, we organized a discussion of historians about him, and we also visited a grave. Our countrymen are not only in the UK, but also in other Western European countries or in the United States. In New York City, Chicago is where our history stops and the theme of World War II were present. Speaking of the United States and war issues, the Institute of National Remembrance has been cooperating with the Holocaust Museum in Washington for years. It was thanks to the support of the Museum of the Holocaust that we were accepted by the director of the largest American archives. I am talking about the famous NARA... This is an archive that has billions of pages of documents, including those that interest us, from the time of World War II, from the times of struggle with the communist system. A visit to NARA in autumn 2019 was the beginning of cooperation. Unfortunately, since then, we have managed to organise one working meeting in early spring this year. Another could not be done for known reasons. We also remember the heritage that our fellow countrymen and the most outstanding figures of our history have left behind. I am thinking of the chief chief, General Kazimierz Sosnkowski, a unique figure, who should be our reference point every day. It was in Canada, in Montreal, where he lived, that we hung the plaque dedicated to him. But if we are talking about Poles outside Poland, we must also remember the eastern borders of the Republic. In the name of their memory, we engage in many projects. The stops of history already operate not only in Żytometer, in Grodno and in Lviv, because last year the new stop was opened on these distant limits, at the Polish school in Dyneburg. It grows a little beyond that time, but the issue concerns the military operation from the beginning of 1920, when the Polish troops brought freedom to Latvia. The gratitude for this effort 100 years ago is still alive in Latvia. But the East is also a difficult, painful subject. Although, to put it mildly, not the best relations with Russia we managed to hang in St. Petersburg a plaque commemorating the priest Prelate Budkiewicz, a legendary priest murdered by the Soviet court of 1923. The East is also Ukraine. As far as commemoration and search are concerned, there is still an impasse here. I hope that in the near future, perhaps with regard to the President's visit, this situation will change. Already last year we received some signals that the situation could improve. Furthermore, I would like to stress once again that scientific and archive cooperation with the Ukrainian side is very good. The year 2019 was the year in which we managed to realize a few projects. Well, the 2018 agreement with the archives in Odessa, Vinnica and Chmielnicki was prepared together with the Ukrainian side of the exhibition devoted to the victims of the Polish operation in 1937. This topic has been one of the most important issues that the Institute of National Remembrance wants to extract from oblivion since 2017. Well, it's not even about mining, it's about restoring that memory so that the victims have a proper place in history. The documents in the Ukrainian archives are priceless to us because they describe the fate of our compatriots. So far, within the framework of this cooperation, there have been about 700 thousand scans of documents, including death sentences and files of people sentenced to death only for being Poles. On the basis of these documents we prepared with the Ukrainian party an exhibition, which in 2019 was... It was already shown in Chmielnicki and in 2019. It was shown in Odessa and Kiev. In addition, it was also shown in the United States, as well as in Warsaw and many, many places in Poland. So that this Polish-Ukrainian cooperation in the field of archival activities is also important cooperation with archives of former Ukrainian security It works very well, even exemplaryly. At the same time, we do not forget and never remain silent about the dramatic fate of our compatriots, victims of the genocide of Ukrainian nationalists in East Małopolska and Volyn. In early 2019 we managed to unveil another monument in Szczecin The Institute of National Remembrance was involved in this, a monument to the victims of the crimes in Volyn and in eastern Małopolska, for which the border environments for many years have been waiting for. Memory of Poles abroad is also working with a certain institution very well deserved for memory, to preserve our identity outside the country, and I am thinking about the Permanent Conference of Museums, Archives and Polish Libraries in the West. It is an institution that brings together 25 institutions from all over the world, from Australia to the United States, such as museums and institutes. This is, for example. Institute of Piłsudski in New York, the Polish Institute of Science in America based in New York, many other institutions, such as the museum in Rapperswil, some of which are of great importance to our history. It was at the invitation of the Institute of National Remembrance last year that the MAB conference in London took place, for a few days we hosted representatives of these institutions. We also invited them to the XX General Meeting of Historians in Lublin, and the occasion was the 30th anniversary of the beginning of our journey to independent Poland and the 450th anniversary of the Lublin Union. At the same time, we have prepared an exhibition about poloniki located in the collections of MAB institutions. These collections are impressive. Sometimes we do not realize that these collections of paintings or documents or souvenirs, which are on textbooks, are stored by these institutions, such as the Polish Museum in America with its registered office in Chicago or the Polish Museum in Rapperswil and many, many others. The activities related to World War II were, of course, only part of the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance last year. This activity also concerned the memory of these few days of June 1979, when millions of Poles, during these few days, felt their own strength in free Poland, and I was thinking about the papal pilgrimage and those important words that were said at that time, about calling not only for renewal, but also about the obligation to remember, about identity; about asking not to cut down the roots from which we are growing, about praying for a new face of the earth, which brought us a year later, Solidarity. At the Royal Castle there was an exhibition devoted to this pilgrimage, prepared in Polish and English, which later traveled across the United States to talk about this story, about this time, about those events without which there would be no August '80, and certainly it would not have the shape it had. But it wouldn't be August '80 without a handful of brave people who worked at the Workers' Defence Committee at the time, in the Human and Citizens' Defence Movement, who set up student committees of the Solidarity Committee, which established the Youth Movement of Poland or the Confederation of Independent Poland. It could be mentioned for a long time, but a group of extremely important, related to the Coast, is Free Trade Unions â such a slogan was thrown in Silesia by Kazimierz Świtoń. In 2018, we started commemorating the dead members of the Free Trade Unions on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of this group. The memorial was that in addition to conferences, meetings, we hung plaques on buildings in which dead members of WZZ lived, people such as Maryla Płońska or Henryk Lenarciak, Andrzej Butkiewicz. That was in 2018. The next edition, in 2019, concerned among others. Jan Samsonovich, a man whose death in war is still a mystery. In the building of the Gdańsk medical academy, we hung a plaque commemorating it. Material memorial is the activity of offices commemorating fights and martyrdom. And that's what this is all about, like this one dedicated to free trade union activists. But this is also what is so close to the Institute of National Remembrance, namely the extraction from oblivion of entire areas of our history, efforts of people who took up activities for Polish independence. Such a subject is e.g. The existence of youth anti-communist conspiracy at the turn of the 1940s and 1950s was about 1,000 organizations, several thousand teenagers, high school students who formed several-member groups, wrote passwords, prescribed some flyers on the machine, and were repressed just like adults. It was for them that a camp was created in Jaworzno. And this division of teenagers, as somebody once wrote, is a piece of history that doesn't function in our memory. So at the Institute of National Remembrance there are scientific publications on this subject, showing the scale of resistance of these young people. Who called their organization National Amia, Orlędami, referring to the experience of older colleagues or independent scouts, because the ZHP was then dissolved... For gatherings, for meeting in the woods, for passing grades, they were sentenced to ten-year sentences! We decided to remind this part of our history in schools, restore this story to contemporary teenagers. We started this last year, we continued it this year, in more than 20 schools hung commemorating plaques, the guardians are today's young people, who had not known about this story before. At first, when we started this, everyone looked at us with disbelief, but it was very well received by young people, by teachers, because it turned out that these authentic heroes are peers of today's youth, and all this was happening in schools, where today's youth also goes. And such a natural reference point to their own history is what is extremely important in conveying history. In addition, the Institute of National Remembrance... What is one of the faces of the Institute of National Remembrance is the activity of the Office of Search and Identification. Last year, about 50 places in Poland were searched for the remains of our heroes. Last year such a process was successfully completed, among others. There was a large funeral of 22 people found on the Link. On the other hand, a six-metre-long stone cross stood in the Old Town, which was a permanent commemoration of the captain's soldiers. Henry Flame at the place where they were murdered while they were sleeping when they got to the west. It was an operation of a safety camera designed to make sleepers sleepy because they were given sleeping pills to tear off with explosives and grenades. They have been found, some have been identified, and there is already a permanent commemoration here. Last year was, besides, a certain thing, I think, lasted when it came to scientific activities, i.e. After 7 years of interruption, the third volume of the Encyclopedia of Solidarity was published. The Encyclopedia of Solidarity is the largest scientific project of the Institute of National Remembrance to commemorate the actions of the generation of Solidarity from 1976 to 1989. After 7 years the third volume came out, this year the fourth volume will be happy. And this release will continue. In each volume there are more than 1 thousand names, slogans in kind, mentioned people of solidarity and the pre-August opposition. If we are talking about the Encyclopedia of Solidarity and Publishing of the Institute of National Remembrance, I must say that we have managed to create the largest historical publishing house in Poland in recent years from the Publishing House of the Institute of National Remembrance. Annually we publish about 250 books, from serious scientific studies, from large series of publishers, such as the Fundamental Encyclopedia of Solidarity, such as the National Army in documents, another volume just appeared, there was a promotion organized in London, like the Pro Memoria, card. Wyszynski... There are also popular publications, since we talked about World War II, among others. published in 8 languages a popular Polish Fighting brochure, are comic books for young people, audiobooks, educational materials. As for the educational materials of the Institute of National Remembrance, this offer was so large that in spring this year we created a separate page with educational materials. The year 2019 is the time in which we developed our project of elementary exhibitions. So far, we have prepared 20 elementary exhibitions in one graphic design. These are exhibitions showing the most important moments of our history: September '39, Warsaw Uprising, Silesian Uprising, Wielkopolska Uprising, Bolshevik War, Solidarity Uprising. These exhibitions, placed on the Internet in different formats, can be printed by anyone. They are printed in different formats from Australia to the United States. At the same time, we also prepared a lot of infographics. This is the answer to a time when young people read less and speak more to the image. Several such exhibitions visited the whole of Poland. Let me remind you that the Independence Fathers, the exhibition that we started showing and we were going to show it in 120 cities in Poland, was finally shown in about 300 places in Poland and in dozens of places outside Poland, from Australia to the United States. The year 2019 was also a time of reminiscent of history from 100 years ago, fighting for boundaries, hence the exhibition about this subject. But what is, as I have already mentioned, very important for the Institute of National Remembrance is local history and showing local history in the national dimension. Such a story is the history of Silesian uprisings. It was the Institute of National Remembrance that financed the addition to the press all over Poland devoted to the Silesian Uprisings that we sought to unveil Korfante's monument in the area on 11 November Ub. r., not on the anniversary of his death, in August, so as to put this memory of Silesian uprisings in national history. In 2019 the same was our activity in relation to the small but also important Uprising, the Sejne Uprising. This trend also includes such a great project, created by us by the largest portal in Polish, German and English concerning the Greater Poland Uprising. It is the activity of the institute and several institutions from Poznań, from Wielkopolska, local authorities, municipal authorities from Poznań, voivodeship authorities, museums of Poznań, universities of Poznań. It is a portal which since the beginning of 2019 is such a place of the broadest presentation of knowledge about the Wielkopolska Uprising. Ladies and gentlemen, the work of the Institute of National Remembrance is also an illustration, also the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, but about this activity mainly numbers will speak. The exact figures are given in the report. All I'm gonna say is, for the Institute of National Remembrance, it's important. And I think that's what we're doing, because there are 11 branches, 7 delegations all over Poland. This everyday, organic work on preserving the memory of our 20th century history. And we're trying to do it. The biggest capital of the institute is not the funds for which every year is a dispute, but people. This is a team of educated, dedicated people of the Institute of National Remembrance. And that's why it's so effective. The volume of the report last year shows this. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Would any of you senators like to ask Mr. President any questions? You're welcome, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u129	Mr. President, what's your average salary at the institute? Also tell me what the average pay of the prosecutors is because they're separate. I mean, I'm asking about average pay at all and average pay for prosecutors. And that's my first question. The second question concerns plans to shift or close this investigative unit, because I have heard of such plans. What do you think? Do you think it's appropriate or not? What does it look like from your perspective as head of the institute?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u131	Mr. Marshal, the average wage at the Institute of National Remembrance is about PLN 5,000 gross. Why don't I give you the numbers exactly... I'm sure the average pay of prosecutors is higher. Indeed, there was the idea of transferring the law enforcement commission, removing it from the Institute of National Remembrance. She's also... This is an office that has autonomy. He is directly under the authority of the Minister of Justice, not the President of the Institute of National Remembrance. There is a discussion on this subject. Well, the law enforcement committee is on the one hand investigating. Well, time runs, many investigations are historic. But this is also the involvement of the committee in investigations, which later result in the work of the Office of Search and Identification. This is a problem that arises. The Institute of National Remembrance is a state institution. If that's the will of the legislator... We will execute the bill, and our activity is to implement the law. We will also respect Parliament's decision The way she's gonna be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u132	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're welcome, Senator Michael Sewerinski. [[Additional question.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Senator Borusewicz. You're welcome. Excuse me, senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u133	Mr. Director, I'd like to know if you're in favour of removing the lead from the institute, or if you're against it. Because, of course, the legislator will make the decision, too, but I would like to have information here. I don't know what the grounds are for wanting to remove it. It's probably just that there aren't enough investigations. That's the argument. But I'd like to hear what your assessment of this is, because your assessment will depend on a lot.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u134	Mr. Marshal, before I answer that question, I'll give you the data on question one. Namely at this point, after these regulations from the beginning of this year, the average wage of employees at the Institute of National Remembrance is PLN 6 000 200 gross, which is a little bit more, and the average wage in the commission of criminal prosecution is PLN 17 000. That's what it looks like. Indeed, Mr. Marshal, it is not such a question as to... I would be far from making a clear statement at this point, whether I'm for it or not. I think that the argument that causes this issue to arise is indeed the passing of time. That's what we've been talking about: some of the perpetrators of these investigations don't exist. Well, the D.A.'s office has certain possibilities to access materials that historians don't have. This requires balancing, considering, also the issue of spending it requires. But there's also the question that if this operation were to be performed, I think she should be on the one hand... Because at this point, I'm not even gonna tell you how many investigations there are. Well, I can give you in writing the answer to how many investigations are being conducted. So that's something to consider. Perhaps we need to decompose this process for some years. Besides, there are technical issues. The Office of Search and Identification conducts some of its cases based on investigations conducted by the law enforcement committee. So this dependence would also need to be regulated in some way. It takes time to consider these matters calmly. And one more thing, very fundamental. Mr. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, the law enforcement commission has collected a huge amount of materials during its investigations for years at the Institute of National Remembrance. This is priceless historical material. This would also require determining the question of access to it, who will use it and on what basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You're welcome, Senator Michael Sewerinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u136	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. With your permission, I'll start by thanking you because this isn't for discussion, and then I'll ask you a question. Namely, I would like to thank the President for the promised and sent to my university a package of historical materials in English. I give this to Erasmus students as a compendium of knowledge about Poland. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Did it happen? Right.]] The question is: what is the state of research on so-called. The Augustow manhunt? I ask your CEO every year because that's what I've been interested in for a long time. I would like to ask what the state of research is and what the prospects of this research are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u137	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. Well, actually the Augustow Ob3awa is the crime about which the Institute of National Remembrance, one can say, disseminated knowledge. Even now, this year another anniversary was an opportunity for further publications. We do it all the time. This list of publications, albums, books, studies, exhibitions concerning the Augustów Obława, commemoration, among others. is the historical and tourist trail.In the footsteps of the victims of the Augustow Obława... It's such an activity. Do we know everything? Well, we don't know everything. The problem is access to Belarusian archives, to Russian archives. I think the Belarusian side is afraid of it. It's, I think, the key thing. The fact that the knowledge of the Augustow region, which we will find in the communist documents, will somehow make the Belarusian side a responsible party. This is absolutely wrong thinking. Here the responsible party is the Soviet communist system, not one or another. But at this point, we don't have access to the documents.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u139	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President... Can you hear me? Excuse me? [[Yes, sir.]] Mr President, I have a question about the service proceedings conducted in IPN after the publication by the TVN24 portal of the editorial material of Robert Zieliński and the disclosure by this editor of the fact that he was prematurely killed in an indictment on the crime of the martial law of General Michał Janiszewski. In 2007, the investigator sent an indictment, among others. against General Jaruzelski and the creators of martial law, however, he was removed from the pot of these people by a decree After that, General Michał Janiszewski, who was the actual creator of the name WRON, was dismissed. I know. That's the answer I got as part of the intervention. That you were conducting an investigation into this scandal in the IPN in 2007. Unfortunately, the Attorney General's Office in Gliwice has dropped the case after my notice, which is why I would be grateful to the President for the answer of your internal action on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u141	Mr. Senator, let me answer this question in writing. At this point in my knowledge... All I know is that, in fact, when this case was brought to light, this procedure was initiated at the Institute of National Remembrance, because it was a scandalous decision. I also know that the prosecutor who was responsible for this is no longer working at the National Remembrance Institute. A detailed answer to the question of how it ended, I will present it to the senator in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u142	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! The question concerns Polish-Ukrainian relations, of course, is about the current relations with Volyn and Małopolska. You said we didn't actually go in there with exhumation or search work until now. Did you in any way ask for help from state institutions, e.g. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs to intervene in this regard? You also spoke of good cooperation in the archival field, in the archives. Do you have a full picture of what this tragedy looked like at the IPN right now? Not about names, of course, because it will be very difficult to define, but at least about places that, as if participated in this tragedy, places where Poles were murdered. And one last thing about our kind of decision. It is already dependent only on us, namely Figurative commemorations. Are there commemorations of Ukrainians who were members of the UPA or the CNS in Poland, commemorations that are either illegal or in some way passed the legalization procedure? Does the IPN have information about such commemorations?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u145	Dear Senator, the first question is... Indeed, for some time the Institute of National Remembrance was engaged in various activities that would end in allowing us to work in Ukraine. Well, that ended in failure against the determined refusal of the Ukrainian authorities. Therefore, we asked the appropriate institution of the Polish state to represent us in this matter. And it was done. And they were. The President's last visit last autumn. The Ukrainian declaration of consent to the search, but these were only declarations. The situation hasn't changed. I know that the President's visit to Ukraine is being prepared and there are some signals from the Ukrainian side that perhaps this request of our party will somehow be realized, but the practice so far does not give us much hope here. I'll give you an example. The most honorable prize of the Institute of National Remembrance is the title of the Custos of National Remembrance, awarded to people who are engaged in the work of maintaining our identity. And in 2018 Janusz Horoszkiewicz was honoured with this award. This is the man who has lived in Poland for years, his parents come from the Kresów and for years together with the Ukrainian side, which was also the motive of his reward for commemorating the victims of this crime. Namely in places where there used to be villages He knew where, and they don't exist anymore. He, together with the Ukrainians, with priests or Orthodox or Greek Catholic priests, made such a local celebration and placed a cross there. Those crosses were placed around 40. And a month after receiving this award... It seemed to us that such a form, through common memory, in what else the Church is involved It's the right one or the right one. Hence the National Remembrance Custodian award. A month after receiving this award, he was banned from crossing the Polish-Ukrainian border in his passport, which means he was banned from entering Ukraine. And despite a lot of efforts in a dozen months, this ban has not been revoked. All actions failed. That's why I'm talking about this. Another question: do we have a base like this? On the one hand, since the summer of last year, there has been an online database of victims of genocide in Volhynia and Eastern Małopolska. Namely, at the Institute of National Remembrance, we established a team that deals with this base, placing on the Internet the county after you tell the names, places of the victims. For now, there are the first counties in Volyn. So far, there have been several thousand records. This is a project that is constantly being developed. On the other hand, regardless, in Rzeszów in turn, it is prepared... These initiatives, so to speak, work together. In any case, in our Rzeszow branch we prepared such a scientific study on the victims, but in these areas in the southeast: Lviv, Stanisławów, those issues. The number of those places where these cruel crimes were committed goes to a dozen thousand. We know these places, we know these places. But to commemorate everyone... Well, it's just a huge job for years. And at this point unfortunately there is not here, so to speak, not so much support, but permission from the Ukrainian side. And on our part, as an I.P.N., we're doing everything we can to remember these... To build a base for the victims, to store that memory like this. There we engage in the formation of monuments, reward those who... because this is the time of the last years, when they actually began not to hide, but speak directly about the victims of this crime, remember. And this is where the Institute of National Remembrance gets involved. [[And the third question: commemoration in our territory...]] Oh, yeah. We have a base. These are commemorations of different characters. There are graves in cemeteries where it says the man was a member of the UPA. And those single burials that have status... like the senator said, illegal. We have their base. Maybe in writing I'd answer the senator's question. [[I would very much ask you to answer that third question in writing.]] Unless the principal... Because you're the director of the memorial office to which it belongs. So maybe right away... You have such accurate knowledge. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u146	There you go, Mr. Director.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u147	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As far as Ukrainian objects in Poland related to nationalist organizations are concerned, we can actually divide them into at least 2 groups, i.e. graves and symbolic commemorations. Most of them are illegal, if you can discuss the illegality of the grave at all. Everyone has the right to a grave. The law on graves and war cemeteries, even before the war, provides a grave even to an enemy army soldier. So everyone has the right to the grave. Nevertheless, the way of this grave is already a matter which should be under control and which should be accepted by the competent authorities of Poland. And that check, that acceptance in many cases wasn't there. So that we have graves of members of the organization, nationalist troops, mostly of course Ukrainian insurgent armies. We also have symbolic commemorations, which are absolutely unacceptable and intolerant in Poland, erected illegally, where there are directly inscriptions referring to the glory of UPA warriors who fought for free Ukraine in the territory of the Republic of Poland. There are also commemorations that, so to speak, the lightest category: these are mainly cross-related, as the Ukrainian side defines, victims of ethnic cleansing, as they consider the action of the Vistula. But, as I said, these crosses, which often have only a date referring to the action of the Vistula, are the least controversial and, of course, do not arouse such negative emotions. In total, we recognize about 140 commemorations in Poland. Among them are a few actually legalized objects. These are mostly Ukrainian war graves, memorial sites for the years 1918 and 1920. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u148	Thank you. [[If I may, Mr. Marshal, briefly...]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u149	I would only ask for a list of symbolic commemorations with annotation, whether it is in accordance with Polish law or not. And we leave the graves as if outside the discussion, it's obvious.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u150	Mrs. Dorota Czudowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to ask if Legnica is interested in the Institute of National Remembrance, and specifically very quickly eliminated, immediately after the transition periods, the Soviet prison where the gas station was built very quickly. Well, there's a lot of rumors among the Legnicas, and people often ask... We have set up an obelisk next to this place in 1998 dedicated to the victims of communist crimes, but this place is bothering us, that so quickly it was all cleaned up, so to speak. Is it an object? IPN interests?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u152	There you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u153	Mrs. Senator, we have a project called "Map of Terror," a draft documentation of those places where the authorities of the security apparatus, whether native or Soviet, were based. But as far as this is concerned with this object in Legnica, I would answer in writing. Surely such places are in our interest, if possible, e.g. in Warsaw Prague in January we opened an educational center at the seat of the Soviet NKVD, and we document such places. But exactly what all the circumstances in the Legnica case look like, I'll answer in writing, Senator. [[I'd really appreciate it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u154	Thank you very much. [[And if there's another place in Legnica because there are other places in Legnica... well, about Legnica at all. I'd appreciate it. Thank you.]] Now you ask Senator Krzysztof Brejza a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, General Kiszczak's archives. It was to be public, all the materials collected at General Kiszczak's villa were to be made available to the public. However, when I intervened, I was informed from the State that some of the materials had been separated into various types of proceedings and that some of the materials were not public. But I have a question about one of the materials. On 22 February 2016, the Deputy Director of the Criminal Investigation Commission sent information to the Attorney General. I can't get an answer from the State's Attorney's Office, which is what this information contains, so I'd appreciate it if the President... Does the President have any knowledge of what information has been provided, whether any of the materials found at General Kiszczak's house were attached to this information, in other words, has all the material from Kiszczak's villa been disclosed, or is still some of the documents found there by the IPN prosecutors hidden from the public?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u156	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u157	Mr. Senator, there's not a single document hidden from the public at the National Remembrance Institute. If such a document were to be found, there are evidently some legal issues that make a given document less accessible. From what I know, it's true. But I also suggest that I respond to the senator in writing. That these materials concerning Kiszczak have been disclosed. I don't know the contents of the correspondence, but I'm gonna ask the D.A. to respond to the senator. But let me remind you, Mr. D.A. isn't under my authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u158	Thank you. Senator Brejza again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u159	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Then I'll be grateful to you for coming to the prosecutor's office and getting information on whether any material has been transferred to the National Public Prosecutor's Office, and to provide such unambiguous information as to whether all the material has been disclosed. Unfortunately, according to the information provided by you, some of them are still protected in various types of proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u160	Thank you. Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! Mr. President! I would like to ask if the Institute of National Remembrance is conducting research related to the so-called. Pomorskie crime, i.e. the murder at the turn of 1939 and 1940 by the Germans about 40 thousand Polish citizens, but also people of German origin. Have more of these murdered people been identified recently? And especially: was it possible to finally verify the number and names of people murdered at the end of 1939 in Piśnica near Wejherów? And then there's the second question. The president mentioned that the Institute of National Remembrance supported activities related to the commemoration of Korfante. Was this support also based on financial assistance in connection with the construction of the monument, or was another type of aid implemented by the IPN here? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u162	Senator, I spoke a lot about the Pomeranian crime, about this Pomeranian Katyn, at the beginning of my speech as an element of our commitment to the celebration of the 80th anniversary of the outbreak of the war, which is the subject of the report. In a few sentences, let me remind you that, of course, we are engaged, we are investigating this issue all the time. We published an educational file that went to every school, and there was also a screening of films here in the Senate. Mr. Senator was, I had the honor of watching it with Mr. Senator. There are publications about Szpęgawski Forest, about Dr. Bednarz, one of the victims, there are workshops for young people. There's still research going on, and I know there's gonna be more. The sandstone slowly, also thanks to its cultural activities, thanks to the film "Kammerdyner" becomes part of the national memory. So that we remember this, and the Gdansk branch is very involved in these issues. We co-financed a monument to the Pomeranian crime, unveiled probably already in autumn 2018 in Toruń, with the names of several hundred places, villages where the crimes were committed. We're also building a base for these places. It's very, very difficult to identify names, but we're also trying to make sure that as far as possible these victims are personalized. As for Wojciech Korfante's monument, I will say that the Institute of National Remembrance was ready to engage in the financing of this monument, but it turned out to be unnecessary because the entire burden of financing the monument took on, according to my knowledge, the city of Warsaw. We have released a large album dedicated to Wojciech Korfantem, there are publications, brochures, to popularize his character.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u163	Now let me ask you a question, I have two specific questions about the Institute's activities. Within the framework of this last pension reduction law, security officers have been reduced to a former major. Vincent Dembicki. As the later Colonel Dembicki worked with me, with Hodysz and Alexander Hall, we made statements on this matter, which went to the IPN. And Mrs Marzena Kruk, director of the archive, stated that the archives indicated prizes, is described the entire career path of Vincent Dembicki, so basically determined that our statements have no meaning in this matter. Well, if he received awards, he was in training in Moscow, etc., etc. And there's no information that he was working with us, which is probably good, or else he'd be arrested. This is the only Hodyss group that hasn't been arrested. If the I.P.N., Mrs. Marzena Kruk, director of the archive, believes that based on the archive materials he knows exactly what it was like, and our statements are thrown into the trash, then I want to say that I'm outraged. I would therefore like to have a written reply as to why our statements As I say, mine, Adam Hodysh, with whom he cooperated directly, and Alexander Hall, who received information, as I did, from Hodysh and knew what the sources of information were. It shall not be taken into account. 'Cause it's kind of crazy for me. There is a rule that says that if an SB officer cooperated with the opposition or with the underground, it is not subject to this law. [[It's true, but...]] I also want to say that the information that Hodysh gave us has been preserved. I can point out the information that Hodysz received from Vincent Dembicki. They are in the archives of the European Solidarity Centre. So if you're able to answer now, answer me now, but best if you answer me in writing. And the second point, also for me, is the appalling case of Mirosław Chojecki, who asked for an extra 400 gold. I remind you that Mirosław Chojecki was a member of the Workers' Defence Committee, the creator of the Independent Publishing Office and the entire publishing movement. He worked for many years in this publishing movement, printed, organized, organized machinery metastases from the West. The IPN refused a certificate which allows it to receive this 400-gold supplement paid by another institution. The basis was the signing by Mirosław Chojecki in 1977 of a statement that he would keep secret what he was doing, which is what the Institute of Nuclear Research does. During that time he worked at the Institute of Nuclear Research in Świerk and, of course, it was secret work. After signing this statement, Mirek Chojecki published, provided information, also provided this information to us, other members of the NRA. And now the IPN states, suggests that he was working with security, because on this basis, such certificates are refused. If you have any information about this, I kindly ask you to hand them over if... Besides, I'm asking you to answer in writing. In these two cases, I ask for written information, i.e. why this is precisely the case with Wincenty Dembicki, a former SB officer who also cooperated with me, and why Mirosław Chojecki did not receive a statement of his activity in the democratic opposition and later, during the period of martial law.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u164	Mr. Marshal, all I can say is that Mr. Mirosław Chojecki's activities are well known. At the Institute of National Remembrance in many publications it is presented as one of the creators of independent publishing movement, in the late 1970s. So it is a matter of undisputed matter of his merit in breaking up the communist monopoly of the press, publications, etc., in the struggle with censorship. I spoke to Mr. Mirosław Chojecki, I spoke to his friends, and I gave him the reasons behind the fact that the Institute of National Remembrance took such... i.e. He couldn't make another decision. Plus, we were bound by the laws. Well, maybe this isn't the time to discuss it here and take your time. I'll text you back to the marshal, send it in writing. And on this first point, I'm sure the marshal knows that a few weeks ago, Mr. Adam Hodysz was honored with the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity. And here the Institute of National Remembrance had no doubt about his merits. And as for this case you're talking about, we'll answer it in writing. But, Mr. Marshal, don't look at... You say you're offended. Well, we have... We are acting on the basis of the law, and the provisions of the law are very, very strict in this matter, which is why we make such decisions as I say. I have often talked to Senator Rulewski about this in my previous term of office, who also knew these issues very well. And here's the thing. But we will respond in writing on this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u165	Thank you. Mr. Jerzy Chróścikowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u166	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. President, I have a question. We've talked about publication before... And the 40th anniversary of agricultural registration is nearing. Will this publication really be published before May next year or not? We'd really like that. You've talked to me about this before, so I'd like to know whether this publication is really being conducted and whether it will be published.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u167	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u168	Mr. Senator, this year, there will be an educational file dedicated to resistance of the Polish village to communism. The history of the Independent Self-Governmental Association of Individual Farmers occupies a prominent place there. There's also at the end. And I think it's gonna come out this year or early next year. Another publication describing the activities of the National Committee for the Resistance of Farmers, this underground structure operating in a state of war. This is a matter of coming months. I am sure of that and I can tell you that the anniversaries related to the Solidarity of Individual Farmers Institute remembers and does not forget. We remember about activists, we honor them with the Crosses of Freedom and Solidarity, but also in commemoration, among others. Mr. Perlak or some other activists a few months ago. The theme of resistance of the Polish village is for us at the institute... We're putting the right weight on it. I'll also say... I never want to talk about plans, I prefer to talk about things accomplished, but here I'll make an exception. We are thinking that in the spring of next year, in May we will organize such a great international conference about the resistance of Poland, about the resistance of the village towards communism. An important element here would be the history of the Solidarity of Individual Farmers. The publications will be for sure. The publication, which concerns one of the agricultural activists, Mr Henryk Bąk, appeared a few weeks ago. He too, unfortunately posthumously, was awarded the Cross of Freedom and Solidarity.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u169	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. President, I have a question about the proprietary collection. At what stage is the disclosure of material from this collection, in other words, the liquidation of the reserved collection? Has the liquidation of this collection been formally completed? If not, why and what part of the material remains secret?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u171	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u172	Mr. Senator, according to the law adopted in 2016, several months later the so-called. The restricted collection ceased to exist. The entire resource that was in this set is open and accessible to the public. I can answer that in writing. Several dozens of units in this collection still have a security clause, but I will respond in writing on this matter. The restricted collection doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u173	Thank you very much. Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u174	Mr. President, I have a question. If I remember correctly, when we met at the Committee on Human Rights, the rule of law and Petitions, we talked about moving the prosecutor's office to the public prosecutor's office. I'd like to ask you what the reason for this move is. Why would you think that? Why now? I'd really like an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u175	Thank you. There you go. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Crimes Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Mr. Senator, I just... The same question you asked the marshal.]] [[Excuse me.]] I can say it again... No. I'm afraid I've only just arrived now. I'm gonna check it out. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Brejza.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u176	Mr. President, a few years ago, the TVN Superwisher revealed the circumstances regarding the kidnapping and murder of priest Jerzy Popieluszko. It so happens that for several years the IPN has been issuing communications on the investigation of priest Jerzy Popieluszko, mainly on the occasion of anniversaries, around 19 October. However, these messages are very vague. I would like to ask you this because there are still many doubts in this case. IPN researchers also argue that during the investigation of the abduction site, a dog tracking several times led investigators to a place 200 m away from the alleged abduction site of priest Jerzy. It was also revealed that military officers were in the vicinity of the church in Bydgoszcz. The date of the discovery of Father George's corpse is also at issue. The question is, is there still an investigation in the IPN? If not, when were they finished, and with what result? And if it goes on, what are your next steps? When's this gonna end?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u177	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u178	Senator, I will repeat once again in this Chamber that the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals is not subject to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, even though it is part of the Institute of National Remembrance. That's the statutory record. I think it's best if you answer this question in writing to the prosecutor, the head of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u179	Thank you. Senator Brejza again. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u180	Mr. President, can't you really give us information about whether this investigation of Father George is still going on?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u181	I know there's been some changes, that there's an investigation going on about, among other things. A criminal union in the structures of the Ministry of the Interior of the Polish People's Republic, but, Senator, I want to express myself strictly, so I propose a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u182	Thank you. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Thank you, Mr. President. [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Thank you.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u183	I inform you that the President of the Institute of National Remembrance Jarosław Szarek has undertaken to provide written answers to questions asked by Senators Jerzy Czerwiński, Dorota Czudowska, Bogdan Borusewicz and Krzysztof Brejza. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u184	Mr. President, thank you for this extensive volume. Well, 600 pages you He introduced us here. You could say you put it in the Senate. This is a very thorough report. But I have a suggestion. Since this is 600 pages, some résumé would be useful. I don't know what you think is most important, because there's a lot of information here, a lot of detailed information. I want to say that if we had some résumé, we could always deepen our knowledge, and in order to read this report, we need to have a really huge cut. I don't know, maybe the IPN is doing these 600-page reports, thinking that few will read them. So that's what I'm suggesting. Well, if you present such a report, it will not be possible to say that you have not implemented the law, but with résumé it would be easier. I've had trouble moving the details in that thicket, too. General first. Mr President, the Act clearly clarifies the scope of the IPN: records, collection, storage, development, security, making available and publishing documents of State security bodies produced from 22 January 1944 until 31 July 1990, as well as the security bodies of the Third Reich, the Union of Socialist Republics of Radzit, etc., etc. Subject: Nazi crimes, communist crimes, crimes of Ukrainian nationalists. The IPN should, of course, keep a register of illustrative statements, i.e. in addition to prosecutions you also have a mirror. In fact, the illustration was the main reason for the establishment of the IPN, everything else was a necessary addition, including this pawn of the prosecutor's office, which also at the beginning of the... Oh, no, the magistrate did the artwork. Yes. On the basis of this report and the previous reports, I see that this is the main task, the prosecution of crimes, and also the illustration, slowly, slowly disappearing, the number of these cases is decreasing. As far as Nazi and communist crimes are concerned, it is of course a matter of time, less and less people who have committed these crimes are alive. This is undoubtedly the case for Nazi and communist crimes until 1945, but also for the Stalin period, because they are already over 80 years old. So the prosecution's ability to prosecute is limited. Well, you can chase, knowing that you're gonna have to cut loose, chase only to document. I know that such decisions were made, and it was known that no one was going to appear before the justice system, but documentation was being made. It can be accepted that it was appropriate, although such documentation could also be handled by historians. However, prosecution by prosecutors, as we can see, is quite expensive. The average pay of prosecutors in IPN is PLN 17,000. Well, I was a little surprised. I understand that this is an allowance at the level of payback in the prosecution's appeal office, right? I think so. These are, you might say, very high payouts. So I see that the IPN finds a field of action for itself in other places. First of all, I'm going to point out that the IPN has a huge archive. You should consider whether part of this archive, which does not concern the subject matter of the IPN, that is, the prosecution, the documentation of the crime... It came from various archives, private archives, and I see the emigration archives here. I believe that the IPN should consider, you, Mr President, whether you should not transfer such archives that do not fit the IPN profile to other archives. I know it's very difficult to convey what's come together. And it's a good thing you collect when people come to you with archives, you have to take them, of course. But a significant part of the archives described here should not be the subject of IPN activities. I don't know why you need those kilometers of other archives, social archives, some memories that don't concern the subject of the IPN. However, some things are very interesting, e.g. The Information Centre on the Victims of World War II, only this is the center that collects archives. Isn't it worth it... I think it is worth doing a nationwide action to recreate the list of those who were murdered by the invaders. That's what we need. We don't have a comprehensive letter, we don't have a list of people who died during World War II in camps that were shot. We're operating... We have this list... It seems that in Sandy or in Szpęgawsk... There are 2,000 300 people on this list, but about 7,000 people died there, we say around. For our memory it is important to have a name, a name, when a man died, under what circumstances, and such information can only be obtained by transmission from families, only in such a way. Unfortunately, in Poland nobody does this kind of action. After the war, the environment of the AK... Yeah, they made letters like that. And then... We don't know exactly, we estimate our losses. So that's what I think the I.P.P. could take care of. He's got troops all over Poland, he could do that. It is important that there is a place where I could come to, whether my friend or acquaintance could come and say: from our family these people and those people, in such a situation, died. That's my suggestion. If you're looking for other fields of action, because some of them close because of the passage of time, then you should try to do that. What I'm trying to say is that the exhumation list is very interesting, very interesting. On this list I counted 17 exhumations of Red Army soldiers. I'm not saying this to blame, but to commend that we're trying, contrary to what the Russians are saying, that we don't care about the soldiers who died here. Contrary to this, exhumations are carried out and there are more than exhumations of Polish soldiers. I counted such exhumations 17: Szczecin, Łódź, Łódź, Białystok, Białystok many times, Warsaw, Wrocław, Warsaw again. It's important. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, 10 minutes...]] It's been ten minutes? Okay, that's where I'd end these suggestions. I just want to express my surprise at the case of Major Vincent Dembicki, who cooperated in the period before the underground, during the underground, during the martial law. I received very important information from Hodys because he was an intelligence officer. I would also like to express my surprise, but the outrage of the Mirosław Chojecki case and the decision in which you refused to confirm it, which is as if you have indicated that something is wrong... But aside from the archives... I understand that you're looking at the archives, and if there's no information about Dembicki that he's working with the underground, that's a good situation for me, and that's a bad situation for you. Okay, because that's why he wasn't detected and arrested. And the case of Mirosław Chojecki, the creator of the underground opposition publishing movement? Well, you can't just... You shouldn't leave it like that. I know many people who have done many times less than he has done, many times, and have received this 400-gold benefit. And this situation is unacceptable to me. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u186	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I would like to express my profound amazement at the speech of the President of the IPN and the lack of concrete answers to the most important questions raised here. How the president of the IPN might not know if he was involved in the kidnapping and murder of priest Jerzy Popieluszko So the biggest crime of communist power in the 1980s is being investigated, or is this investigation not being investigated? Then who's to know? How can one not be aware of why one of the communist generals was removed from the charge of introducing martial law in Poland by a strange coincidence? And not just any communist general. I will remind you that General Michał Janiszewski was the creator of the Military Council of National Rescue, he was associated with the communications forces, he was General Jaruzelski's right-hand man, and many consider him to be the person who controlled General Jaruzelski's actions. And this man, this communist general, is alive. In 2007, the prosecutor makes a mistake and considers him to be a dead man, separates his thread from his resolve and dies. And this man lives for nine more years and bears no responsibility. It was one of the biggest cases: an indictment for martial law. And in such a serious case led by the IPN, there is one mistake, and after years, IPN's management is unable to inform of the outcome of the investigation, which is a strange coincidence that has been made in such a case. I would like an institution that has almost a half-billion-dollar budget to act in an efficient, reliable, solid way. I wish that this institution, with this kind of funding, along with the development of modern technologies, could benefit from these technologies. See how the Central Bureau of Police Investigation works, the X-Files, how many things are explained years ago. I'd like the IPN investigators to act equally consistently and even though they're taking matters from years ago. That's why in recent weeks I turned to, among others. in the 1985 murder of Margaret Targowska-Grabinska In this case, in the publications of the IPN, IPN historians themselves admit that there may have been a mistake in the communist services. Margaret Targowska-Grabinska, living in Saska Kępa, was killed. And nearby, a few blocks from this woman, lived another Margaret Grabińska. She was the daughter-in-law of patron Grabinski, who then acted in the trial of the assassins of priest Jerzy Popieluszko, was the proxy of Father Jerzy's parents. The assassination took place on May 9, 1985, on a communist holiday, a celebration of victory. After 4 years, on July 22, 1989, Aniel Piesiewicz was murdered. So these are two cases of proxy murders. It can be said that in the latter case also related to agents Father George's family on the 2nd communist holiday, and these are two cases of unexplained murders until today. This first case, the murder of Margaret Targowska-Grabinska, is not widely known to the public. I went to the IPN and did not get a specific answer, whether you would take any action to use new technologies, also to use legal solutions, because in recent months we passed a statute abolishing the statute of limitations on communist crimes. I've made an appearance on this case to the Chief of Police. Maybe the CBI will take this case, for example by examining the biological data or fingerprints that are collected. But there are many more such cases, especially those of the 1980's. There's a case of Dorota Strynkiewicz's suicide. There is much more to these matters, but unfortunately you have the impression, e.g. When I ask you a question, I'll go back to the beginning of my speech. On the matter of priest Jerzy Popieluszko and hearing the reply that the President of the IPN does not know whether or not the investigation is ongoing, that on this section of the IPN does not take any concrete and effective action. There is also a lack of information on the results of investigations in 2019, prosecutions, accusations, successes of prosecutors who work vertically in IPN. To conclude, I would like to wish, and above all, the IPN, that this activity of the investigative unit should be an effective activity. But by observing the situation and listening to the President's reply today, I regret to have serious doubts about this effectiveness.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u187	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Aleksander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u188	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! In his speech, Marshal Borusewicz scored this entry into new areas. It seems to me that in recent years, in the IPN activity as in the lens, the focus is on acting according to Parkinson's theory, i.e. multiplying existences only to work or show that you are working, expanding certain tasks so that the work fills the time available for completion. That budget that swells from year to year... While I was still in charge of the Civic Platform, I was equally critical, so this is not my personal crusade in relation to management, it is my crusade in relation to an institution that should by nature, at least it would seem, simply be extinguished. She should work through certain tasks she has been tasked with, she should sum up the performance of her tasks and close this chapter. However, from year to year the budget of IPN is growing, it is bigger than the budget of the Supreme Court, which we certainly need far more than dozens of historians who duplicate certain issues and topics from year to year. I was talking a long time ago about this prosecutor's office. Because it wasn't just Marshal Borusewicz who said... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Would the senators please finish the discussion or step outside the door? [[Gentlemen of the Senators...]] Can I please? Thank you very much. [[Because the senator can't speak.]] Thank you very much. That's not the only thing that's 17,000 zlotys. Compared to every linear prosecutor... these comparisons were like, I don't know, three cases or five cases compared to dozens or 100 cases at the D.A.'s office, for example. I'm a district police officer. [[Voice from the room: Appeal.]] Not even in the appeal. I'm saying... Of course, lower prosecutors worked much harder for less money. The kind of gem is that this prosecutor's pawn found out from the foreign press that they're still alive. This is information from a few years ago. The people, the English soldiers who caught... were diving after the disaster in Gibraltar, diving in that crashed plane. Well, the procedure was so intense that we had to find out after a dozen years of investigating that there were still eyewitnesses. And that's what I'm gonna find out by accident. Therefore, I think it is a waste of money for Poles. And I hope that this budget will slowly decrease. Of course, provided that, like a few years ago, the scope of the institution's operation will not be extended, e.g. By the 19th century. Because, to the surprise of many people, you have withdrawn your interests by twenty years. And I will continue to claim that mostly because your work was over and you had to find a new field. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u189	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u190	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. President! First of all, I would like to thank you for the work of you and the institution under you, and I would really like to thank you very much. This institution is needed, it is a detailed report, but also what you have outlined here in brief, shows that for many years it will be necessary, there are still a lot of tasks ahead of you. Therefore, I will not agree with the previous speaker here that you should be slowly extinguished, as defined. Of course, it is best to destroy, i.e. Don't give money. I hope that as long as the Law and Justice decide on the budget, you will exist and have adequate resources for your actions. Thank you very much again. Do you need an IPN? Well, that's what the name of the institution says. There's a word in that name for memory. And it is known that nations who lose their memory also lose their identity. The IPN is just to refresh this memory, first, to refresh, second, to restore. Maintain, but at the same time restore, by simply investigating the facts. This is the cycle: first research, possibly archived, then search in the field, if possible 'Cause it's not always like that. now in Ukraine is not After that, possible exhumations, identification of victims, worthy of their burial, as well as symbolic commemoration, i.e. monuments, plates, and database creation. Well, if these databases are available on the Internet, then we all have this memory at our fingertips. And at the end of the day, education started with the young generation. In this report, which you have presented, I have counted 340 publications. Well, that's a sign of something. This practically means one publishing house a day. There are only photographs of the covers of these publications. Isn't that enough? I don't think so, but I think we're gonna need more. It was so until recently that there were Unfortunately, also in our society, in our public circulation Some taboo topics that should not have been touched so as not to be exposed to mainstream media ostracism or even social ostracism, possibly trials. It's not like that now, fortunately, but there are still areas to study. The Institute of National Remembrance is also responsible for this, because only he has the resources and the staff, which is able to do it in a comprehensive, detailed way, and so that later it can be seen on the Internet, whether in the form of publications or databases. What were those taboo topics? Well, for a long time it was our relationship with the Soviet Union. Not anymore. Until recently... I would like to remind you that the word "genocide" only introduced the Senate of the previous term into the public circulation when it comes to genocide on the Eastern Ends of the Republic of Poland, carried out by the Ukrainians. Until recently, as I said, this taboo topic was Ukrainian issues, historical history, difficult history in which Poles were victims of Polish-Ukrainian relations. But so far, there are topics that haven't been fully... Well, maybe not so much explained as based in the public opinion. I just happened to find a communication on the IPN website, a communication dated 11 April 2019. The title is in response to media reports on Lech Wałęsa's cooperation with the Security Service. The first sentence of this Communication: The issue of cooperation between Lech Wałęsa and the Security Service in the first half of the 1970s is undisputed. After a background check, after historian's inquiries, it's obvious. Okay, but if it's obvious, then why are there other environments that undermine this indisputability? Well, they are. Because what, because a dozen or dozen times repeated in some medium, a lie becomes true? Speaking a lie, I think Lech Walesa did not cooperate with security in the 1970s. Maybe that's the end of the line, Mr. President. I don't know how. Maybe we need to reopen some proceedings, some procedure? I will remind you that there was a judgment or, in fact, a judgment of 11 August 2000, which stated that Lech Wałęsa had not reported and made a true illustrative statement. Okay, this is a court ruling. There must be new facts. And these facts are, after all, Kiszczak's closet. What about the status of the victim that the IPN itself issued in 2005? Something needs to be done to end this case, and so those who are still alive remember who have access to documents, just move this case to history. She must become historical, otherwise she will still influence the behaviour of individual individuals, institutions. And one last thing. By the way, by the way, I would call it, an analysis of monumental issues, I will remind you that we have added monuments to the act decommunizing public space, and I realized that in Poland we do not have a definition of a place of national memory. There was a law that introduced this definition, and it talked about how to establish a place, how to take care of it, who's responsible for it, and so on. Paradoxically, this return on the national memory is in the IPN Act, but is not defined. Shouldn't it be... Because now it's different compared to what it was like, when this bill, this bill, because it didn't become a law, it affected the Sejm. Now there is no more Council for the Protection of Remembrance of Fighting and Martyrdom, but these tasks are mostly taken over by the Institute. Mr President, shouldn't we either supplement the IPN Act or even write a new law on places of national memory, using that project, but also bearing in mind the current legal status? I think if it came from you, a brush like this, I'd say the project... You don't have a legislative initiative, but if you drop this off to us, to the Legislative Commission, we're... That's why, among other things. There's also the Senate. We are ready to direct such a project to the Sejm, of course after processing. I'm asking for such a proposal, if I may. And thank you again for your work. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u191	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. Would the President still like to take the floor and comment on the senators' speeches in the debate? [[President of the Institute of National Remembrance of the Criminal Investigation Commission against the Polish National Jarosław Szarek: Króciętko.]] You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u192	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Several points need to be corrected. First of all, the foundation of the Institute of National Remembrance was absolutely not the illustration, but the acquisition of archives after the communist security camera. It was our statutory assignment. The purpose of this acquisition was to investigate... to make these archives available, investigate and disseminate knowledge. These over 90 km of archives for decades not available, which... the knowledge contained in these archives has given rise to completely new research opportunities, showed what the communist system really was. On the one hand, she showed heroic attitudes, resistance to this system, but on the other hand she showed unworthy attitudes, and she showed breaking people, human weaknesses. The Mirror Office at the Institute of National Remembrance appeared 10 years after the establishment of the Institute of National Remembrance. I have already said three times here that the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals is not subject to the Institute of National Remembrance. She is under the authority of the Minister of Justice and the President of the Institute of National Remembrance has no influence on the activities of law enforcement committees. I didn't say I didn't know if there was an investigation into the Fr. Jerzy Popieluszko, only at what stage it is at, because the committee is conducting these investigations a little more. It's one of the most important investigations, as is the investigation into a criminal union in the Home Office. I suspect that this issue of murder on the priest George Popieluszka is present there as well. And I said that I would answer in writing, but that question was once again asked here. Another question that came out here. Well, I'll say it surprised me. It is alleged that the Institute of National Remembrance operates in further areas in order to find a justification for its existence, its work. Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is simply something extraordinary. I remember that a few years ago, history was removed from high school, the number of lessons was reduced. I don't know how you can give such opinions in a situation where our ignorance of history is immediately exploited by people who do not wish us well. This is, I think, one of the most important elements, because knowledge gives us the opportunity to defend, gives us the opportunity to discuss. I've said it in the Seym before, but I'll do it here. There was a time in Poland after 1989, when the elections were won under the slogans - let's choose the future. There was no interest in the past, the solidarity was Styrofoam, it was a long time ago, but at that time others wrote a story for us. Mr. Marshal, today the symbol of the end of the communist system is not the strike in which you participated, nor the gate of Gdańsk Shipyard. You remember it perfectly: these people at the gate, the gate in flowers, the portrait of John Paul. II, the image of Our Lady Only one of the very spectacular effects of this protest was the destruction of the Berlin Wall. Well, we can't forget everything we brought in the history of the 20th century. It was not the Institute of National Remembrance, it was the legislator who extended our activities beyond 1939 until 1917. I remind you that the institute was created to settle with the legacy of communism, the totalitarian communist system, and this system began in Soviet Russia in 1917. The priest Konstanty Budkiewicz, who died in 1923, is one of the victims of this system, mentioned here by me and commemorated by a plaque in St. Petersburg. 1937 and 1938 are also an important time. World War II issue. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a look at the loss.pl website run by the Institute of National Remembrance. There are over 5 million victims of World War II listed by name. We collect this data all the time. The Information Centre on Victims of the Second World War receives over 100,000 questions annually about the fate of our ancestors during World War II. The Institute of National Remembrance is the only institution in Poland. Bad Arolsen base, covering tens of millions of victims of concentration camps. Thanks to this database, we provide answers to over 100,000 people who ask about the fate of their loved ones during World War II. Perhaps our greatest weakness is that we do the work, not the PR and the stories about what we do. We work daily on organic, systematic work to sustain and preserve our historical heritage from the 20th century. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I state that the Senate took note of information about the activities of the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals in the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. Thank you very much to the President of the Institute of National Remembrance, Mr Jarosław Shark, for presenting the information. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19. The text of the Act is contained in print No 207 and the committee report In print No 207 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I have the honour to present a report on the work of our committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 17 September 2020 amending certain laws to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID-19. Our report is in print No 207 A. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, after examining the law, discussed it, with the participation of the Minister and his accompanying persons, of course, decided to introduce 15 amendments to the Act. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the bill we are considering is another one of the laws often called antivirus shields, another one being considered by the Senate and our Committee on Budget and Public Finance. This law of the Sejm has amended 18 laws. I will not mention all these laws, but they concern a very wide range of cases, but this time mainly focused on issues related to the financial, investment and activities of the Prime Minister, the Council of Ministers in matters relating to contacts between government administration and entrepreneurs. The proposed solutions are intended to stimulate investment processes in the transport sector. There are regulations, provisions on capital investments in Polish Railway Lines, and there are also talks about construction and modernisation of railway stops, financing by the Self-Government Roads Fund of investments on roads managed by local government units, financing of investments in infrastructure providing access to ports of vital importance for the national economy, increasing financing of infrastructure for land transport, rail, road infrastructure from the National Road Fund and the Railway Fund, speeding up the transfer of budgetary resources to investments related to land transport infrastructure. To this end, a number of amendments have been made to the Act, e.g. on the fact that the Polish Railway Lines of the Joint Stock Company will be powered by the funds of the state budget, intended for investments related to the modernisation of stops and railway lines. There will also be an increase in the share capital of ports of fundamental importance to the national economy by issuing fiscal securities and thus providing the means necessary for the implementation of investments in infrastructure providing access to ports, in particular the construction of shields. In view of these actions, the aim of which is to increase the financial commitment of the state budget in Polish Railway Lines and in ports of primary importance, the Act also provides for changes in supervisory boards so that representatives of the Ministry of Finance will be included in the supervisory boards of PLK and these port companies. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance has shared the belief that the supervisory boards of these companies should have representatives of the Minister of Finance, but we have not amended this law. Our doubt was that we thought there was no need to create a statutory record in this matter. The issue of who, what representatives, which ministries should be on the supervisory boards, is the matter of government policy, the Prime Minister's decision, and also the Minister responsible for the supervision of State Treasury companies. When we talk about the supervisory boards of the Treasury companies, I would like to say once again that the committee considers it advisable for the Treasury companies to find representatives of the Minister of Finance, moreover, at the committee's meeting we said that in most of the primary companies, the most important ones from the point of view of the Treasury, just representatives of the Ministry of Treasury should be on the supervisory boards, for the benefit of these companies, for effective and efficient supervision of these companies. However, the committee felt that this should not result from legal solutions, but rather from rational, smart, thought-out state policy. In these points, it is clear that the problem of supervision of companies of the State Treasury It follows from the fact that the ownership of these companies is dispersed at the meeting of the committee. This is an absolute mistake. I stress this in the context of any debate that raises the issue of supervision of companies of the Treasury. The lack of uniform institutionally focused supervision of State Treasury companies leads to the fact that the Minister of Finance or other ministers must demand their representation by law, and this should simply result from the rationality of the action, the rationality of which should decide. Probably sooner or later, the government and the governing coalition will return to this solution, that the supervision of companies of the Treasury is exercised by 1 minister, minister of the Treasury. This was even meant to be the case for a time when the Minister of State Assets was mentioned. Although he had a slightly different name, he was to supervise the Treasury companies. However, today, unfortunately, this supervision is still scattered among various types of ministers, the Minister of Infrastructure, the Ministers of Maritime Affairs and Shipping, etc., etc. These companies are simply torn apart, divided between different ministries. The Commission considers this solution to be wrong. Therefore, in order to actually ensure that this solution is implemented so that the finance minister's representative is on the supervisory board, we have accepted the solutions that have been proposed here. However, once again, I am saying that the committee has drawn attention to this rather in this spirit, that such a statutory recording of this formula is unfortunately a sign of weakness of state institutions and not their strength. The Act also makes quite a significant change in terms of reducing the rate of excise duty on fuel and increasing the fuel levy. These changes from the consumer's point of view, i.e. the one who buys the fuel, are invisible, but from the point of view of the state budget, it is clear that the Minister of Finance We couldn't fully understand this philosophy at the committee's meeting. In an informed manner, it renounces part of its revenue and transfers that revenue through this statutory amendment directly to the National Road Fund. It would seem that the case is obvious, simple and even good. We have not tabled amendments on this matter, but we have pointed out that another large group of state budget resources is coming out of the budget, there is, in addition to parliamentary control, a minor influence on it also the Minister of Finance, is in the next fund, this time in the National Road Fund. Of course, from the point of view of road investments, the situation will be beneficial, because there will be more resources for road construction, but if we look at it through such fiscal correctness, the principle should be that these funds become a source of revenue for the state budget and, as a result of the decision of the Minister of Finance, after approval by the Sejm and the Senate, are allocated to these or other investments, including the road fund. Well, at least that's how it's been so far that it's rather the finance minister who tried all his income. In the sense of State revenue, the funds were rather exceptional and forced on the Minister of Finance. These were exceptions when the Minister of Finance sought to create another fund or to increase this fund at the expense of taxes or excise duties. On this point, at this point, a rather large discussion at the committee's meeting related in general to the situation of the state budget this year. We know that we are before the law amending the budget law for 2020, it is already in the Sejm, it is after the decision of the Committee on Public Finance, the vote on it will be on 7 or 8 October, it will reach us in mid-October, so we will consider it at the end of October in plenary. What is worth paying attention to? As we all know, in view of the situation of the pandemic of Coronavirus, the revenue of the state budget has decreased this year. Well, we know that, that's tax revenue and all that, you know. But in this bill, which we are proposing to you to adopt with amendments adopted by the budgetary committee, for various other purposes, including road investment, for other investments, e.g. more resources are allocated to the municipality than was planned in the budget law for 2020. You could say: that's good, we're happy that there will be more roads, etc., more railway lines and various other investments. Well, you just have to see the problem of where the funding comes from to finance this project. They are unfortunately a result of all kinds, I would say, manipulation, but maybe not in such a bad way... They're trying to change or kind of mix a little bit in the whole budget system. Well, revenue is clearly lower this year and investment expenditure is much higher. At the meeting of our committee, one of the ministers or directors of the department said: we found additional money for investments. The senators pointed out that there is no such thing, because this money is nowhere on the street, and it is not that someone happily found one or another package that someone else lost, but this money, this money, unfortunately, comes from an increase in the government budget deficit. The Minister of Finance does not answer the basic question: how will this money be returned in the future? This is a key issue when it comes to the functioning of the state. We have also been introduced into this law, and we have been discussing a lot on this subject, the issue related to the so-called. non-extinguishables. So far, the practice was that the non-extinguishable funds were a margin of expenditure from the state budget, namely funds which, for various legitimate reasons, could not be spent in a calendar year. The decision has always been... the Minister of Finance in this matter has always been in favour of quite strict action. I say that always, because it was no matter who was in charge, whether it was the PiS or the Platform, the SLD or the AWS, no matter who, in this case, was always a suprapolitical agreement. It was agreed that non-extinguishing measures should not be available to those for whom this money was allocated until 31 March of the following year. Here, the government has proposed a solution whereby non-extinguishables, and on a large scale, are involved in virtually most of the investment funds... This time will last until 30 November 2021. What are the consequences of this solution? In practice, this means that this year we have a budget, which is a budget for 2 years simultaneously. So the budget in practice... In short, the 2020 budget and the 2021 budget will be a single budget. We have accepted the amendment to the law, which is an amendment concerning VAT. In this case, there has been a dispute in this House about VAT for years. As the senators often remember, during the rule of the Civic Platform, during this great crisis, it was decided that VAT would be increased to 23% from 22%. This decision was made in 2015 as a border year. And by the end of 2015, this rate expired. Therefore, as of 1 January 2016, these old rates, i.e. 22%, 7%, started to apply again. And 5%. At the time when the PiS came to power, in autumn 2015, one of the first laws was the decision to raise this tax to the rate which was temporarily adopted by the Sejm. This case was later adopted every year by Parliament. And even... And it was said that this is only for a transitional period when there will be a difficult situation in the state budget. And yet last year and previous years were years of very good economics. And we've always been careful. The opposition in the Senate, today the majority in the Senate In this case, it is appropriate to return to this basic rate, which is 22%. That never happened. At the moment, this issue is once again under discussion. Therefore, the majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance decided that it did not agree to raise VAT to this rate 23%. And it must be made clear that any such change in VAT at the moment does not burden those who no longer rule for five years, but those who have ruled for the last five years. This law also proposes solutions to facilitate the financing of the establishment or operation of daycare centres, children's clubs or daily carers. These provisions and sources of funding are also to be used until 31 November 2021. Another provision on which we, as a majority of committees, considered that it should not be included in this budget law is provisions on the adoption of government programmes under which financial support is to be provided to individual entrepreneurs or groups, taking into account relevant specific regulations and public aid requirements. We believe that in this case... Well, you shouldn't finance projects that will be very individualized and aimed at... and here in this case will be, well, a rather free decision of the Council of Ministers. Such provisions should have the statutory status of regulations drawn up with the appropriate procedure. The Minister said that the projects had already functioned, that they were financed in such a way. But so far these special government programmes, in which aid was actually provided, have concerned public entities which were subject to government administration. Other such cases: the provisions granting during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic declared by the COVID and within 3 months of their withdrawal to the voivode, the Minister responsible for Health and the President of the Council of Ministers the right to issue orders addressed to entities listed in the legislation of competence have been restored. It's a recipe that's come up, too. We believe, as a majority of committees, that such rules relating to the issuing of orders, particularly to local governments and businesses, should not be implemented in this way. Like I said, change is about 17 laws. I am unable to mention all the changes and all the doubts that the Committee of Budgets and Finances had here and the issues that it has pointed out. Finally, it is worth noting that the law regulates e.g. issues related to the spending of the Social Fund. It empowers not only the rural assembly, the rural meeting, but also the Soviet Councils to make decisions on these matters so that they can actually function rationally and efficiently in the conditions of the COVID-19 pandemic. As I said, we accepted 15 amendments. We ask the High House to accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u195	I thank the rapporteur very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Is this the question that any of you senators would like to ask? Apparently, the senator's report was so exhausting that none of your senators, colleagues, would like to question... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry, there's a question from room 217.]] Is it? Unfortunately, I didn't have a preview, so... [[Senator Jolanta Hibner. I didn't write because your secretary wasn't here, so that's how I leaked the information.]] Here you go, then, Senator Hibner. We ask you, Senator, to ask the Senator rapporteur a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u196	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I would like to know if there were issues at the committee meeting that concern health issues, but sort of more broadly, and when, at the request of the Minister of Health, it is possible to impose on the body of the local government... It is certainly about hospitals or clinics, but not only, because it is about entrepreneurs and other legal persons, for example. the kind that run warehouses or wholesalers. Can you impose an obligation on them all, that e.g. do they have to transfer medicinal products, medical devices, foodstuffs, equipment, medical equipment? And that this is to be done even on an oral order for which immediate execution is required? Was such a thing considered at the committee meeting? And did we? In fact, we should be in such a way that this command is to be executed immediately... It is to be implemented at the request of the Minister and even other entities, e.g. The voivodship, the voivodship, will then pass on the information to the minister. Whether this was discussed at the committee meeting in such a way as to make it possible to do so, i.e. is this a way of proceding, on an oral request or in a text message? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u197	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u198	Yeah, this case was the subject of our analysis, I was talking about it. This is the wording of the article. 16 point 1. We propose that these provisions be deleted.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of the senators and senators like to address the question to the senator of the rapporteur? I understand that we are absolutely sure that none of your senators participating in our deliberations wants to ask a question. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister. Minister Sebastian Skuz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The subject matter of the proceedings is the presentation of a government law amending certain laws in order to counter the socio-economic effects of COVID. As Mr Marshal said, Mr President presented this proposal in very detail. This law is needed to minimise the negative effects of the pandemic, as it is essential to take rapid, adequate action to minimise risks. And for that very purpose... Microphones... Thank you so much for your help. For this purpose, some solutions have been presented here, mainly pro-investment solutions, and many areas of infrastructure can be mentioned here. The first issue is a significant power supply, because about 3.7 billion PLN, the Fund for Roads of Local Government. So the final beneficiary of these measures will be local government units. There is also a recapitalisation of PLK for PLN 1 billion 850 million. There's an increase in the revenue from the fuel levy. We are also referring to the issue of keeping VAT rates at the level of the current year. Maybe I would just allow myself to refer to what the President said about the doubts that arose during the work of the Senate Committee. I don't think you can talk about data manipulation or solutions here. This is simply the issue of maintaining investment, public investment in place of private investment. And I think that such early provision of resources, the settlement of tenders this year, is as legitimate as possible from the economic point of view. As regards the issue of change, reduction of excise duty and increased fuel levy, I would point out that this is a neutral solution for the public finance sector within the meaning of the European Union's solutions. So just one source decreases, the other is elevated. For the public finance sector, within the meaning of EU legislation, it is a neutral solution, but money immediately becomes a significant, pro-investment-oriented money. As far as issues relating to value added tax are concerned, the provisions introduced are not of a periodic nature, but are new, permanently introduced, and the point is that this increase applies when in a given year we apply a stabilizing expenditure rule related to epidemic issues. There is one more thing I would like to talk about, namely the issue of unexpired expenditure. Indeed, under normal conditions, as the Public Finance Act says, this is a 3-month period. Nevertheless, this year is an exceptional year. I think these processes, mostly investment processes, have been frozen for several months. In view of the above, I think it is worth doing such an extension. And I would like to point out that there is no manipulation here, because any non-extinguishable expenditure planned in a given financial year, which can be implemented next year, is burdened with the deficit of the current year. As regards the doubts in the area of multiannual programmes, I would like to point out here that investment programmes, socio-economic programmes already exist under the resolutions of the Council of Ministers and do not only concern public institutions which conduct their current or investment activities, but also concern entrepreneurs. We have, for example, now. The programme, which is addressed to the PFR, and the PFR directs it to small, medium-sized but also large enterprises. So these programs are already in place. This, in turn, would complement what we already have and we have a covid fund, a PFR fund, a liquidity fund at Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. As for the provisions that you spoke about, Mr President, that they enable the issuing of orders to counter the COVID pandemic, and there is a proposal for this to be deleted, I would just like to draw attention to the following: these provisions were already part of the legal order, they were adopted. Here is only a request for the adoption of a law, an extension of the possibility of referring to these provisions and their use during the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u201	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may raise questions from a place of no more than one minute to the representative of the government relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Kazimierz Klein. Then Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, who I've already written down.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I'm sorry about that. I should have asked them at the committee meeting. I always try to do that. If we're doing something at the committee meeting, I'm trying to get this cleared up in depth, but this case came out... I have already read about this after our meeting and I would like to ask the Minister because this is important from the point of view of possible amendments. I wouldn't want to put them together if your explanation was enough. During the work on the draft law in the Sejm, an amendment to the article was added to the submission. 15 zzzzzt lips. 1 specialty concerning COVID-19. This provision sets out the amount of severance payments to be paid by employees who are exempt from the government administration following the fulfilment of the obligation to reduce the employment referred to in the covid specialty. Please inform me what the effects of this change will be. The amendment shall prejudge that the worker who is exempt shall be entitled only The word "only" was added in the Seym. A check of the amount referred to in Does this mean that a staff member, a member of the civil service corps meeting the conditions laid down in Article. Article 94 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Civil Service Act to receive a 6-month check-in will not receive such a check-in, and will receive only because such a provision was introduced in the Sejm, a check-in of the amount specified in the covidowy specialty, i.e. 3 times the salary? The current wording of the article. 15zzzt lips. 1 could indicate that the COVID-19 special act grants an additional right to check-in, so that employees will receive a covidary check-in together with a briefing resulting from the Civil Service Act. It must be remembered that the justification for the bill and the government self-correction does not answer my question, because this change was added during the procession in the Sejm. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u203	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u204	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer that question, I'm going to say that the original recipe... His intention was just to reduce the amount of payments and to reduce the coincidence of benefits. And that's where it's been clarified. That was the original intention of this recording. It's supposed to be equal to three times the salary. Thank you. [[So employees who have the authority to work in a civilian corps to pay a salary of six, that's the law they're losing?]] Yes. That was the original intention of this provision. [[And that's the way it is right now.]] Yes. That's how it's been clarified. [[So you want it to be like this.]] Yes. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u205	Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u206	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I should ask that at the committee meeting, too. Some things I know. Some of them are worth talking about from the Senate stand. Minister, in the announced deficit in 2020, I think it'll be 79 billion, if I remember correctly. Please tell us, what amount will be the country's contribution to the investment programmes as part of all these increases. In general. That's the first question. Second question. At the committee meeting, we proposed and adopted It's a proposal, of course. Delete the entry for the VAT rate process: not 23 and 22% , not 8 and 7% . Please tell me what the total amount would be in a year if this lower rate had passed. The third question on VAT may not be directly related to the law, but is linked to it when it comes to financing. Minister, I have recently reviewed the data published by the bodies of the European Union. These were data on the VAT gap in the countries of the European Union. Is it true that in 2020 the VAT gap will evolve at 14,5% GDP?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u207	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u208	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To answer the first question, I can say that infrastructure expenditure... In general, it is expenditure and maintenance and investment. [[...For entrepreneurs.]] There's an increase of about 14 billion. Add 3 billion in terms of investment expenditure on defence, over 1 billion in services related to the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, about 600 million in higher education, 587 million in favour of the Minister for Culture and National Heritage and about 280 million in the maritime economy. So investment expenditure will be increased by this order. As President Kleina said, we add this to what was originally planned. [[What about this business program? I'm sorry to take your word for it.]] As regards business programmes, these are actions related to the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund. The value of this fund is currently estimated at PLN 112 billion, with the implementation of which is at the level of approx. 63.64 billion, of which 12 billion are resources for local government units. I'm answering the second question. What would this loss in the tax on goods and services be like? We estimate it at about PLN 9.9 billion. It's just how much revenue would fall if there were lower rates. As far as the goods and services tax gap is concerned, I have heard that there have been such simulations from employers, but I think it's really too early to talk about it at this point. These are not estimates of the Ministry of Finance. I know that such data is functioning in public space, but I would like to point out that just a few years ago this gap was about 10 percentage points higher than the average in the European Union countries. Now it's significantly lower. I think that we will be able to talk about the results of this type of research, about such really hard data, not earlier than mid 2021. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u209	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u210	Minister, I will just complete this information on the VAT gap. I'm not talking about the position of entrepreneurs. It was the institutions of the European Union that made such a simulation on the basis of the accounts of the finance ministers of all countries. This isn't a national simulation... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: I understand.]] ...only a summary from the European Union, drawn up on the basis of the data that the Union has received from all finance ministers. That's why I wanted to get confirmation. Well, the future will show you how these predictions fit into reality. Minister, and now, if that's 79 billion... Sorry, 109 billion... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Yes, 109.]] ...is the planned deficit. This includes these investment funds. Well, it's a good thing there's so many, though there could be more if we're talking about an investment programme. Tell me if you have such a forecast in the Ministry of Finance in what years we will pay it back, taking into account 2020 and 2021. Well, at the end of 2021, if this data is up to date, it's going to be 1.5 trillion in public debt. The deficit planned for 2021 is probably 79 billion, so it's easy to calculate that it's going to be almost 200 billion over the last two years. Is there a plan when it comes to financial functioning? In what period is this to be repaid?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u211	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u212	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's the plan, by all means. Yesterday it was adopted by the Council of Ministers and, together with the draft budget law for 2021, it will be held by the Sejm and the Senate. It is a public sovereign debt management strategy, which shows how we will achieve this relationship below certain thresholds, a shrinking and improving relationship. Thank you. [[Mrs. Marshal, one last question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u213	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u214	Minister, last question: do you not think that the Polish Parliament should first look at the forecast of debt management, taking into account estimates for 2021, or actually an approximate result and estimates for 2021, that is, how we intend to manage debt as Poland And only then do these laws that increase expenditure in particular departments, tasks, projects and projects?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u215	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u216	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! These dates will coincide, as the public debt management strategy will officially go to the Sejm tomorrow. And these solutions that we've presented today, they've been... And their debt, if incurred, is included in this document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u217	Thank you very much. [[Minister...]] Another question? [[Voice from the O.R.: It was supposed to be the last one.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u218	I know, but I didn't ask that they wouldn't coincide. After all, I believe in the Minister and I know that they will coincide. That's not what I asked. The last question: do you not think that it would be better for our deliberations, knowledge, decisions taken both in the Seym and in the Senate if it were so that we knew in parallel or earlier what was involved in the estimations, debt and debt management of this debt? And that's expenses. And not the expenses first, and then the numbers. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuza: Once again...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u219	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u220	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out that the draft budget law is already after first reading in the Sejm and that these solutions are also included there. In the explanatory memorandum are the references may not be as complete as in the debt management strategy, but they are. And I think you can take information and tie these things together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u221	Thank you. Senator Halina Poor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u222	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'd like to ask you about I'm just gonna take a look at the article. 10d. The entry shall be added: during the duration of the epidemic or epidemic state, and within 3 months of their revocation. I'd like to ask you why it's written like this. Because I understand that there is a state of emergency, an emergency, an epidemic or an even worse situation, and then we really have to apply all the forces and measures. But why this idea that three months after the end of this state, these rules should apply if they are to safeguard the common good and the functioning of the state, the companies, all during the epidemic period because of the COVID-19 virus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u223	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u224	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As I have already said, these are records similar to those which functioned and which were temporal in nature. In fact, it has now been decided that the exact same solutions apply again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u225	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Joanna Sekuła. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u226	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I have a question about the Self-Government Road Fund and art. 11. The changes, which have been identified as episodes, adapting, transitional and final, are talking about a certain transfer of quotas, which is very significant, for 2020. Tell me, is the scope of the task established yet? Have the local authorities reported the number of actions they want to take this year, that this amount of PLN 5.4 billion is adequate? And I would very much ask you to explain what lies under the concept of movements in the financial plan, which are carried out despite failure to comply with the criteria of the Public Finance Act. Is it that these records will not have to be consulted with the Minister of Finance and the Parliamentary Commission, or is there any other reason? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u227	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u228	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Self-governments continue to report a shortage of resources, especially during the pandemic period. We have such voices from local governments that we lack funds mainly for investments. One solution was the Government Local Investment Fund, where 6 billion were spent on an additional 6 billion will continue to be recruited by tomorrow. With regard to the Self-Government Road Fund, the final beneficiary will be local government units. As regards the additional amount, the amount is increased by 3.8 billion in 2020, of which 1 billion 100 million is a transfer from the amount to 2021, while 2.7 billion is necessary and the Ministry of Infrastructure has requested such an increase as it has available data And we agreed with our colleagues at the Ministry of Infrastructure That assumes increased demand of local government units for tasks from the Local Roads Fund. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] About... there was one more question. Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal. On the issues of non-compliance with the Public Finance Act. Such provisions already in the laws, in the so-called. Shields, they're functioning. The main point is that funding can be increased over the course of the year, simply increasing subsidies due to these very statutory provisions. And this shift is also one of those elements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u229	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u230	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I have a question: have you considered the possibility of introducing amendments concerning the elimination of the negative effects of the provisions of the covid law relating to the reduction of social security benefits in the case of sickness and maternity, including maternity benefits, in view of the introduction of less favourable employment conditions than those resulting from the basis for establishing an employment relationship? By resolution of 11 September 2020, the Senate introduced a draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, but unfortunately the amendments which were introduced by the Sejm are in the opinion of mothers, women, in particular, less favourable than those proposed by the Senate. The question is, have you considered, or are you even considering changes to the law regarding the inclusion of women on maternity leave? That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u231	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u232	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! That's the way it's gonna be. Such an amendment was included in the legislation that we are discussing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u233	That's it? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Yes, sir.]] Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Thank you.]] Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask Senator Krzysztof Mroz to speak. He volunteered for discussion. [[Voices in the O.R.: He's running.]] He's running.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u234	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of this bill, I have two thoughts. It's a first. Secondly, I would like to make three amendments. I have forwarded the appropriate amendments to the Secretary. These amendments generally concern transport and benefit carriers. As regards the discussion on this bill, I would like to draw attention to two elements in the context of Mr Kleina's statement. The first element is to surprise President Klein or question the so-called. non-extinguishable expenditure is about why these non-expension expenditures are in such a large amount, and about this period extended until November next year. Of course, this involves, as indicated in the law's name, the covid situation. Let us remember that for a period of between 3 and 5 months in various areas we had practically excluded the economy. Many representatives of the state administration, but also the local government, were simply not able to carry out these investments. To what Mr Kleina also spoke about, we have launched a very, very many measures. In this year's investment budget. When we consider this, when we adopt it, we will see that it is completely impossible to implement it by the end of the year. Thus, the possible blocking of this law or wondering that we in this law allow the extension of the implementation of the investment and the settlement of the project by next year, given that the number of these funds will go to local governments, as has already been mentioned here... First of all, we offer the opportunity for these investments to be realised. These provisions on non-extinguishing expenditure are very important, not only for government administration, but above all for local government. After all, we are constantly adding money to local governments and doing it for investments, not for current expenses, but for investment expenses. This is different in scope, because some of the funds will be able to cover expenditure on investments already made, some only for future investments, own contributions, etc., etc., in various projects it looks different. But at the moment We need to be very strong on investment. There is such an old rule that if there is any deconciliation in the economy, the state stimulates the development of the economy through public investment. And we treat these public investments widely, these are not only government investments, but also local ones. That's one thing. And the second point, also very important, very important, namely what Mr Klein said, and what I would like to repeat very, very strongly at the Senate meeting, because I spoke about this at the committee meeting, is VAT. We do not increase VAT, we extend the operation of increased VAT, which was adopted by the government of Donald Tusk. Why are we doing this? Because we have the budgetary situation we have. We thought it was better today that 9.9 billion PLN, because it's about that amount, put it into the economy, put it into investment. That's why it's a decision. Besides, there is also a mechanism in this law regarding when we return to reduced VAT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u235	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u236	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Both myself and the other senators have recently received hundreds of e-mails asking for amendments to the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Second anti-crisis shield. Art. 15g of this law enabled employers who, due to the outbreak of Coronavirus, had recorded a statutory decrease in economic turnover, reduced working time and wages received from workers. Entrepreneurs also applied this mechanism to pregnant workers, Senator Tyszkiewicz spoke about it. Women who have had a child during the COVID-19 pandemic and have started taking maternity leave receive much lower than the expected incapacity benefit. This was because the amount of their allowance was not determined on the basis of an average of 12 months' wages, including premiums and commissions, but on the basis of the earnings obtained under reduced working time. As the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights points out, for some people the basis for payment of the benefit may be even lower by several thousand. The same problem has to do with the benefits of sickness or caring. On 11 September 2020, the Senate adopted a resolution on the submission to the Sejm of a draft law amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19 and other communicable diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. It includes amendments requested by workers and workers injured as a result of the lack of clarification of the so-called provisions. Second anti-crisis shield. Unfortunately, on 17 September 2020, the Sejm voted on its own amendments, which the Minister spoke about, which, in the assessment of these workers and those workers, are not more favourable, on the contrary, are worse. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, it is very sad that young mothers in the most beautiful moment of their lives, instead of enjoying every moment spent with a newborn baby, must fight for their money. That is why I believe it is our duty to re-apply the Senate amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u237	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u238	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! I would like to say a few things that we talked about during the committee meeting, which was signaled in part by Senator Klein, but also about what concerns the general construction. We are not in favour of reducing investment expenditure in Poland. I think it's the opposite: the more money we have for investment, the more support we have. We are not opposed to supporting Polish entrepreneurs through programmes and projects, but we are in favour of doing so legally, within the framework of the law and within the framework of correct legislation. I am far from the theory one of the Senators of Law and Justice has just said: we give a chance, so we add to the investment. I wouldn't want power to give a chance, I would want power to create mechanisms, and governments could use these mechanisms. Of course, we can create incentives, inspiring mechanisms, but we can't do that by giving power a chance to add money. We put money in these covid bills every now and then... Where are we putting it? Well, we add it up like this... This is what I asked the Minister, Ladies and gentlemen: respect for the size of the debt of the Republic is 1.5 trillion in absolute figures. Of course, it can be applied to GDP, it can be shown how it is to it, various manipulations can be done. In absolute figures, over 5 years the debt will increase, as it shows respect, by PLN 600 billion. Five years, 600 billion zlotys. Let me remind you that the government of Tusk, of which Senator Frost, as soon as he wakes up or appears at the committee meeting, says, starting with Tusk, it was so... I'm gonna show them how Tusk was, one piece of course. So a pretty good result, 600 billion will have to be repaid in Poland in the years to come and in the generations to come. That's why I've been asking so much about it on the committee, and here, Minister. I know it was difficult for you to answer that question, despite my best efforts. You know very well... Let's leave the budget behind. If you want to make an expense in your family, buy something, give it to your daughter, your son, someone else, you give it to them first, and then you count, do you count what it's gonna cost first, and then you give it to them? And you guys are... I'm not saying that the Minister, because I have a lot of sentiment for the Minister, but in general, the government today does this: it adds, as the senator said, a chance to cost future generations. Okay, maybe you have to, maybe it's the only way out, but I'm saying it's probably one of the exits, but you just have to show it honestly: we take this much and that's it, that's the deficit... I know it's gonna end up out there, but it's not that way. If we are talking about investments, increasing funds relating to road infrastructure, rail infrastructure, then Minister, we are in favour. The more money you manage for those funds, the better it is for Poland, for the citizens. It's just that once again, the only thing that's being proposed is to increase and extend the unexploded by the end of November. Well, that's not how you run things. You just have to start ruling on a macro scale, as if you were running a family where you want to invest, spend, manage money, manage debt, and so on. A family that has no head, no perspective, doesn't know how to pay for it, because today we're going to spend, and tomorrow we've got it wrong, it ends badly, I assure you, Minister. As for the VAT that Senator Frost and Senator Kleina were talking about, as a committee, we want VAT to be 22%. and 8%. As he called it, whether it's new or extended, it seems true that in 2015 there was an end to the period for which the VAT was set at 23%. and 8% , and the current authority extends, sets a rate of 23% and 8%. And one of the chief election slogans, because my speech must also be made in this political part of the Law and Justice what was it? Dear voters, if we win, the first thing we do is lower VAT. [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] That's the other one. [[Voice from the room: No...]] Which one do you want, third or fifth? Therefore, I would like to say this: the program is good, but for the election period, as you can see. Why, Minister, as far as the committee is concerned, have we made so many amendments and voted on so many changes? Without questioning certain things that are good... But please note that this law contains all kinds of tasks to be carried out, from the tasks of the Soviet Council to the billion-dollar expenses of the Minister of Defence or billions of investment in roads. Well, again, the password of COVID and we're doing a law on women who are pregnant and will give birth, the purchase of tanks, the production of big airplanes or God knows what else. Well, there are so many laws here that Senator Klein was talking about, and 18 laws have been changed. Why would you do that? After all, you can change the field after the field. And the password is, 'cause it's the right thing to do in covida. If you wanted to make the law the way you make it, you had to put in a state of emergency and then the procedure would be completely different and simplified. And you are introducing an extraordinary state by a circumstantial path, saying that there is no extraordinary state, while such creation of law is a manifestation of such an extraordinary state. And that is why bringing into the bill all the things that Members have proposed without first reading, as you briefly wrote and said, the legislator, is not in line with the art of legislation. Well, it's just not the right thing to do, it's not the right thing to do. As for all these covid acts we said: ah, well, it is necessary, well, we will bite our teeth and we will vote here I look at Senator Kochan and we will vote again. But one day that time has to stop, because that's not the right to create. Create the law in accordance with the principles of correct legislation, in accordance with the Constitution, and you will have our support, because to a budget that increases investment, does all the good things, such support must be given. The expenditure of 2021 is now written down, not in the around budget law in 2020, but in the around-the-counter law, so now there is a around-vid law, next it will be around the budget, then there will be a budget, or two budgets in one, etc. Why would you do that? Figure out a straight path, sit down, consult, and if you don't know how to do it, invite some of our experts, invite us, maybe we can come up with something together. And you're the easiest way: unexploded spending is until March, so we're gonna do it by November, we're gonna increase it, then we're gonna figure out how to spend it, okay, maybe it's gonna work somehow. And one more topic, namely the issue of supervisory boards. Minister, under what the chairman said at the committee meeting and here, I personally sign myself. We are in favour of the representatives of the Minister of Finance in the Treasury companies. Let the department minister have those things that concern the merits of the business, but from what is important in terms of finance, he should be a representative of the Ministry of Finance. But do not regulate it in laws, sit down and write down: a representative of the Treasury Ministry is according to certain principles, etc. I understand that the Ministry of Finance has no trust, so here, we write into this law the issues of creating supervisory boards in companies that are included in the law. Minister, last but not least, it is a very important issue, which is support for entrepreneurs. Again, we have to say: no fantastic, every project that entrepreneurs put together should be supported. This is the only thing that needs to be done neatly so that there is no such doubt as in the case of all kinds of activities of the Ministry of Health. That's all we're saying. If we read the opinion submitted by our legislator, Ladies and Gentlemen... The Minister may not... [[Do you need a name?]] Legislator doesn't. [[Bleach.]] Oh, now. And now we're talking about this project... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, 10 minutes.]] I'm just gonna read these two sentences, Mrs. Marshal, and I'm almost done, of course. I watch my time all the time. I'm just gonna read it. First of all, this amendment was tabled at second reading, which is without the first reading. This is the first case. Well, the government didn't come up with it, the MPs fantastically invented it, put it together. [[It's nothing.]] Okay, here we go. They put it together, and now they do. The legislator wonders what led the legislator, that he decided to introduce such regulations, blanking, contradictions with the principle of legalism resulting from the principles of decent legislation, i.e. except that the authorities are obliged to act on the basis and within the limits of the law. The added provision of such limits does not designate or designate them enigmatically, etc., etc. So here's the deal: we have the money, these things are enigmatic, we'll see who puts what together and we'll see who we take... Therefore, Minister, although we support the general idea of increasing investment expenditure, we are protesting, and hence our lack of support for many of the issues that have been introduced into the law in breach of the principles of correct legislation, illegal. We encourage you to make an effort to prepare good laws related to these departments we are talking about and which are included in this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u239	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Hamerski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u240	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to make an amendment to the bill before you, and this amendment is: in Article. 15zs1 1, after the word "77." 39.The following words shall be added: '79. 11. I'm just gonna figure out what's going on. The aim of this amendment is primarily to create the possibility for tourist agents to apply for parking, hence this code 79. 11.A. I will allow the full justification to be submitted with the letter to the secretary's senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u241	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u242	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a statement here, although this is not the place to make a statement, or actually remind the High House that no further, as at the last Senate meeting... [[Talking in the O.R.]] If the marshal wanted to... I'm so sorry. It's hard for me to get my thoughts together. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please don't disturb me, please.]] Not further, as at the last Senate meeting, under the appropriate legislative procedure, under Article. 69, we have submitted a proposal for a new law on mums on maternity leave, for people on sick leave, pensions, etc., etc., which could not have been harmed by the government's implementation of the COVID rules and the reduction of their working or employers' salary. We have ensured that we have on maternity leave the amount of benefits will be calculated on the basis of a salary that has not been reduced in relation to COVID. This bill was supported by the government, and today we have received in the next covid act, contrary to what the government has provided us with, new solutions, much worse than those which the Senate in mode 69, taking into account the correctness of the legislation, sent to the Sejm. What happened in two weeks that you forgot the rules of fair play, and above all the rules of really fair settlement with those who do not deserve reduced benefits in connection with COVID? You really need a lot of... I'm not gonna say what. [[Bad will.]] You must have a lot of bad will. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. To change your mind in two weeks and double the same case. Legislators told us: the amount of benefits cannot be dealt with when we talk about tourism. That was the reason why we skipped benefits and sent a separate bill to the Sejm. It's not fair, Minister, just dishonest. I want to give it to you with all my power. We have, today, governments are taking away your maternity benefits. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u243	Thank you very much, Senator. There's no more votes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: No.]] As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. We proceed with the review of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations. The text of the bill... [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I have your peace, please? The text of the Act is contained in print No 212 and the Commission's reports In prints No 212 A and 212 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u244	Thank you very much, Marshal. It doesn't happen very often... My senior senators' colleagues will ask if it ever happened that the same bill would be prosecuted at the same time in the Seym and the Senate. In view of the fact that the law, the originators and applicants of which were Mrs Krzywonos and Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, and the law which the applicant in the Senate was speaking to the State, coincided in time, and concerns one thing, namely that children who were raised in foster families should be able to inherit after their surrogate parents as they were after biological parents, i.e. without tax... The government has agreed to this solution. We have positive opinions from the ombudsman and all institutions and organisations working for children. That's a very good solution. Before the Senate considered the bill in its mode, we received a bill from the Sejm. During the proceedings of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, we adopted the proposal without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u245	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Paweł Arndt, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u246	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Senate! The Committee on Budget and Public Finance passed yesterday a law amending the law on inheritance tax and donations. The bill didn't give rise to much discussion. During the committee's work, it was recalled that Senator Magdalena Kochan mentioned that the Senate had prepared a similar bill to what had come to us from the Sejm. During the work in the Committee on Budget and Finance, the discussion was actually about one issue, namely the difference in the text of the draft law which the Members submitted and the law which was finally adopted by the Sejm. The answer to this question was that the project, which went to the Senate, is wider in nature, as inheritance tax and donations are exempt not only from persons who were in the foster family or in the family home of the child, but also from those who ran the institutions. This solution is more favourable, so the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance welcomes this response. As in the case of the committee on which Senator Magdalena Kochan spoke, no amendments were tabled in the budget and finance committee, and on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I propose that the bill be adopted.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u247	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. The bill was introduced by Members. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska has been authorised to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. There is no Member. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Sebastian Skuza like to speak on the bill presented? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u248	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Parliamentary project, the Act amending the Act on inheritance tax and donations provides for changes aimed at exempting from inheritance tax and donations also persons from foster families and covered by foster care, i.e. the circle of beneficiaries is extended. The financial impact doesn't seem to me to be significant to the local government units... The government is positively assessing the bill because of its purpose and the recipients of such an exemption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u249	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: No one signed up for the discussion.]] We'll wait a little longer. None of you have signed up. For the record, Senators Aleksander Swed, Mariusz Gromko and Mieczysław Golba made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. [[No vote, Mrs. Marshal? No corrections...]] About the bill? [[Voice from the room: Well, in full...]] Do I have to take a break? [[Yeah, technical.]] I shall order a five-minute technical break before proceeding with item 10 of the agenda. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, for technical reasons, I manage the break until 7 p.m. Then we will consider the next item on the agenda. [[Adjournment from 18 minutes 51 to 19 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u250	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Foreigners Act and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 213 and the committee report In print No 213A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present a report to the Joint Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on the Law of 17 September 2020 amending the Law on Foreigners and certain other laws. The joint committees at the meeting on 28 September jointly examined the government bill amending the Foreigners Act and certain other laws and amended it. Commissions unanimously 17 senators were in favour, there were no votes against and no abstentions They recommend that the High House adopt this proposal together with the amendments. I would like to make a few specific comments on the amendments. The aim of the Act is to ensure the application of Regulation No 810/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 July 2009 establishing the Community Visa Code, the implementation of Objective 5 of the Action Plan preparing the Republic of Poland for accession to the visa-free travel programme with the United States, and to ensure that the foreigner enters our country with adequate medical insurance. During the meeting, two groups of amendments were adopted by the joint committees. The first group consists of legislative amendments which result from an analysis by the Legislative Office of the Senate. These amendments were approved by the government and adopted by the joint committees unanimously. The second group is the amendments resulting from the fact that the Legal Office of the Senate has expressed reservations on compatibility with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in 2 areas. The first is the non-compliance of Article. 6 and In so far as this article is concerned, Article.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 12 Law of Art. Article 118 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 119 (1) (b) and (c) Therefore, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz tabled an amendment, proposed by the Legislative Bureau, deleting the article. 6 and part of the content of the article. 12 relating to this article. The second area is the non-compliance of Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 Article 2 24 and Article 24 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the In detail: the issue concerns workers who are so-called. immigration officials, who are not members of the civil service corps, for which the law introduces an obligation to consult the National Criminal Register within 6 months of the entry into force of the law. If, in this procedure, the employee is informed of the conviction of the worker by a final judgment for a intentional offence or a deliberate tax offence, the worker will be transferred to another post of employment or his employment relationship will be terminated. This provision does not contain criteria giving rise to a choice between workers who will be transferred to another post and workers whose employment relationship will be terminated. Therefore, Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka notified the amendment proposed by the Legislative Office of the Senate Office to delete part of the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2. Both amendments were adopted by the joint committees by a majority. In conclusion, I recommend that the law be adopted together with the amendments adopted by the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u252	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, Mr Bartosz Grodecki. Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Yes, I would love to, if I may, Mr. Marshal.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u253	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, senators! I would like to refer briefly only to those amendments which were tabled yesterday during the work of the committee, because, as a rule, the draft amendment of the Law on Foreigners neither in the Seym nor in the Senate raised no doubt in principle. Therefore, for the sake of clarification, I would like to briefly present the position of the government. As far as the amendment, which is concerned with the proper provision of development aid, including humanitarian aid, is concerned, the Members who tabled this amendment at second reading, were concerned with the possibility of responding more effectively and more quickly to the situation in which we are currently in. We had a COVID-19 and was sent from the country to help, for example, the Balkans. We have a situation in Belarus. Thus, these amendments, which were made at second reading and were, I would like to stress this very strongly here, unanimously adopted during the work of the Committee on Home Affairs and Administration, during the work of the committee, did not raise any doubts. Despite the fact that they actually go slightly beyond the scope of regulation, the law. As for this amendment tabled by you by the marshal, I would just like to stress here that the head of office has the opportunity to terminate the employment relationship with an employee who does not comply with the criterion set out in the Act, i.e. it appears in the National Criminal Register. The first thing the head of office should do is find a job that clearly does not require such certification. So it is a possibility, not a mandatory duty of the head of office, which is worth paying attention to. That's all, actually. Therefore, as a government party, we want this law to be adopted in the form in which it was assessed during the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs, during the work of the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u254	Thank you very much, Minister. Wait a minute, please, because the senators are now allowed to report... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Ah, sorry.]] ...one minute of questioning to the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Then thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. I'm just saying that Senator Aleksander Swed has submitted his speech to the minutes. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 208 and the Commission's report In the letters No 208 A, 208 B and 208 C. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to present the report of the Environment Committee, the report of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the report of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u255	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo. I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on the Environment on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 17 September 2020 amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and certain other laws. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. Following the review of the Act at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment on 24 September 2020, the committee asks: The High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. The basic objectives of the Act are in particular... Firstly, the improvement of the pilot instrument for thermomodernisation which has been in operation since February 2019, including the exchange of non-organic heat sources for single-family energy poor people's buildings, hereinafter referred to as "Stop smog'. Secondly, the introduction of legal instruments to enable measures to be taken to diagnose low emission sources, which provide for the start of the collection of uniform and consistent country-wide data on buildings and their sources of emissions, which are a key element in the planning of remedial actions. In order to diagnose and identify sources of emissions from buildings, the Act provides for the creation and launch of a central register of building emissions, hereinafter referred to as CEEA. The third objective is to improve the functioning of the Government's priority programme. The proposed amendment concerning the operation of the scheme "Stop smog', aimed at adapting the rules for participation in and implementation of the programme to the current conditions, including increasing the attractiveness of the scheme for municipalities, provides in particular for a reduction in the minimum number of single-family buildings allowing application to the scheme from 2% to 1% or 20 buildings and a one-off abolition of this limit where the municipality has previously concluded at least one such agreement. The second very important change is the reduction from 50% to 30% of the required reduction in heating demand, calculated in total for all low-carbon projects carried out by the municipality under a single agreement. Further: an extension from 3 to 4 years of implementation of the agreement and what the local authorities also pointed out, i.e. a reduction from 10 years to 5 years after the termination of the agreement for commitments relating to the beneficiary's obligation to return the relevant part of the value of the project in the case of the sale of the building. Further: extending the scope of the low-carbon project by connecting the building to the electricity grid, modernising the existing district heating, gas or electricity connection, or providing the building with access to energy from the RES installation with the decommissioning of a source that does not meet the low-carbon standards. Further: allowing the possibility of implementing low-carbon projects also buildings in the housing resources of the municipality. The catalogue of eligible costs in this programme has also been expanded very seriously, among others. about costs: ensuring access to energy from RES and heat pumps, including, inter alia, on the basis of equipment owned by the municipality; installation of electricity-powered heat sources; service and maintenance during maintenance of low-carbon projects; investor supervision. There are also some very important changes here. A change in the way in which the income of the applicant for the low-carbon project is calculated is made, the shift from gross to net and the shift from 3 months to 1 year of the period from which the income is calculated. And another very important change: enabling metropolitan, inter-state and county associations to apply to the programme on behalf of and for the benefit of several municipalities; and abolishing the obligation to develop low-carbon municipal programmes was a duty; now this law abolishes this obligation. The next group of provisions is related to the envisaged creation and commissioning of this central building issue register. All data and information on the owners and managers of buildings and premises, including the name, surname or name of the owner or manager, address of residence or registered office, will be collected in the records. of buildings and premises, including those operated in buildings and premises of heat sources, including power supply from heating and electricity networks. Another important change: a new fund is planned to be created in Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, so-called. The Green Guarantee Fund and the way it works shall be determined. These are the most important changes. In the draft resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland, the Environment Commission did not propose any amendments. The work in the committee was in a good atmosphere, efficient, substantive. The draft law was a government submission, fulfilling all the rules of correct legislation. I encourage those of you senators, ladies and gentlemen who have a small parliamentary period to examine the requirements of the laws put forward by the High House on the example of this law. I gave a similar encouragement from this point on the occasion of a report on the work of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, and this project concerned a revision of the Road Traffic Act. However, it would not hurt to repeat this, especially since not all senators participated in the plenary session. So far, most of the acts in the Senate have been on the initiative of the parliament, most of the Senate has made permanent comments concerning, among others. no public consultation. Such reservations cannot be held against the contested law. Following a comprehensive justification for the law of 43 parties, an assessment of the impact of the regulation, together with a justification, was presented on the duration and summary of the results of the consultation. It is on the basis of the working consultation and meetings with stakeholders in the legislative workshops between March and September 2019 that legislative solutions were proposed for the creation of a central register of building emissions. The consultation took place with representatives of 25 entities, attended by representatives of 3 ministries, the Polish County Association, 4 marshal offices, 13 cities and municipalities, including city guards, several institutes and chimney corporations. As regards the "Stop smog' programme, the scope of the changes was constantly consulted in the context of group and individual meetings with representatives of the municipalities, was assessed by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Self-Government and was also published on the website of the Public Information Bulletin of the Minister for Development and the Governmental Centre for Legislation. In the context of the public consultation, the project was sent to 62 entities. A summary of the comments made in the context of the public consultation was presented and how they were taken into account. There were 41 comments and a summary of the comments submitted in the context of the opinion of the draft law, together with the position of the Minister for Development of these observations, 72 of which some were taken into account and some were explained. The draft law was accompanied by: judgment of the Court (Third Chamber) of 22 February 2018. European Commission v. Rzeczpospolita Polska, Case C-336/16, concerning exceedance of limit values for PM10 concentrations in 35 zones; assessment and report of the Supreme Audit Chamber concerning air protection against pollution of 27 August 2018 signed by Senator Kwiatkowski, then President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, with 280 pages, and among others. petition of the Convention of the Marshals of the Polish Voivodships on the introduction of legislation establishing a nationwide database in which information on sources of combustion of fuels with a capacity of up to 1 MW will be collected. The draft law is annexed to the draft regulation of the Climate Minister on the model application for a low-carbon project, together with the justification and assessment of the impact of the regulation; draft regulation of the Climate Minister on the model statement of own resources and property resources of the person requesting the conclusion of a contract for the implementation of a low-carbon project, including justification and impact assessment; draft regulation of the Minister for Development on the details and information collected in the central registration of buildings, including justification and assessment of the impact of the regulation; draft regulation of the Minister for Development on the manner in which data are entered into the central registration of buildings and draft regulation of the Minister for Development on the type and scope of data made available in the central registration of buildings and on how they are made available, including justification and impact assessment. In total, the document has 574 pages, of which the law itself has only or as many as 47 pages. This does not mean that even the best prepared document cannot have any comments or reservations or make amendments to it in order to achieve even better the objectives of the amendments. The following senators spoke during the discussion. Senator Janusz Błucherz asked, among others. whether the amendments proposed in this Act will result in the "Stop smog' and "Clean air' programmes working better to make use of the planned measures. I would like to remind you that 1 billion 200 million zlotys are foreseen for the "Stop smog" programme and 100 billion zlotys for the "Clean Air" programme. He also asked for information on who the program had reached so far and on the definition of a single-family building, which makes it impossible to use the program in the case of serial buildings, popegeer buildings and some school buildings for teachers. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka asked the question about the amount of funds spent from these programmes and the question whether the Ministry was familiar with the letter of the National Casa addressed, among others. to the Marshal of the Seym and the Marshal of the Senate. Senator Władysław Komarnicki asked me about it. I took it in quotes. What an evil man has eliminated something that has proved to be true. It was about the Kawka programme, which worked very well in Gorzów Wielkopolski and for which 68 million were spent in 2014. He also asked how the local government adopted the bill, because local governments would be burdened with additional tasks without additional resources. Mrs Lenartowicz drew attention to what had previously been raised at the session of the Parliament's committee and in the plenary session of the Sejm. At that time, she did not get satisfactory answers. It's about building a database of building emissions, building a step by step, so that it's building records, not people's records. On the establishment of the database, Ms Dorota Cabańska spoke at the committee meeting, acting as the Chief Inspector for Construction Supervision, which, according to the Minister, will be responsible for coordinating the work. According to the director, this is a very expected tool, and after the result of the piloting it can be assumed that it can be a very effective tool. Deputy Minister Ireneusz Nagroda responded to most of the questions asked and at the same time stressed that the central record of the issue of buildings must be a groundbreaking tool in the pursuit of the Clean Air programme. He also stated that the Ministry was working on the extension of the "Clean Air" and "Stop smog" programmes. For multi-family buildings, because this problem is noticed in the Ministry. Thank you for your attention. It was a report from one committee meeting. I'm gonna cut the next two short. Report on the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. I have the honour to present a report on the meeting of the Climate Committee on the Law adopted by the Sejm on 17 September 2020 amending the Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernisation and Renovation and some other laws. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 25 September 2020, the committee asks: The High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. The Senate, after considering the law adopted by the Sejm at its meeting on 17 September 2020, amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovation and certain other laws, introduces a number of amendments to its text. These amendments were taken over from the legislator by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. The discussion was followed by Gabriel Lenartowicz, who once again raised the issue of the Central Registration of Buildings' Emissions, pointing out that it is very necessary for energy planning, but according to her, the proposal is inconsistent, because the base is powered by a boiler room with a capacity of up to 1 MW and above this value no longer. This was explained during the committee's work. The second group of sources, from 1 MW to 50 MW... will be in second base. Senator Janusz Błucherz asked again about the definition, but extended it to include municipal and social buildings in the city centers. Without this, in his opinion, it will not be possible to achieve the desired results. He pointed out the concerns raised by local government associations regarding the reduction of PIT revenues resulting from the application of the thermomodernisation relief without compensation. On the other hand, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski continued to discuss this problem, stating that if certain regulations are introduced, the loss of income cannot be compensated. He asked how to improve the bill so that the Central Register of Buildings' Emissivity concerns buildings, not people. He noted the date of entry into force of the Act, which was 30 days after the announcement, with the exception of the article. 27g, which shall enter into force on the date of implementation of the technical solutions enabling the declaration to be made using an electronic system serving the Central Register of Buildings as defined in the Communication. He asked the question: what if this message is not announced? After the Minister's response to the raised issues, the discussion started again and they spoke in turn... Senator Joanna Sekuła asked, among others. whether there are discussions with building managers in relation to the information base being prepared. Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka asked, for example. about how an 80-year-old woman will be able to measure the thickness of wall warming or ceiling of buildings and how not to violate the home mire by collecting such detailed data. Senator Janusz Pęcherz pointed out the need to coordinate the collection of these data in the records and asked whether this would be possible on the basis of the authorized persons indicated here, i.e. Firemen, city guards, construction surveillance or environmental inspectors. The final responses of the Ministry's representative, which we received at the committee meeting, showed that the co-ordinator was to be created by the system itself, which will integrate this data and will have a topographical map built in. And then it will be known which buildings are e.g. after the review, and each chimney sweep after logging in will have access to the necessary data. It was also found that the R &amp; D project carried out, which lasted a year and a half, in which the project was created the basis for the creation of the Central Register of Building Emissions, guarantees the success of this project. Thank you for your attention. And a third committee report. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure on the Law adopted by the Sejm. I have just presented here the reports of the meetings of the 2 committees on this law. The Senate Marshal has directed, as I have already introduced... And after considering the law at the meeting of the 2 Joint Committees on 28 September 2020, committees shall bring: the High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution. None of the joint senators' committees present at the meeting took over the proposals for amendments tabled by the Polish Senate's Legislative Office, nor did anybody propose such amendments on their behalf. The bill was voted out by 16 votes in favour. No amendments, but present at the committee meeting the chairman of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Mr Zygmunt Frankiewicz said yes: everyone is in favour, but the discussion shows that this product is not perfect. The work in the joint committees was in a good atmosphere. Mr Adam Chetwertyński, Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate, Przemysław Hofman, Director of the Department in the Ministry of Development, Ms Dorota Cabańska, acting as Chief Inspector of Construction Supervision, and representatives of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and representatives of the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland participated in the meeting of the committee. The discussion took place, among others. Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, who, as an introduction, stated that most of the amendments that were included in this bill were expected by the local government and reported earlier when the first law was being drawn up. These are not all the amendments that were tabled at the time, but their inclusion significantly improves this law. Problem According to Senator Frankiewicz It is the creation of the Central Register of Building Issues, because there are additional tasks for self-governments without financial support, and at the same time the question arises as to whether these bases are not duplicated. The rest of the amendments, according to the senator, are expected and heading in the right direction. Senator Janusz Błucherz again explored the problem of coordinating the entry of data into the system, that is to say, in this central register, and stated that we dedicate this program to the energy poor, so they cannot afford to pay to those who will enter this data. On the other hand, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz stated that the bill is a good example of the fact that it is good to listen to the voices of practitioners at the stage of law-making. In what has now changed in the bill, there are many things that were just reported earlier by local governments, but it took a long time to wait. Therefore, it would be good for this law, which is now being implemented, to succeed much better at the law-making stage, and not to be similar especially with the database, because it is not so that data migration is one click on the screen. There's often a lack of compatibility. This is a huge job for most local governments. And this problem needs to be solved. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka asked what the main target was. Or a reduction in emissions, or helping people who can't handle it. In order to reduce air pollution, the municipality should have an insight into who cannot afford it and who will not enter the programme at all. According to you, the senator lacks such an element, i.e. that the municipality is obliged to separate such a set of residents, but it should be given certain resources for this task. We will achieve this effect when we enter such data. And in order to bring them in, human resources and money will be needed. Continuing the problem, Senator Frankiewicz stated that this base consists of 2 parts From the personal part and the building part and wanted confirmation from the Ministry. The poorer communities will not be able to enter data into the system themselves, into the database and this can lead to even greater disparities in local governments. Senator Dunin drew attention to the GDPR, but the explanations were that it was agreed, agreed. Janusz Błucherz: the aim is to improve air quality, and if we want to achieve this goal, it must be government aid. He also pointed out the thermomodernization relief once again, because this relief was also mentioned by Mr Marshal, a representative of the Rural Union of the Republic of Poland. And he drew attention to the very high costs, as he calculated, associated with this base. Which authority will support a specific building and eliminate the embezzlement of public funds? That's where I'm going with what the Ministry's representative said. We must lead to a situation in which it will not be so, that many programs which so far functioned in Poland can be used once again. And that's why we want to enter into the database also the answers to questions about whether I got a thermomodernization relief, whether I got an energy supplement, whether I got an apartment supplement, etc. I'm gonna point it out again. Because it's a bit dug-out that the Ministry doesn't think there's such a threat that it doesn't create this base, because what was done within a year and a half when it comes to piloting indicates that this is feasible. Of course, anything is possible. I know there's a lot to be done, but I need the resources to do it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u256	Thank you very much, Senator, for the very detailed, positive report. But please remain on the speaker, because I think that some issues may still need to be clarified. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u257	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, here is a proposal to create a central register of building emissions, only that this central register of building emissions will be based primarily on the work of local governments and various building managers, possibly the owners of these buildings. In addition, personal data are to be collected. I would like to learn something about this, because at the meeting of our Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs it was stressed that the Office for Personal Data Protection raises reservations about the detail of this data. First of all, I would like to know whether it is really necessary to make such data available to insurers, tax administrations, Home Minister, social assistance centres, etc., etc. That raises a lot of doubts. And that's the first question. And now the other one. Mr Senator has already mentioned that there are these 2 programs, the Clean Air and Stop Smog. Is it that we are creating a Guarantee and Guarantee Fund at the Bank of National Farms, which is supposed to be a supporting fund but only in terms of guarantees and guarantees of loans and loans It won't prolong the phase... Because at the moment, the use is 30%. the planned plan. Well, I'm talking about what's in the national fund right now and in the voivodship funds. Isn't that gonna prolong the process of getting money for thermo-modernization? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u258	Thank you very much. Senator, I think the Ministry's representatives are going to say something about this. Indeed, the issue of the detail of this database was raised in all three committees. I've been working hard too, whether it's all necessary or not, and I'm more and more inclined to believe that not all personal data is needed here. Well, only the data on buildings and their heat sources are necessary in order to be able to reasonably plan the implementation of the "Stop smog" and the "Clean Air." I must say that these programmes are being implemented to a very small extent. I would like to remind you that only 48 million have been spent on the "Stop smog," which is what Senator Komarnicki said about 68 million in Gorzów Wielkopolski itself. It's a small amount. And from this, among other things. the activities of the Ministry are based on these activities. Those changes that are here are designed to facilitate entry into this system. About the base itself I'm the one who's calculating that what's needed to do this... Well, according to the Ministry, the year will take itself to build this basic base, to which the data that will supply it will only be entered. So, really, before we can use it, before the ministry announces that we have a central record of building emissions, it'll be about three years. This money is to be spent, but it would be good if it were spent meaningfully. Well, you can spend the money and then wonder again why we still have the air we have. I think that clean air and stop smog are the 2 programs that local governments are waiting for. Here you have to listen to the pits, and the local government wants these programs. Local government officials themselves asked for a base to help them implement their plans in terms of clean air and the elimination of smog in municipalities. This is actually the way to meet their expectations, but that doesn't mean we're gonna make it happen quickly. The devil is always in the details, and then he may find something wrong again. Well, I think it would be good if, at this stage, we could improve what can still be improved so that we didn't have to change this bill too quickly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u259	Thank you very much. No further questions, so thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you very much.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate, Mr. Ireneusz Zebra. Minister? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin by thanking Senator Janusz Płucherz very much for his detailed report on the work of the Senate committees on the bill. All the more reason to thank the senator for expressing his condolences about the draft, the government proposal. I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the priority programme of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, announced in the exposé of the President of the Council of Ministers, the "Clean Air" programme is regarded as one of the pillars of government policy related to air quality care, also as a tool that serves to improve the energy efficiency of buildings. The government spends as much as PLN 103 billion on clean air over 11 years. The "Stop smog" programme is a programme dedicated to the most energy-efficient municipalities, areas that are dysfunctional for various reasons. A significant fund of PLN 1 billion 200 million has also been allocated to this programme. It must be said that to date, on 25 September this year, over 167 thousand 700 applications have been submitted under the Clean Air programme for the implementation of projects under the Clean Air programme for the total amount of over PLN 3 billion 200 million. So far more than 132 thousand contracts have been signed for the total amount of nearly PLN 2 billion 500 million. Agreements completed... The amounts already paid in connection with the performance of the task, the settlement of the task, is less than PLN 900 million. In addition, as part of the fund, this mechanism was also designed as a mechanism of the "Clean Air' programme, there is a thermomodernisation relief which taxpayers can deduct from the tax base. The information for 2019 is that taxpayers benefited from this allowance for the amount of approx. PLN 3 billion. Since our goal is to create a more effective tool, which would allow for these 11 years, until 2029, because the Clean Air programme was launched in 2018... It is to make this tool more effective, reaching every household, any person who needs to finance the exchange of heating sources, the thermomodernisation of the building, the replacement of window carpentry or the installation of another heat source, such as a heat pump, or after unifying the programmes, the possibility of submitting one application in an electronic system, including the current programme, requesting the financing of the photovoltaic installation on the roof of a single-family building. We have noted that the use of dedicated resources is unsatisfied at the moment. We would really like anyone who has such a need to reach for the money that the government has spent for this purpose. At this point, I would also like to stress the important role of the government's representative for the "Clean Air" programme, Mr Piotr Woźny, who, at the time of his duties, did a really huge, even titanic job. He has built partnerships with social organisations, among others. with Polish Alarm Smogowy, with chimney organizations, chimney associations, with many social and environmental organizations, which aim to care for air quality. These actions are in percentage today because in the drafting of the bill, the law which is submitted to the High House, they participated in the form of consultations, regular consultations and even co-created this draft law by social organisations. I would especially like to thank you for your commitment and very creative contribution to the Polish Alarm Smogowy, also to the chimney associations, as well as to the local authorities. It is the units of the local government, Mr. Marshal, the High Izbo, in many cases they are the authors of the postulates which are reflected in the text of the bill. The project was further consulted with the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Self-Government, gaining full acceptance of solutions that affect or imply the activity of local self-government units. Here Senator Janusz Płecherz has detailed the provisions of the Act, and I would not like to repeat this, but I will present two points that raised some questions, perhaps caused some confusion from some of the honourable states of the senators. First of all, it is a central registration of buildings, which I believe will be an excellent, effective tool to fight for air quality, also a tool that will be provided free of charge to all local government units in Poland. Secondly, it is a question of allegedly imposing obligations on municipalities by this law. The first issue, the central record of the issue of buildings. Well, in a way... I will repeat this, but it is worth this information to sound here in the plenary session of the High Chamber, Senate of the Republic of Poland: the central register of the issue of buildings is fully implemented and financed by the operational fund, the This task has been imposed on the Central Building Supervision Authority and this office will create, collect information, construct data, including the IT system, which as a tool will be available for persons, for institutions listed in the bill or in the law, after its adoption. The municipalities do not receive any additional responsibilities in this respect and do not bear any additional costs. I would like to say that this activity is being taken on by the Central Building Authority through aggregation, by obtaining data drawn from other central records of land, buildings. These records are listed in the act several enumeratively. The potential activity of the municipality results directly from statutory provisions defining the municipalities' own tasks as regards the obligation to inventory the sources of emissions in the municipality, the care of air quality and the preparation of the energy balance of the municipality. These are the community's own tasks, which result from the bill. Here, this law does not impose any new obligations beyond what the municipalities already have in their competence and in their responsibilities. As regards the key issue raised by your senators, both at committee meetings and here Mr Senator, the rapporteur spoke about this. I would like to point out that, in this respect, the draft law has been consulted and has been accepted by the General Data Protection Officer. The information to be collected in this register shall be for the personal part only and only the name, address, e-mail address, if indicated, and the telephone number if indicated. If the latter 2 information is not reported in the register, then only information about the name, surname and address of the person who is the owner of the premises, real estate and the source of the issue related to the housing heating will be provided in this register. Why is it necessary to obtain data on your name and address? Well, ladies and gentlemen, this is a declaration of will, a declaration of will, which must be signed by a person who is a self-owner or a subsidiary holder. . Depending on what kind of property he is entitled to, real estate And no one but this person can actually make such a statement. If someone doesn't make a statement like that, we're gonna have a loophole of some kind. I would like to assure you here, your Senators, the High House, that this is a tool that will help everyone, especially local government units, but also the central institutions of the state in an effective... I do not want to use the word "fight," but in carrying out effective actions, in implementing air protection policies, in improving air quality. As the senators know, unfortunately Poland does not have the best air quality. This is mainly due to low emissions from residential heating, but also to low emissions from transport. Transport is not the bill, so we focus on housing heating. And we would like to limit in a short time, and as a result of these actions Eliminate in buildings, in housing heating based on burning solid fuels, mainly hard coal. Therefore, these actions are to be implemented with great intensity, with the launch of the maximum tools that will serve this purpose. Here one of the questions was about what for example. Minister of Home Affairs and Administration these data, for which the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration access. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I would not like to enter such a polemic discourse at political level. 'Cause he's out there somewhere in context... But it is absolutely not about any issue of surveillance, which is also alleged somewhere in discussions at committee level. The Minister of Home Affairs and Administration is also the State Fire Department, which performs its sacrificial service to residents of all cities and villages, protecting us from various threats arising, among others. from fires. And, as we know, the malfunctioning heating systems, the ventilation associated with coal-based heating have unfortunately led to many tragedies. Therefore, this tool is extremely needed, also in terms of access to services that serve Polish citizens, Polish society. With regard to social assistance centres, it is the social assistance centres, in line with the amendment that we have made, that law, the Clean Air programme... In the previous amendment... It is the social assistance centres that will issue a certificate of their financial situation to those underprivileged, that they are customers of social assistance centres, as regards the possibility to benefit under preferential conditions from the Clean Air programme. This is about households where family members receive income of PLN 1 thousand 400 per capita, per person in the family, or PLN 1 thousand 960 in single-member economies, on a monthly basis. By the way, the possible grant was increased to a maximum of 37 thousand PLN. Thus, social assistance centres play an important role in the operation of the Clean Air programme. By the way, it is worth mentioning that the municipalities have been given the opportunity to obtain compensation for issuing each certificate of PLN 100 for the recipient of the "Clean Air' scheme, which is a customer of the social assistance centre. There was also a reference to the medium combustion source base, which has a capacity of 1.50 MW. This base has already been completed by the National Emission Balancing and Management Centre, in short the KOBIZE, and this base is functioning. At the moment, our task is to create the Central Register of Buildings' Issue as a key tool. As for the deadline, I would like to assure the honourable senators that we assume that the base will be launched within a year, I think by November, next December. At the beginning of the new heating season in 2021, the base will be ready as a tool for all participants in this system. Maybe one more sentence on the Green Guarantee Fund. Questions were raised regarding the possibility of extending this system to cooperative savings and credit banks. I would like to say that we are not creating any breach in the financial system which currently operates in Poland. This is merely the creation of a guarantee and guarantee fund. We do not create the possibility to transfer grants through banks or financing institutions, credit institutions, nor do we create a system of interest payments for loans. This guarantee and guarantee fund will only be a security for banks that already come forward and want to have in their portfolio, also cheaper products, lower interest rates in offering to their customers, in order to ensure that those who have credit capacity, but do not have adequate collateral for the credit... so that this Environmental Guarantee Fund can provide such collateral. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, I would like to conclude by thanking you very much for your meaningful, constructive work at the meetings of the High Chamber's committee at the meetings of the various committees. I am also very obliged to the senators because there were criticisms, but ultimately the bill was adopted in committee by a majority, only a few senators abstained; I attended the meeting of the Environment Committee. I believe that the senators, after this information, which you have so meticulously presented to the rapporteur, know that this law has been very constructive, very honest, and that I will use this term socially consulted at every level and to a very wide extent. Therefore, this law is expected by local government units, by state institutions, to effectively implement the Clean Air programme. Once again, this is a priority programme, which should lead to a decisive improvement in air in the next decade, which we have already achieved in some sense, because from 2015 to 2019, the number of 44 zones that have been identified as zones with PM10 emissions exceeding emissions has been reduced to 22. This is the data at the end of 2019. We estimate that today there are about 10 zones with overruns. I hope that just the adoption of this law, the implementation of the "Clean Air" programme will allow us to completely eliminate these zones from overruns. I kindly ask the High House to adopt the bill without amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u261	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u262	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for the additional information that has been provided today. Minister, the good intentions of hell are paved. If you say that the government's priority is to act on clean air... I remember Mr Morawiecki's statement in 2018 when this program was created. The Prime Minister then announced that PLN 103 billion would be allocated for this purpose and said that this is an absolutely priority action, as you have just emphasised. You said today that you spent 900,000 in real life over the last two years of this program, right? [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Climate Ireneus Gains: Million.]] 900 million. I'm sorry. Minister, what's the priority? How many years are you going to do this? 1 billion for 2 years. Is this gonna take 200 years? Congratulations, Minister. If this is a priority, congratulations on your approach: 200 years. Thank you for this information, because it was the High Chamber from you that heard that this was the priority of the Government of the Republic of Poland in matters concerning clean air. 200 years. Congratulations, because thanks to you, we learned about some really interesting things. But even if I wasn't too precise in this part and considered only the contracted conclusions... During that time, you've contracted 2 billion 500 million. So how much will it be? It'll take you 100 years to implement this program. And yet the program was announced for 10 years. Minister, 10 years. Yes? You said 11 years today. I won't argue with you for 11 years. That's an average of 10 billion a year. There's nothing to nod about, Minister, hard data. You're not gonna get away with this data. If I were you, I wouldn't be moving this show at all today, because there's really nothing to brag about. My current program, which you have already eliminated, looks even worse. The figures are different, so it's even worse. I'm leaving this program, and I'm only referring to the bill, because there's nothing to discuss about other things. I don't want to criticize the bill, I absolutely don't want to. All I'm going to say is that in the last five years, as far as the state budget is concerned, I stress the state budget, not the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, you have nothing to boast about. I think in 2016, you shut down a thermomodernization fund that was in the state budget. You thought it wasn't worth the money. I don't think he's even back in the budget, I'm saying, 'cause I'm not so sure that I haven't been so up-to-date with these budget lines. In any event, there was not a single zloty, zero, in the State budget, even when it was launched. There was only a national environmental fund, possibly voivodship funds and really EU money, which were at the disposal of the national fund under the priority programmes implemented by these institutions. Minister, I do not share your views on matters relating to the central registration of buildings. I do not question the need to build such records, let it arise, but let it apply to buildings, as it is in its name, not to people. You say it doesn't have anything to do with it. Well, Minister, when you read this bill, it turns out it has something to do with it. You've already mentioned that passage under the title... It was to be precise about your announcements, in the article. In paragraph 27a, paragraph 27a is replaced by the following: 2 in item 3. There's a record that says that there's a telephone number and an e-mail address entered into that register. If you have one, you say. But if he does, you have to bring them in, right? [[Talking in the O.R.]] And if he says... It's not written in the bill, it's written how much it has. Minister, you refer to this document that you present here, not that if you say... Because if he doesn't, then what? Does that mean he's not in the records? These are not complete data. He can't run. If he doesn't tell you and doesn't give you any other information, you won't write it in either? Well, it's not serious, Minister. This is not a serious discussion about a serious document that the government has submitted to the High House. In fact, to be honest, this also applies to other records. You collect information on social assistance benefits or housing allowances for this record. Well, if the owner is changed in the meantime, what? Is that what's staying? You're losing it? What are you doing? What's the point of all this information anyway? Why do you want to know if someone has a tax credit or something? Mr. Marshal took advantage of the housing allowance... Mr. Marshal, this may concern you, too. I'm worried about you. I'd like you to treat it well, only in this dimension. Or, for example, Mr. Marshal. Excuse me, can I point out another senator who has benefited from the thermomodernization bonus? What's the point of all this information? Why would they... Why should they concern the citizen? Let them relate to real estate, Minister, whether or not some money has been spent on the property, and let it be related to the property. Anyway, you're writing down somewhere else that you need an address. But I'm sorry, why? If someone owns 4 properties, Minister, why do you need the address of their residence as soon as the address of the property is needed? There's no way to explain it. You can't explain it, you can twist your head, there's no logical explanation for that approach to the case. I could get angry a lot longer, but I'm gonna leave it because there's no need. I'm glad to hear one more statement from you today about the time the records were set up. Because you said a year. Honey for my heart. Honey, Minister, because I'm sure you'll agree on at least one amendment. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 20... wait, I'm In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 22 of this law is written: the law shall enter into force 30 days after the date of the announcement, except And I'm reading point 1 so I don't read anymore. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. - I'm sorry. 27a, which shall enter into force on the date of implementation of the technical solutions enabling the central registration of buildings as set out in the communication referred to in Article. Point 18 (1). And if it doesn't come out, then what? That's not gonna happen in this part. I can honestly say that this is a type of law writing that is far from legislative principles, very far away. I heard at the committee meeting that there was one exception, but the rule should not be made out of exceptions, Minister. If you said you could do it within a year, I'd suggest that you do it within three years so that this bill can enter into force within 36 months, no later than 36 months, because I think if you don't set boundaries, she'll never, just never come in. I would therefore like to make a few amendments to the Marshal. These amendments concern the deletion from the central registration of buildings of all those areas which concern the citizen. Collect information about real estate, don't collect information about people. Because it is indeed the nature of citizen surveillance. Why? There's nothing to laugh about. You can be monitored like that. I don't know if you own the property, but there's really nothing to laugh about. It's not funny, Minister. A lot of citizens don't laugh at things like that. This is also an example of an approach in a country where you do not have confidence in citizens. If a citizen wishes to obtain a grant, specify the model of the application, including the model of the application, write what he is to confess, and let him confess if the grant is to be received. And don't get any information about whether he's getting an apartment allowance or not, whether he's getting social services or not. And you put that in the central building records? What does that have to do with anything? What's that? No. There are also amendments concerning the time of entry into force of this law. I ask that the entire House, without exception, support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u263	Thank you very much, Senator. Mr. Senator, please comply with the formal requirement and sign these amendments... [[Yes, of course.]] ...because without that amendment, they don't matter. [[I'll sign the Marshal in front of you to make it authentic.]] Good. Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I remember that when in 2017, 2016, later in 2018, as president of NIK I announced various reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber concerning clean air, among the 50 most polluted cities in Europe the largest group were cities from Poland. At the time we talked about the fact that about 400 000 citizens of European Union countries who die prematurely because they are constantly or periodically staying in places where air pollution standards are exceeded, about 46 000 are Poles and Poles who would not have to die if they did not breathe what air they breathed. That is why I am extremely happy with this project. I would like to thank Minister Ireneus Zyska for the fact that this project was created in accordance with the best way to carry out legislative work in dialogue with the social partners. I had the opportunity to cooperate with the Krakow Smog Alert, with smog alarms from individual cities, with environmental organizations, with Global Compact, which is an organization cooperating with the UN, dealing with among others. the issue of contaminated air, and I know how much such a dialogue brought into the work of the institution for which I was responsible. Therefore, I thank you very much for the fact that this project was also created under such circumstances. And while I appreciate the voice of my previous speaker and his experience of working at the Ministry of Environmental Protection, this time I would be very careful to introduce amendments to this project, because it is so that to have a full system of data records that will serve us comprehensively, we are not able to bring it only to the property data. The housing allowance case is an allowance assigned to a particular person and not to real estate. I don't want to... [[That's right, we're throwing it away.]] No, on the contrary, we keep in this system, because we will need this data in the case of such a programme, also as regards this information, which is in the draft law, in the context of previous reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber. In her reports, NIK indicated that the main factor affecting bad air quality in Poland also the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Pęcherz, spoke about this. It's so-called. Low emissions, mostly from the residential and communal sector, where low-quality heating equipment, or solid fuel boilers, is used, and of course, low quality is what is thrown into these boilers. I'll put it here. For this reason, it is crucial to take cumulative measures to identify and diagnose these sources of low emissions, and this corresponds to the draft law submitted by the Senate. In this context, it is necessary to start collecting uniform and consistent country-wide data on buildings and their emission sources, which are a key element in the planning of remedial actions. What I've read now is, contrary to appearances, it's not part of the bill. This is a piece of the report by NIK dated August 27, 2018. I must say that in this respect this law implements exactly the same demands that I had the honour of presenting as President of NIK. In order to diagnose and identify sources of emissions in buildings, it is envisaged to establish and launch a central register of building emissions, including building data and, above all, the heat and combustion sources used in buildings, namely boilers and furnaces. The work on the bill carried out in the Ministry of Development, as I said here, included consultations with various stakeholders and environmental NGOs who have been fighting for clean air in Poland for years. I hope that the Minister's personal involvement in this project will be a contagious example for your colleagues in the government, as I wish for the Minister and myself. Well, I hope that the quality of the legislative proposals that appear here will improve, because not all these proposals are prepared in such a thoughtful way as the bill we are working on. The solutions that have been prepared have received special approval. I myself had the opportunity to talk to representatives of various organisations dealing with air protection issues today. I also attended the conference opening the whole project in April 2019. The adoption of this law is also expected by the local government, because it is the local authorities who come to face this daily air pollution, with exceeded standards, which are a source of exceptional concern for residents, especially in southern Poland. The adoption of this law is supported by local government organisations, among others. by the Convention of the Marshals of the Polish Voivodships, which in speeches addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers has repeatedly requested the creation of such records, i.e. a single database collecting data across the country. Analysis of NIK reports on the control of the operation of public administration both government and local government at various levels In connection with public spending on air quality objectives, it is clear that the problem is the lack of a uniform multi-level strategy for combating air pollution, the lack of coordination between the various agendas and levels of administration, as well as the lack of inventory of relevant data, as well as the lack of exchange of information on the level and causes of air pollution, including between government and local government. In many places support instruments related to the replacement of furnaces and connection to the district heating network are launched. I would like to remind you of the conclusions of the NIK which were directly referring to the introduction of legal provisions which would prevent the reception of a newly built building in a situation where its owner is not planning to connect to the district heating network, of course if it is on the way where the building is put into service. As regards the connection to district heating networks and the installation of alternative energy sources, so far these activities have often been carried out without relying on hard data. Thus, this support was not provided in an efficient manner, which often did not go where it was most needed and was not offered in the form in which it was necessary in the area concerned. Self-governments did not have sufficient knowledge of the needs and scale of the corrective actions needed to be carried out in order to achieve the target air quality standards. According to NIK, this situation has been determined by a number of factors, which, apart from a few exceptions, resulted from both insufficient public participation at all levels of activity. Local, regional and national As well as under-coordination and, consequently, failure to ensure consistency of the actions implemented under the extended structure of the environmental protection system. I don't want to remind you how many institutions were responsible for these cases anymore. I also do not want to remind you of the pace of the programmes that have been implemented in recent years, e.g. by voivodship authorities, and how many more years would it take to investigate these parameters, which are defined, e.g. by the WHO, as appropriate in terms of its non-negative impact on the lives and health of citizens. I have no doubt that this law is a step in the right direction, because there is no effective public spending without sufficient mechanisms and application of uniform standards in the preparation and later in the financing and control of the implementation of air protection programmes by both voivodships and other agendas, including government agendas. For my part, you have the support of this bill. I will ask everyone, all ladies and gentlemen of the senators, that we examine each of the amendments tabled by your president. In this case, I am convinced that the process of drafting this bill really was a process that was deepened in relation to many other legal acts. Please, I recommend that we limit the amendments to those absolutely necessary, because I feel that the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and the amendment of other laws is needed and expected. It is worthwhile to carry out the legislative procedure as efficiently as possible, and the notification of each amendment extends the legislative process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gromko, Godyla and Hibner made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Marshal Morawska-Staneck and Senator Gawłowski. Does a government representative want to respond to the proposals put forward? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u266	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the senators, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski and Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, for their position as one critical and one expressing acceptance. Perhaps it will be easier for me to begin by referring to the position of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, which is the result of his vast knowledge and experience in the field of pollution of the environment, air, and experience resulting from the mission of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, President of the Supreme Chamber of Control. It was not by chance that Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski cited quotations from the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber and also by chance these contents were included in the justification for the bill. From these reports we drew solutions that were defined in the project. Thank you very much for your constructive but kind, substantive response to the changes and the opinion of the Senator. Referring to Senator Stanisław Gawłowski's speech, with great kindness and respect, because of the experience of the Senator's work as Minister of the Environment... I'm sorry to notice... The senator himself used the term "I won't get any more angry" or something like that. I didn't write it down, but it got so stuck. Dear Senator, 900 million are as many as 900 million. There are many households that are already happy that they have been stermomodernized. There are many buildings after changing the source of heating, after changing the window joiner. At the moment they are apartments, single-family buildings with different parameters, with increased energy efficiency, guaranteeing a different quality of life for residents. And the senator's statement at the very beginning that hell is paved with good intentions is inadequate to the enormous effort that has already been put into place both by the government administration and by the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and by the voivodeship funds for environmental protection and water management at thousands, really thousands of meetings and conferences with beneficiaries. Because they were organized in every district, in each district such meetings with interested persons who wanted to benefit from the funds of the Clean Air programme. The fact that we have not been able to pay even more money, but these contracts are already at 2.5 billion and applications are made at close to 3.5 million. Maybe I'm round, but that's pretty much what it looks like. And it shows that we are in a certain process, and in a moment this curve of increasing interest in the programme and participation of potential beneficiaries and building awareness that the average citizen can reach for these measures, improve his existence through a better standard of living, will grow dynamically. Mr. Senator forgot one very important piece of data I told you about. This is paid, or actually used, because deducted from the tax base, a thermomodernization discount of PLN 3 billion. Please also include this in the entire programme of clean air, because it was designed so that also tax issues or certain benefits, tax exemptions related to air protection are included in the budget of the programme of clean air. So it's going to be nearly 4 billion zlotys of money paid. Here's another thing. Mr. Senator said the program was supposedly shut down. My current. I don't know where that came from. I have to correct this, because the senator is an opinion-making person in the Senate plenary room, and can be quoted by national media. I would like to make it clear that my current is now some kind of hit If I can use that word here in the High House Because it is primarily a cause for an investment boom in the PV industry in Poland. Today, in 2020 marked by the crisis caused by the outbreak of Coronavirus, this is probably the only industry that is experiencing such dynamic growth. During the year, 1 GW 200 MW photovoltaic prosumer installations were installed. This is an example without precedent on a European scale in terms of the development of the PV industry. This is definitely the result of a conscious government policy and the result of the operation of the A year ago, 30 August, this program was launched and started at the very beginning. Please check it out because it's written in the program The duration of its operation was set out in the time frame until 18 December 2020. And so it will be. This programme will end its lifetime, its functionality on 18 December 2020. But I inform the Minister of Climate, Mr Michał Kurtyka has already informed the public about this. That work is currently underway on the continuation of this programme. It will continue in 2021, even with some enlargement. But today's too early to talk about it. This is a very good program. Firstly, it prevents emissions of substances into the environment because it eliminates residential heating in the municipal and residential sector from solid fuels, fossil fuels, thanks to the switch to electric heating resulting from photovoltaic panels. Secondly, it creates a whole new energy system and builds a new quality in space related to the building of distributed energy. My current programme has also become, Dear Sirs, a kind of crisis shield for the renewable energy sector in Poland in 2020. Last year no one planned this, the goals were different, but really now this programme has caused the renewables industry, especially photovoltaics, to develop in an unprecedented way, not recorded in earlier periods of our contemporary history. With regard to the Thermomodernisation and Renovation Fund, I inform your senator that the fund has not been wound up, it still works, it is implemented by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. As for the central registration of buildings, these are the most important issues that Mr. Senator raised... In the Digital Poland programme, which finances the implementation of this programme, the funding period for this objective has been defined as from July 2020 until the end of December 2020, with the first stage, the first module of the IT programme, being implemented by November 2021. This is the moment when the Minister for Development will be able to issue the communication that the Senator mentioned, because he asked what would happen if the communication was not issued. Well, the message will be published because that's the business. I dare say so. The strategic Polish state, as it is an interest in quality of life, is the interest of health and even the lives of Polish citizens. And this central building base must enter into force as a tool to achieve this goal. One last thing, the most important thing. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski has tabled amendments aimed at removing personal data relating to persons from this central register, as if it were to stop at the registration, collection, processing of building data. At the same time, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, it must be said here that every building has its own owner, who is responsible for this building. The building itself has no possibility of making statements of will, the building is practically an object, it is a thing which in itself cannot take any action. And we need a partner to implement this program, a partner who is responsible for whether harmful substances enter the environment or not. At institutional level it is a local government unit and local governments are the best partner for us in the implementation of this project. In any case, without the person responsible for the emission, for the low emissions from the combustion source we will not be able to implement this program, he will simply be dead. It should also be said that the address information is not information about the owner's address, but information about the address of the property on which the source of the issue is located, the heating of the apartment, the building in question. And Mr. Senator, as if he was trying to document or justify a certain thesis, in advance, a false one, aimed at the fact that we're going to introduce some form of surveillance into this bill. Once again, I stress with all my power: the purpose of this law is not to collect personal data about residents, citizens of the Republic of Poland, and this is for purposes other than those related to air quality care, with the achievement of the effect of improving the air, which we all breathe. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, despite real respect and sympathy for all your senators - including Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, who has shown great criticism of this project. I ask the High House to reject all the amendments, because the rejection of these amendments will make the bill quickly reach the President's desk in order to sign it, and then this law will become the law in force. It will become the law in force so that all those who are waiting for it, who have participated in the process of creating it, and these are among others. organizations such as Polish Smog Alert, with special attention to Krakow's Smog Alert... Thank you for mentioning the Krakow Smog Alert here by Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Its members, activists, have particularly benefited from the design of this bill. But this is also the case for municipalities that have signed agreements under the 'Stop smog' programme, and are currently waiting for this programme to be extended, so that it can be implemented to an extended extent. There are really no hidden issues in this law that could cause concern for the Polish society. I want to make sure of that with all my responsibility. I ask the High House to adopt this law so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u267	Thank you very much. By way of exception, because the name of Senator Gawłowski has been exchanged, I ask for a brief corrigendum. You may approach the speaker, but please speak briefly, because this is basically out of mode, the discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u268	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I'll just quote a piece of the bill, Minister, your bill, designed by you. Art. Article 27 (2) (a) and (b) of 3... What will the central registration of buildings contain? The data of the owners or managers of buildings or premises, i.e. the name or name of the owner or manager and the address of his place of residence or establishment. The address of his place of residence, Minister, and the address of his property. Minister, you collect the address of your residence, and you collect the address of your property separately. I agree with this information about the real estate address, I'm just saying I don't agree with the data about the citizen. I understand the need for central real estate records, but I do not understand why you want to collect information about citizens who may have several properties and live in a completely different place, have a different address to live in. There is no need, Minister, as there is no need to collect information about the telephone number or e-mail address. There is no need and there is no explanation for such action. And you really don't want to use any more harsh words... Minister, I do not deny the need for this bill. I'm just talking about what I think is unnecessary in my deepest conviction, just as there's no need for information about the apartment allowance. It's about family, it's about square meters and so on, and it has no connection to the building's emissions. None, Senator Kwiatkowski. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u269	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on the Environment, the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held tomorrow. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u270	The joint meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment on the examination of proposals submitted to the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernisation and renovation and some other laws will take place tomorrow at 9.15 a.m. in the Senate plenary room. And before that, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance will meet at 8.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u271	Thank you very much. I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow... [[Can I make one announcement?]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u272	Tomorrow at 8.15 p.m., a meeting of the Legislative Commission was to be convened. This committee has a postponed session, it will meet on 8 October at 10.30 a.m., in the context of the draft notariat law, due to the fact that certain data have not been received that will help us to process the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-09-29-senat-16-1.u273	Thank you, Mr President. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 20 minutes 40]]
