ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. Mr. and Mrs. Senators in the Senate building, please check to see if you all have disabled applications to participate remotely. I would like to inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Therefore, I ask you to cast any vote to confirm your presence. Turn on the machinery in our O.R. [[Voice from the room: No signal.]] [[Voice from the room: Now.]] There it is. Please state the results of the test vote. 64 senators voted. [[Voting No 12]] So many senators are currently attending the meeting, but, as we all know, this figure will grow in a short time. I would like to inform you that on the second and third day of the session, Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska will be the secretary holding the list of speakers in the sitting room. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending certain laws supporting the development of housing and consider it as item eight of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. I don't see any calls. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. So we begin to work on the next points. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. The text of the Act is contained in print 256 and the committee report In print No 256 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Beata Małecka-Libera, to submit a report to the committee. At the same time, I inform you that a half-hour break will be announced at 10.30 a.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u2	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is my pleasure to present a report to the Health Committee. "Print No 256 A' On 28 October 2020, the Law amending the Law amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19 was adopted by the Sejm. On 29 October 2020, the Senate Marshal sent this law to the committee. Following a review of the law on 17 November, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt a draft resolution in which the committee decided to reject the law in its entirety. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! During the committee meeting... First of all, I would like to bring up the most important issue, namely the fact that this project is a project that breaks the constitution. This draft law refers to a bill that was proceded by the Senate and passed on 28 October, in which the law, so-called. health law, a number of additional elements to improve the situation of medical workers and the health system have been guaranteed. This law has not yet been implemented. Although it was legally passed through the entire legislative process, it was signed by the President... first, of course, voted out in the Seym, then signed by the President, it has not been done to this day. And here's the curial situation that has happened, which is that this project that I am discussing today refers to the previous law, even though it is so de facto not in the legal order and is not implemented. This is really a curial situation to break the law exactly at the moment when it arises, and not implement it, even though the President of the Council of Ministers is obliged, in accordance with the law, to comply with the article. 46 constitutions, implementing resolutions and laws which are legally adopted by Parliament. The Ministry's representative didn't come to the Health Committee meeting. 'Cause of course the project is a parliamentary project. The Minister of Health present in the Chamber, who was delegated to other draft laws, was not authorised by the Government to determine the position of the Government. This, High Senate, shows how this project, the parliamentary project, was treated by the Ministry of Health and by the government. During the committee's work, we wondered whether it would be worthwhile to bend over to this law at all and devote time to it, because at first it was proposed that this law should be fully rejected. However, we have started a discussion because it concerns a very important issue, it concerns a desire to help health care, a desire to help medical workers. It seemed that the first law, the one on 28 October, was at least a partial expression of the will to support the medical profession. Unfortunately, the project discussed today actually all the records and all the proposals that were dedicated to medical staff and which included. guarantee an additional remuneration for medical staff providing medical services to patients with a coravirus or with suspicion of coronavirus, in this bill, which I am talking about today, removes. This is unimaginable to carry out the process of amending a law that has passed the legislative process, has the President's signature and is not being implemented. What are the most important issues that will deprive medical workers of their rights in the law currently under review? First of all, this project will take away an additional 100 percent remuneration for all medical workers involved in the fight against COVID. The Senate wondered very deeply about this issue, and our determinant was art. The 32nd Constitution, which ensures equality for all who provide health services, provides equal, equal principles. It cannot be that the person who is posted by the voivode has a different salary than the one who is employed for the contract of employment and does exactly the same work. The rights of insured persons employed in medicinal entities who are in compulsory quarantine, isolation or isolation in domestic conditions have also been removed and who have carried out the obligations arising out of employment in connection with COVID to receive a 100% wage under the Labour Code during an epidemic or epidemic period. The Act also abolishes the obligation on the President of the National Health Fund to amend the financial plan for 2020 in order to increase by at least 15% a flat-rate fee intended to finance health care services carried out in relation to COVID-19. So, in conclusion, I would like to say that firstly, the project absolutely does not meet the legal criteria, it breaks the constitution. We senators have said from the beginning that we will uphold the laws and, above all, the constitution. So that, even for this first reason, this project should absolutely not find recognition in the High House. Second This is an equally important issue. We take away the right to increase the remuneration of medical workers who have been in the first line since the outbreak began, from the very beginning. They, regardless of the original safety situation, have always been on the first line in the fight against the coronavirus and this supplement of 100% They deserve it. I would also like to say that during the committee meeting we pointed out that this law proposes that, during the quarantine period, 100% be offered to medical staff. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled I would like to make it clear that this record is an absolutely outdated record, because the Minister of Health has changed his strategy and currently medical workers are no longer subject to quarantine, so it is a dead rule that does not completely help, cannot help medical workers and is really just causing confusion. Another information, which also appeared at the Health Committee, is that, in addition to those acts I am talking about, there is also a recommendation from the Minister of Health, a mandate from the National Health Fund to analyse the possible increase in salaries for SOR staff and rescue workers. So it is still an attempt to divide the environment, whose representatives stand side by side, because both doctors, nurses, rescuers, diagnes, as well as all other people who work in the S.R. units help fight the epidemic. In conclusion, I must say that this law, this project, is a manifest violation of the law, a manifest violation of the Constitution, but above all, it is absolutely unacceptable for substantive reasons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At this point, I would like to welcome Minister Gadomski and Mr Żelk. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. We're gonna ask the senator to come back to the stand because Senator Necessary has questions for the senator. Well, he's a member of the Health Committee and he's got questions. Senator Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u4	Mr. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question for the president, the rapporteur. Was there any contact between the committee meeting and the Senate meeting, any information from the Ministry of Health? I ask because we do not really know what the position of the Ministry of Health is because Minister Gadomski, present at the meeting of the Health Committee, was not authorized to present his position. So I would like to know whether the President has any knowledge of whether the Ministry of Health supports the taking of money from medical professionals or does not support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u5	Thank you very much. I didn't get any information, I had no contact with the Ministry of Health. You're the minister in the court, so I think this question can be addressed to the minister, not to me. I would just like to say to the High House that today begins to work on another law, which is also a parliamentary project. I would like to point out that all these health-related projects in the fight against the coronavirus that appear are not government projects. I am paying attention to this because it seems to me that it is extraordinary that in such a difficult, crisis time, during the fight against the epidemic, the problems are solved by Members, not representatives of the Ministry of Health. Anyway, I don't have that kind of information. I think the Minister will answer if he is authorized to do so.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u6	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Szejnfeld a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. To be honest, not from my professional experience as a parliamentary, already 23-year-old, nor from my knowledge of the law and the legislative process does it appear that such a situation, as the senator described by you, has once taken place. It is absolutely amazing how you can try to change or amend a law that you can say doesn't exist. Because until the Act enters into force, it will not be published in the Official Journal and will not pass the term vacathio legis indicated in the Act, until it is present, it does not apply. I would also like to say that, for this reason, at least in hospitals that I know, and perhaps there are more of these cases, there is confusion, because directors, probably to keep employees not only at work, but simply in mobilization, in such positive mobilisation, have already promised them whether or not they declared 100 percent of the allowances, and then they withdrew from it. I've got a magazine about it, so it's not like it's just a rumor. I want to ask you two questions. In your view, what legal and factual effects might this have on the rapporteur? Legally, that is, whether such a state of affairs should remain... The point is whether we should go beyond the fact that we are trying to break the law in Poland and the legislative process, or whether we should do so. There was such a discussion at the committee's meeting. Some government-disciplined actions, expressing outrage, but also a lack of agreement that someone openly leads to a breach of the legislative process. Second thing. What effect can this have? This is more important now, in an epidemic era, especially for patients, in terms of mobilising medical personnel in terms of trust in the state, in their own state, in their own government, in their own country? Isn't there a dramatic effect here when it comes to epidemics, demobilization? Because the collapse of state authority... [[Mr. Senator, question. Discussion...]] Because the collapse of state authority ends in the lack of trust of citizens, so as if in a moment, passiveness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u8	Mr. Senator, I think I've made that pretty clear. What is happening here is an absolute precedent, because we are debating a law amending a law that is not being implemented at the moment and is not in the legal order. So I think that's an absolute precedent. And we cannot agree to be allowed to do so, because this is a selective law, I understand, of the President of the Council of Ministers, who will decide which law he wants to implement and which he does not want. This is an outrage. That is why there will be a special press conference at 10.30 a.m. during which we will address the Prime Minister. We will have representatives, presidents of all medical professions, who will also speak on this issue. This is the first case. Second thing. You said it was really a psychic thing. For me, it's all the more so because of the convalidation. . such a beautiful word that appears in the explanatory statement. It's Polish for healing. This is such a situational giggle for me that we are talking about a difficult epidemic situation, about the amazing challenges facing medical workers at the moment, about the lack of really strong support and the strong motivation of these people to work, and we here, in this project, want to heal the bill in order to achieve full legal value. Well, that's really unacceptable. You also asked me how patients are doing. I think patients are being taken care of, Mr. Senator, because all medical personnel have been doing everything they can to make patients feel the least about themselves. But it's a fact, it's true that there's a shortage of medical personnel. And you have to do everything you can to help them in this job, and you have to motivate those people not to feel the physical and psychological burden on them every day.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u9	Thank you very much, Senator. I have one brief question. Did the committee's meeting raise the financial implications of the current law? Well, not binding, because it was not published, but passed by the Sejm, the Senate and signed by the President. The point is that there were contradictions in public space about giant amounts that were supposedly unbearable, while economists' calculations showed up ten times lower. Was this mentioned at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u10	I understand that Mr. Marshal refers to the debate on the first law that granted this supplement to medical workers. Ladies and gentlemen, at the committee's meeting, we did not have any calculations as to the number of staff and what amounts it would be, but I would like to point out here that it is not true that it is 40 billion. At present, it is estimated that there are about 16 to 18 thousand workers who fight the coronavirus on the first line, so the estimated cost is about 4 billion a year. In the fight against the epidemic is not, I think, some shocking amount that would cause our state budget to collapse. I think there are a lot of places in the budget where you can give up your investment and do everything you can to strengthen and help the health system.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. It's like 2 installments for Polish Television. And it would be collected. This is a project that has been submitted by Members. Mr Jacek Żalek, who I welcome once again to the Senate Chamber, was authorised to present the position of the Members of the project. Would you like to speak? Mr. President, I'm guessing so, but it's 10.26. , so that... [[Four minutes is all I need.]] Yes? [[Yes.]] But... no, no, because they're gonna be asking you questions. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: There will be questions.]] They'll be asking you questions. Now I'm gonna take a half-hour break... [[Maybe I'll just explain the philosophy. Those four minutes are enough for me.]] But it's been three minutes... Mr. Speaker, all of a sudden, it's for the devil... [[I'll make it in three...]] [[We're more interested in the bill than...]] I'm calling a 33-minute recess until 11:00. We will begin with Mr Złok's speech. [[Adjournment from 10 minutes 27 to 11 minutes 01]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u12	I'm reopening the session. High Izbo, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: the Act amending the Law on Feed and consider it as item 11 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. We are returning to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. Before the session was interrupted, the rapporteur, Mr Beat Małecka-Libera, presented the report to the Health Committee and answered the senators' questions. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Jacek Żalek was authorised to present the position of the Members of the bill's applicants. I see that the Member wishes to take the floor on this. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u13	Yes, sir, thank you, Marshal. High Izbo! In fact, apart from the emotions that accompanied the President's speech, in principle with all the sames, with the majority, those that did not go beyond the scope of the amendment in question, I could agree. And I think the difference is how we interpret these laws and what they really mean. Because this change is going to make it really those health workers who are carrying on their shoulders... who are on the first line of helping covid patients, the fight against pandemics, and pay the highest price, because the risk price and the price associated with the fact that these patients are coming, and even because they cannot visit their families, these patients need additional care... And it is those who are on the first line that we want to give additional resources to these health professionals. However, it is difficult to agree that additional resources are due to each worker. First of all, because the minister... And in previous laws, we have granted the Minister the opportunity to grant such allowances to, for example, POZ doctors. If it's all theirs now... Because here there is no distinction between those who are on the first line, and those who are, for example. they're on sick leave or on those who don't have to deal with covid patients every day. If they also deserve this increase, it would be wrong, first of all, because we do not have the money, and secondly, because these measures are designed to motivate those who are actually in this trouble to reward the enormous burden of helping covid patients. And the amendment is that these measures should go to those who most deserve it, not all, without distinction. The lack of such distinction is simply unfair. Because some of the medical staff have already received such allowances under other laws. Unfortunately, we are updating these rules quite often, but we are doing so because we are still looking for new opportunities, and we are still adapting to a situation that is very often surprising because we are dealing with a pandemic. I share your intuition, I share your hopes. Our country can afford those doctors, those members of the medical staff who are on the first line, who carry the burden of responsibility for covid patients on their shoulders, to receive such support. Diluting this support by dividing it into everyone would just be depressing. And that's the difference, we interpret it differently. This interpretation I presented is correct, because there were no other criteria here. If it were for everyone, regardless of whether anyone had received such an allowance before... From a health budget point of view, such allowances would be devastating. As far as estimates are concerned, it's hard to predict anything today, because it's a matter of who we'd be qualified for. In theory, everyone can meet with COVID today, but not everyone works on the front line. Anyone can face a disease, so any healthcare professional could make such a claim. That's why estimates say 40 billion. I've also heard about 15 billion, but we still can't afford it, because we don't have that much money in the budget. Today, the stability of the system is a guarantee that health care will be effective in helping and effectively fighting the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u14	Thank you. At present, senators may submit from a place of no more than a minute's duration a request to the authorised representative of the applicants, Mr Jacek Żalk, relating to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary. Senator Wojciech Necessary! I see he's not in the O.R. Then I'd like to ask Senator Magdalena Loven's question. Senator Magdalena Lovers! [[Looks like there's no connection.]] [[Voice from the room: He participates remotely.]] [[Maybe there's no connection.]] Then we'll wait for her to merge, and in the meantime, please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u15	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr President, I'm embarrassed by your words. You say such smooth, round words that really don't agree with the situation we're dealing with right now. You're not a medical worker, and you don't know what's going on in hospitals or in different places where there's a struggle for the lives and health of patients. You say we don't have any money, but it's just a matter of choice, setting priorities. What's more important to you? The life and health of society, the fight against the epidemic, or maybe other investments such as measure or TVP? The money is, Mr. Member, but we need to make good use of it, and we need to make the right shifts. It depends on the priorities. You also said Those are your words. That these measures are intended to motivate. And who are they supposed to motivate? Only those who work at the National Stadium, or those who work in the E.R. or the ambulance? After all, they all do the same hard work. You also said that you should give to those who quote They deserve it the most. A nurse, a doctor or a paramedic, or an emergency room who cleans up this hospital from morning till evening? How are you going to define who deserves it more? This is what we were talking about here in the Senate about, that those people who have direct contact with patients with the coronavirus must be treated evenly with regard to the extra salary, for an additional salary, because they all stand together and equally patient. Thank you... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Does the senator have a question for you on this matter?]] Yes. What kind of priorities have you adopted in an epidemic age when you say there's no money for extra pay?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u16	You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u17	I don't know if we're talking about the same submission then. The senate project intended to provide all health care professionals with accessories. Minister... After all, we have repeatedly amended the law that enabled the Minister And it's been a long time. . giving such additives. If the Minister gave such allowances to POZ employees, i.e. doctors of POZ, then giving them the same allowances twice, because according to this bill, you have to give them again... And Madam President was right to say that it is necessary to give these salons, these nurses, those doctors who are at the police station who are fighting for the lives and health of Poles. Granting allowances to everyone will mean that we will take more money away from those who are really doing this job. That's the point. The point is that a good intention, a noble intention, in a situation where there are no clear criteria that should be given to everyone, means, in fact, that we refuse those who are on the front line. That's what this is all about. Those who put their health at risk, and often their lives, will get exactly the same amount as those who do not provide such services and can. Because from these provisions, the claim can be made by any healthcare professional, because anyone can be exposed to an infected person. Everyone. Those who work long, have hours, sometimes round-the-clock shifts, will get exactly the same amount as those who are on leave. It's not fair. Because they have a claim... We're talking about separation. Therefore, on the issue of emotion, on issues relating to the submission of full agreement. We just want to help those who deserve it, but not everyone. And that's the difference.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u18	Thank you. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u19	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to know first of all whether the Deputy Minister present in the Chamber is entitled to answer questions, because then I would also have questions with the Minister and would not have sent them all to Mr Żelk. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the Minister was not authorized to answer questions. If that is the case now, I will only address the questions to Mr Zlek.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u20	Could you tell the Minister if you'd answer the questions? The Minister nods his head, which means he'll be entitled to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u21	Thank you very much. Your statement shows that you do not understand this amendment or that you are deliberately twisting it. It is not that all medical workers will be raised by the introduction of our amendment. Only those workers who have been assigned to fight the COVID... not directed to fight the COVID by the voivode, but all who are really involved in this fight. You directed all of you to fight the COVID because that was the decision, that was the strategy of Minister Niedzielski, that all the county hospitals, voivodship, university hospitals, all the clinics are supposed to accept patients that they cannot refuse to accept, everyone is supposed to be admitted to the S.R., everyone is supposed to go somewhere. Well, they've been on all the wards. If you don't know this, it means that you're not living in the real world at all, but in some duped, possibly the one that was in July and August when there weren't enough patients. So my question is this... I mean, do you even understand the substance of this amendment? Because there's also money in there to help hospitals, so that hospitals don't have to pay back money for an unearned contract that isn't made because of the voivodeship's decision. Can you tell me what your intention is, what you are aiming for? You want these hospitals to be deprived of money for a contract in 2020? Because this amendment guarantees them to leave this contract. So why are you throwing this part of the amendment away? And I have another question: do you know anything about this, that the concept has changed and not all hospitals are to participate? If not all of them, then we don't pay. Has the concept changed and we're going back to one-name hospitals? And will we only pay the employees of these hospitals with one name? And also the last question: do you think that, for example, the Member of the European Union? Salaries, which work in covid wards, belong to accessories, do they not belong? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u22	You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u23	Thank you. Mr. Senator, I am not responsible for the Ministry of Health's policy, I am responsible for this submission, for this amendment. And I would ask you to ask questions about this submission. It's so short, it's really... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: Mr. Member, and if... please... if you can't...]] ...you can get to know him. It's on one... This is a presentation...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u24	Mr President, if you can't answer the question, please tell me... [[Mrs. Marshal, Mrs. Marshal...]] ...and then pay attention... But can you... Mr. Ambassador, I'm speaking now. Mr Senator, if you have asked a question that you cannot answer, don't comment on it, just say that you cannot answer that question and you will answer the Minister. But comment on that. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Answer the senator's question. [[I answer, if your marshal refuses me the opportunity to comment on a question that is not about...]] Then tell me you're not gonna answer because it's not about the subject, but it's not about the commentary. [[Then don't comment, because culture...]] Mr. President, I would very much like you to... [[...a marshal is also in force.]] Mr. Speaker, focus... [[Senator, allow me to...]] Mr... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Mr President, please keep quiet for a moment. I'll tell you one more time. Because I'm in the middle of a meeting, not you... [[You're driving, you're not interrupting, and this...]] We're in the Senate, not the Seym. [[...there's a fundamental difference.]] That's why I'm making sure you don't comment on any questions, because you have to answer the question, not comment on them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u25	My answer is this... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: There you go.]] ...that questions not relating to this amendment can be addressed to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u26	Thank you very much. [[As the entire draft of the amendment is on one page, I recommend reading.]] Do you still want to ask the senator?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u27	Of course, Mr President, you do not understand that you are deleting the following article. You do it, you're the applicant. Then answer me. I'll read it to you because I don't think you know you're rejecting the article in our amendment. It is short and reads this: the President of the NFZ will amend the financial plan of the NFZ for 2020 in order to increase the flat-rate fee referred to in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act as amended by Art. 20, at least 15%. I point 2: appropriations made available in the framework of the financing of health care benefits in the form of a flat-rate fee referred to in Article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Act as amended by Art. 20 which are not used until 31 December 2020 are non-refundable. Don't defend yourself with one piece of paper, because you're taking a lot of money from hospitals right now. And explain yourself. It's up to you to decide. Now don't pretend that you don't know what it's about, that it doesn't concern you. I'm listening. Why are you taking the hospital's money? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u28	The senator asked me a question about financing hospitals. In this amendment, we refer to a specific provision that belongs to every healthcare professional. Without differentiation, without giving the Minister of Health the authority to indicate... Because earlier we gave such a right by law and the Minister of Health spent funds on additional salaries for POZ doctors, those doctors who were indicated by the voivode. And they've already got the resources. The point is for the minister to have the opportunity to make up for those nurses, the saloons, the doctors who haven't gotten these accessories so far. And that's what this amendment is about. Other systemic solutions, possibly related to the necessary change in the NFZ policy resulting from the fact that some hospitals have actually been closed, are separate issues which are not included in this submission.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u29	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but I've recounted what you've changed. At least be aware of the two pages you're presenting to us. At one point, you're removing these articles. And I'm asking, why are you doing this? This isn't about... I don't think you realize that you're removing two amendments: one of them, of course, the one you're talking about over and over again... She's obviously appalling and outrageous, but let's just leave it at that. But you also remove the second amendment, which I remind you of, was intended to ensure that hospitals did not have to pay back money for an unenforced contract in 2020. So I'm listening: if you remove it, what do you give in return? As you can imagine, what other help will be given to these hospitals if they didn't perform the contract because they couldn't do it because they were turned into covid hospitals and couldn't operate and so on.? Well, I don't want to spread it around anymore, so I don't have to pass the time. And then there's the second line. There is an increase of 15% in the value of health benefits. Because the cost of hospital operations has increased. And you're the one who's getting rid of that bill without even knowing it. You're just, unfortunately... Well, I don't know what to call it, but I don't think you're the author of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u30	You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u31	Questions about how the NFZ will solve this problem are still being studied in the work of crisis teams, and today there is no answer to them. A situation in which, mechanically, i.e. without discerning the effects of this, we will adopt a solution in which we will assume in advance that right now, without knowing what funds the fund has, we will cover, even without knowing the situation of specific hospitals... That would be hasty. And ask the health minister that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u32	Thank you. Are you still asking questions, senator? [[No. I can see I won't get an answer to that question, so thank you very much. I'll ask the Minister.]] Thank you. Senator Magdalena Loven. Is the senator connected yet? There's no connection. I'll ask the question... [[I'm sorry, am I...]] Oh, there it is. There you go, Senator. [[Voice from the room: Can't hear...]] Senator Magdalena Loven. We heard each other for a while.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u33	Thank you very much. Can you hear me now? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Yes, you are now heard.]] Thank you very much. We live, Mrs. Marshal, the Senators, in very strange times: we are ruled by the Deputy Prime Minister, who is above the Prime Minister, the government does not write laws for which he should take responsibility, because they are written by the Members and sent to the Senate by a Member who does not know anything about the presentation which he is supposed to co-author. That's one statement. Therefore, I will not ask you a question about this amendment, because he does not know much about it. But let me ask you a question, which you have repeated several times, namely: where do you get money for these correct Senate amendments, which should be announced and implemented and which, without being implemented, you are already updating, as if in the Seym. Well, you voted in favour of this position of the Sejm, in which you support the veto towards the European Union budget and you say: no, we do not need this, we will not reach for the Fund for Reconstruction, in which Poland is provided with money to come out of the crisis and fight against the pandemic. Why did you do that? You have to reach for the money. This money, within the framework of the European Union's solidarity, would be received by Poland. Why did you vote in favour of solutions that de facto prevent it? I would like to ask you questions about matters relating to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u34	Mr President, I inform you that the question is not related to this submission, so you may, but you do not have to answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u35	I would remind you that the dispute is not about whether or not to give allowances to healthcare professionals, but to what extent. The dispute concerns the identification of the group of those who are entitled. We want to clarify the records so that the allowances are given to all those who have been deprived of them so far. The Voivodeships have certain powers, the head of the NFZ also has, and above all, he has a minister who has so far had these additional resources. We want to supplement this and appreciate the employees who have so far been deprived of these allowances. That's all this is about, making them fair. That's where we're different. As far as the veto case is concerned, of course, it is not intended for us not to be given this money. As the High House knows perfectly well, in the European Union we have two communities: a community of those who give money, and those who take money, and these are communities of interest. Those who give money would want as much money as possible to return to them, and those who take money would want as much money as possible to stay with them. It's understandable. Let us not be angry at those who contribute more to the European Union's budget, that they want to see as much as possible come back to them. There is also no reason for us to be ashamed that we, who pay less, who are beneficiaries, want as much as possible to stay with us. But the dependence of the allocation of these funds on the unclear, non-traditional criterion leads us to use the veto argument. This argument is intended to ensure that no one is addicted to the payment of funds that are due to us on the basis of such, rather than any other parity which has been adopted and results from the Treaty guarantees, guarantees that we will receive these funds. We do not want to be in a situation where someone will depend on political correctness whether or not these measures belong to us. We are hoping that this instrument may only be a negotiating instrument that will allow these funds to reach us. This still does not change the fact that additives It is in my view that those who have not received such allowances to this day are entitled to such allowances, unlike those who have received them. I'm talking about the bill that we're updating, and he assumed that everyone would get evenly, regardless of commitment and whether they've already received a supplement. Why is the living room, which I'm going to say, we're fighting here, and she's going to get hurt because the P.O.P. doctor is going to get double and she's only going to get it once? Question: why don't we want to differentiate? These supplements because it's not a system solution... It was a possibility before, such allowances could be granted by the Minister, and the Minister granted them. We want to increase the scope of those entitled to these allowances. It is right to grant allowances to medical personnel who are on the front line against the pandemic, as much as possible, but this cannot be on a basis that prevents the fair distribution of these resources, these allowances. That's the point. We differ in the assessment of how to grant these measures rather than whether to grant them. Insinuating that we do not want to grant these measures is simply unfair, unjust. I repeat, the minister had the opportunity to grant discretion, depending on where he thought the staff needed... They were mostly doctors, and now we want to supplement, expand this group of people. If we give everyone, we hurt those who haven't yet. If everyone had gotten it sooner... But there was no system solution, we were under pressure of time. The Minister has been granted these powers. You were also in favour of the Minister having such powers. That's why there's no reason to change the rules of this salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u36	Thank you. Now I'm gonna ask you three questions. First question. On what grounds do you claim that only doctors sent to work by administrative decision are those who deserve these allowances, and the rest of the doctors who work in the wards and also directly contact the infected and work with them, do not deserve these allowances? The second question, also about your previous statement. What criteria will you use to investigate the involvement of doctors in the fight against COVID? And the third question. Do you know what an hour's wages are paid by ambulance workers who deal with dozens of COVID people every day and carry them in these ambulances? Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u37	Mrs. Marshal, first non-compliance: I didn't say anywhere that those voivodship-directed doctors should be paid as opposed to the rest. That's where we're different. We want to reward not only those who have been pointed out and who have the resources, but also those who have not been and who are simply working on their troops. They're midwives, they're nurses, they're paramedics. Those should all have these extras. The argument that only those posted by the voivode... That's not justified. That's what these measures are meant to do. We want it to be a coherent system. We gave these powers to the Minister earlier. Yes? The point is that the senate presentation gave everyone the authority to do this, regardless of whether or not someone had these allowances. So either we pick up these extras and then we give everyone... The point is for the minister to have the opportunity to give it to everyone. And you're gonna be reviewers whether you gave or didn't. Of course, this is a flawed solution, but we agreed to this precedent earlier. There's no reason not to correct this injustice now. And that's why we're waiting for this bill, so that they can get these allowances by the Minister's decision. It's just that it's not like those who are in quarantine and who have a salary for something else got exactly the same as those who work at the hospital. It's the same with dismissals. So those who are on parole don't get exactly the same amount as those doctors, that medical staff that's on the front line with the COVID... That's what this is about. The point is that there are no inequalities, we just want to eliminate them. The Minister will be able to allocate the entire pool to all those who have not yet received these allowances. So we do not differ in whether or not to grant these measures. We differ in how to grant these measures. Is the Minister fulfilling these obligations correctly? I hope so. The minister faced a special situation. The scale of the problems, as we can see from the example of countries where health care was considered to be a model... Many times these systems simply failed to withstand such a number of patients in need of hospitalization. That is why the Minister acted in a hurry and wanted to quickly bury all the ditches that could have made our health system inefficient as well. So far it has been successful, and it is still powerful. These solutions that have been adopted by us are also copied by some Western countries. We're all following good patterns, peeking, looking at others. The Minister ensures that the best solutions are copied and implemented immediately in Poland. But we don't know which ones are the best, we do it a little bit by trial and error. So if you want to be held accountable for not all the solutions being perfect, then I don't know if this is the right way. We want to help. I understand that the intention of this Senate presentation was also to help. I don't see why we'd be different. Let's just be clear about what's at stake here. It's the way we're gonna take who's gonna get the money. We believe that it is unfair to give them to everyone regardless of the right criterion, especially since they will be less likely to be given, because the pool of this money will be the same, to those who have been overlooked before, whom the Minister has not been able to grant these funds. The Ministry also monitors the situation and sees new needs every now and then. At a time when there was an increase in disease, when it seemed that there would be so many patients that hospitals would not be able to accept these patients, there was an initiative to build these temporary hospitals, among others. at the National Stadium. It turned out that the solutions that were adopted resulted in the fact that, fortunately, these hospitals were not fully used. I'm saying luckily, because the idea was that there was such a reserve, but thank God it wasn't fully used. Should we condemn the Minister for taking this effort in case, however, it turns out that these measures are not sufficient to prevent the pandemic from spreading? Turns out it was enough. Well, of course the price for this is paid by the Polish economy, because the freezing of the economy is also the huge price we pay for fighting the pandemic. It requires the cooperation of several ministers, several resorts. That is why I am answering, because perhaps this question will be addressed to the Minister, why Members are submitting this amendment. Because it does not require this procedure, which, if it were done in an inter-ministerial consultation, would continue indefinitely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u38	Two more questions. Because the answer to that question, even though it's a long one, is that you don't understand... [[Okay...]] ...expositions you're presenting. But there were two more questions. [[...thank you for your comment. Your marshal asked me not to comment...]] That was my question, and I'm not satisfied... [[So your marshal can comment?]] I'm asking a question now. Second and third question... [[Not a commentary, I hope.]] [[Shortly enough for him to answer...]] [[Please?]] Second and third question. [[Remind me.]] Two: how will you examine the criterion of involvement of doctors in the fight against the coronavirus? Is that even... Well, you've said many times here that some people will deserve more, some less, so I'd like to ask you what this criterion will be.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u39	Why does your marshal rule out medical personnel who... those who aren't doctors, e.g. Nurses? [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I am talking about everyone. But I'm asking for a criterion. What is the criterion?]] The criterion will be... These decisions will be taken in the Ministry of Health and will ultimately be taken by the Minister. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: But based on what criterion?]] [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: This is complete nonsense.]] Based on where there's going to be the most demand. So far, on the basis of the Minister's decision, some of these staff, such as POZ doctors, such as those posted by the voivodships, have received these funds, but not all of them. Therefore, since we have adopted a discretionary system, because it is a kind of discretionary system, it assumes that the minister, when he sees the situation, and yet he is still in contact with the voivodships who monitor the work of hospitals on an ongoing basis, and with the head of the National Health Fund, will decide who is responsible for this money. Of course, if the Minister leaves out any group, those who are indeed on the front line, you will be the first critics. I hope the minister doesn't make such a mistake, because his intention is precisely that he doesn't refuse these measures. I don't know why we assume in advance that the Minister would want to deny them to someone and divide doctors into those who are better or worse. Till now, it's been a decision. We want to encourage a larger group of doctors. The doctors were missing, and they were pointed out to you by the voivod, the ones with the warrant. They had to be given the means to encourage them to take the job. Now you have to give them to all those who are still working, and they didn't get those additives. I don't see any reason why... it feels like even if it's a flawed system, he'll be fair.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u40	And my third question. [[Say it again.]] Do you know what the salary is for those who drive in smazobuses and who have a very large contact every day, and drive... [[I don't know. If your marshal were polite...]] 15 PLN net per hour. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm asking you to ask me a question... [[I hope it's for those...]] That's what these people aren't gonna get. Definitely not. [[Why don't they? How does the marshal know?]] Because they are otherwise employed and their companies are not targeted... [[But I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, it's...]] If you want an answer... Because these are voivodship transports, which have a flat-rate for the delivery of ambulances with equipment. They just get money from the NFZ once a quarter and these employees don't get any extras. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u41	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! First of all, I would like to ask the marshal to change your way of conducting the proceedings, i.e. she did not allow, I no longer say that to ask questions which have nothing to do with the content of the bill under consideration, but above all to try to offend the Member. For a simple reason: I as e.g. A representative of the Senate applicants who appear before the Sejm, I would not like to be treated like the Member at the moment.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u42	Mr. Senator, I can answer you right away and let's get this discussion over with. When the question was not on the subject, I deliberately told the Member that he did not have to answer that question. That's one thing. And second of all, I was in the Seym and had the dubious pleasure of performing in front of the committee. I wouldn't wish you... But perhaps your senator would have been treated differently. That's the subject. So important to society that senators... Here the level of culture is preserved, and emotions are natural, because it is really about the health and life of our citizens, as well as about the health and life of doctors who cure them. And here... [[Mrs. Marshal, a longer lecture not about...]] That's why I'm keeping an eye on the agenda... [[Yeah, you can see that.]] I'd like to ask you a question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u43	We're gonna stick with each other. The world should begin to be repaired first and foremost. The question is closely related to the text of the law that came to us, namely from the article. 2. I'm not talking about substance. It's clear here. The amending act, or law which we are considering, and the amending act, by the way, having the same date, 28 October, shall enter into force on the day following the date of the announcement. In order for there to be no problems, this day of announcement must be the same, and here it must be ensured by the legislative centre of the government, because it is known that the amending act cannot enter into force sooner than the amended one. The opposite case will simply reverse these changes, i.e. If the amended law entered into force earlier, one of the provisions which repealed that amending law should apply from 5 September. As a result, one day of validity of the amended law results in financial burdens of at least 3 months. Do you not think that, in order to protect yourself against, let us call it queueing and possible problems that fall on the legislative centre of the government, a different wording should be made of the article. 2 of our present law? Namely: the Act enters into force on the date of the entry into force of the Act as amended by Article. 1. Then it would be clear, at the statutory level, that we would have, so to speak, a clear line.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u44	Thank you very much. Mr?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u45	It is difficult for me to be responsible for government legislation, because it is a parliamentary project, because it is not to wait for inter-ministerial arrangements for which this procedure would continue indefinitely. So I hope that the KPRM legislators are aware of this, and as far as I know They do. That's why the Prime Minister... I assume that is why this law has not yet been published, because its publication would in fact mean the risk of claims that would exceed the budgetary capacity in a situation where we are facing a huge economic crisis. We do not know what the scale of the economic constraints associated with the need to strangle the epidemic will be. Invoking further financial commitments can cause us simply not to be able to, so to speak, bind the budget. So, in addition to the epidemic crisis, we would still have the budgetary crisis and the economic crisis. Hence the parliamentary initiative. Well, if you don't know what's going on, then... In this case, it's just... I will refer to this question, which may not be the case for this submission. Well, even if we were to get money from the European Union, it would still be better to aim this money at vaccineing, so that there would be better conditions for treatment than for years to face the potential risk of simply collapsing in health care, resulting from claims, even legitimate ones. The Senate legislators interpret this rule unambiguously: everyone, but it's any health care professional who might have met... and in fact today everyone can meet, as our masks prove. We can meet tonight... If we are health workers, then any patient can infect us, and that gives us the title to have a claim to the state. And we, the state, just can't afford it. However, we are committed to improving health care as soon as possible and giving all of this... And I hope... Here the marshal cares about those who ride in ambulances, those whose work and labor have not yet been noticed. I hope they get that money, too. That is why this provision is so flexible and gives the minister the opportunity to take into account all those who are in need. I firmly believe that the Minister of Health, as intended, At least the one we have, Members, will be able to allocate these funds as soon as possible to these allowances. For all those who... This is an incredible sacrifice... Let me stress once again, we do not realize how much effort today involves working in hospitals, the efforts of those who help those who have been deprived of contact for nine months... Covid's patients have even been deprived of contact with their immediate family. It means that all the responsibilities, from feeding to, so to speak, washing, belong to this staff now. Except there's a lot of these patients in the wards, so the responsibilities are multiplied. That is why these people must be compensated for their hard work as soon as possible. Fear... the need for this bill was due to one thing: there were no doctors. No one predicted there'd be a pandemic. We were not prepared for this, no country in the world was prepared for this, so solutions needed to be prepared as soon as possible, which would enable emergency assistance and solutions to the immediate problems. We solve these problems temporarily, and the symbol for this is the National Stadium converted into a hospital. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Don't say anything anymore because it's really...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u46	Thank you very much. Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, I am simply devastated by your statements, above all as a physician, as a doctor who has to return to his hospital because patients with COVID are already everywhere. I'm not gonna comment on that because I can see that you don't understand what's going on downstairs. You're talking about the front line, that they're just covid troops, and it's just not. Right now, everyone, but it's every health worker who works with a covid patient. Here are some examples of our colleagues from the POZ. They are also burdened with work a little differently because they operate in the teleporad system. You can't work in the teleporad system at the hospital, we have to take the patient, swab him, heal his other diseases. At the time of intake, this patient is negative, and after 2 days it is positive, so then you have to pass it on to the so-called. a covid unit, previously one-named. And everyone, from the salon, the nurses, to the paramedic who brought this patient in, works with the covid patient. So the differentiation of employees... That has been mentioned before, but you don't get it at all. What you're saying is derogating all the doctors, all the doctors. I will no longer refer to the novel of this law, because I can only say so much: who gives and receives, he is in hell rude. Now that we're creating new covid troops, we're trying to work things out with the voivods so that patients can help with all the diseases, because they also have associated diseases, and COVID, and they're dying. Do you know what the balance of deaths against the countries of Europe is? And, of course, at the end... First you're gonna make us heroes, you're gonna say we're on the front line, and then you're gonna accuse us, you're gonna say we're the ones responsible for these deaths. That's how it's gonna be. That's why I'm completely I don't agree with your statement. And the fact that the state differentiates the medical environment in the name of the principle of division and rule... When we have an internal conflict in this difficult situation, because we are already on the verge of endurance, it will simply be easier for you to proceed over another legal crap, because it cannot be called laws. Instead of motivating us, supporting us in the fight against the pandemic, you are demotivating us. But we won't. When we were creating, for example. At my hospital, the covid ward, that's the last thing the doctors said, the nurses, was money. We want to survive in health and treat patients, and you're only talking about money. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: There you go...]] [[Thank you.]] Our job... [[Miss...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, are you still talking because here... please.]] I just want to ask you a question. Do you think that now the doctors who bring patients to hospitals work in the S.R., the emergency rooms, don't heal patients from COVID? Please speak as an MEP, and maybe that's how we'll get along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u48	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u49	Thank you, senator, for confirming what I said. You used exactly the argument I'm talking about, what I think. The novel was based on it. You said the senator, it's right that every health worker Today it is exposed to coronavirus infection and everyone deserves this supplement. And precisely because everyone, this granting to all equals will be discrimination against those who have so far received nothing, and the preference of those who have already received these allowances, with knowledge, the consent of the Senate and Parliament, the Minister, the President. It would be discrimination, we would differentiate those doctors who have already received, and those who do exactly the same kind of work and have not yet received this supplement. Only that, Mrs. Senator, we're different, that we want not to share, but equalize everyone who's at the station. That's why I thank you. You confirmed, as a senator, as a doctor, what gave rise to this submission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u50	Mrs. Senator... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: You misunderstood me.]] Senator, I was just about to ask you if you wanted to ask any more questions. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: I think it doesn't make sense, Mrs. Marshal, because we don't understand each other here. Thank you.]] Thank you. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u51	Mrs. Marshal, I don't have a question, I have a motion. If I can bet like this I feel that this debate has become barren and does not bring anything. There's a minister in the court who wasn't at the Health Committee meeting. Senators, if you have any questions, please refer them to the Minister, because I don't think we'll find anything new here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u52	Are you filing a formal application, Senator? [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Yes, formal application.]] [[But I've already volunteered, Mrs. Marshal.]] There are two more senators on the list, Senator Wojciech Necessary and Senator Magdalena Kochan. Senator Beata Małecka-Libera filed a formal application. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll take the view that the list of questions has been closed. [[Thank you very much.]] There's no objection. There are two more senators who will ask questions. Senator Wojciech Necessary. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I have been moved by your concern for hospital staff. The Member even used the phrase "washing" here. Well, it's really touching. I will extend the thought of the Member here. There are other halls that clean up the floors of vomit or the blood of patients from COVID and you're taking the money right now. Don't be so moved, because it's a Pharisee. To move and take money at the same time. Mr... [[On what grounds does the senator say so?]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Member, the senator asks a question, please wait.]] [[Let him make the thesis.]] Mr. Speaker, you say so. [[But...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Member, please wait until the senator has finished asking the question, please.]] Just refrain from saying things that you're not a professional for. You don't know what this job looks like, and you're trying to put on a man's robe for discussion or something. At the same time, you are the representative of those who collect the money due to people who are heroes today. Mr President, I don't understand why you're defending this at all. What's the intention? Why is it written in this bill that people led by the voivode are to receive money? It's unconstitutional. If you care so much, and if you were convinced it was the minister who was going to point out the person... That's what it's gonna bring down to, that only the minister's gonna point out who's owed the money and who's not. And there shouldn't be anything in this bill at all. You shouldn't write about people pointed out by the voivode, nothing about that should be here. And then it would indeed be so that it would, of course, be unfair, but although it would be in line with the constitution. Now you deliberately want to break the constitution. Well, that's okay. Mr. President, you say the system is powerful. You're kidding. The system is completely inefficient. I agree with Małecka-Libera here that discussing with you... If you're using the words "excellent system," then you don't know what's going on in hospitals at all. And that's why discussing with you is perhaps pointless. But I'm gonna ask you one question after all. Tell me... I'll tell you the story of your life. Please don't tell me that's not in this bill because that's what you're changing. Does the supplement belong to midwives and gynecologists who are taking the patient to the hospital because they are giving birth? They don't know that the patient has COVID, then it turns out that she is, the baby is being delivered, the baby is being born and the woman is being taken care of. Do they deserve money or not? Answer that question. I don't know if you know what the bill says. But do you think they deserve the money? Is it fair not to give them and to give the doctor 200 PLN per hour, or 4,000 800 PLN per shift in the National Hospital ER where he did not receive anyone? According to the bill you're introducing, midwives and gynecologists in the delivery room aren't supposed to get these additives. Is that fair? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u54	Obviously, that's not fair. And as far as justice is concerned, point one, on which the senator believes It's a rhetorical question. I don't expect an answer. That Members have bad will? And on what grounds does the senator think the minister has bad will? I'll repeat this for the second time, Mr. Senator, you deserve it because it's human to err. The point is that the halls, and all those who have not yet been included in these additions, can have them equally. Full agreement that everyone is at risk, but not everyone is working in these departments, not all of them have been de facto ordered to work. Their role is therefore stressed. Because in this situation, it would be to discriminate against those doctors who were sent away without having any... just these doctors would suddenly be fired and refuse to work. The point is, we don't have enough doctors. Is it the Members' fault? Perhaps so. I, let me remind you, I was a member of the Civic Platform. And I believe that then the Civic Platform ruined health services, for example by reducing recruitment to medical departments, even by means of the reform being carried out in a way that led to the situation that the greatest opponent of this reform, today the MEP, would stop criticizing the Minister, who had a lot of good will and intensive effort to reform, but in my opinion did not have political facilities that wanted to bear the costs, big costs, reforms of health services... I remind you that the platform came to power at that time after the protests... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Member, could you answer the senator's question? Because he asked...]] The question wasn't about the submission, so I understand that... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: The question was whether on the basis of... I can remind you of it. On the basis of this bill, after this amendment, will the gynecologist and midwife receive an allowance? That was the question.]] I don't think so, but experts should answer this question for a very simple reason. If I'm going to the dentist, I can infect him, too. If I take a test, and the next day I get infected, I can infect a dentist doctor, I can infect a nurse, I can infect anyone, I can infect even... That's why we have masks. However, there are doctors, midwives, saloons and all the medical staff working with the sick. And they're doing it not on the basis that there's a risk of infection, just on the basis of certainty. They help them with the certainty that they may be infected. That is why we oppose giving everyone exactly the same money. If everyone gets exactly the same money, then those who are on the front line will get nothing else. Their work will in no way be honored if everyone, regardless of the degree of risk they take... And why should I, as a Member, assess this risk? Let them judge the experts. If you feel like you're experts... I think the minister will be grateful for your suggestions. But the proposal that everyone gets the same amount is simply unfair, because it excludes those whom the state and we, as applicants, claim. First of all, they should be rewarded. I'm gonna go back to another story because he's very important. The Civic Platform came to power on a wave of protests in health care, but it did not take the effort. And that's why the minister was the prime critic of the former Minister, Ewa Kopacz, so that the criticism that began to spill in medical environments and which began to undermine the credibility of the government... That's why the prime critic took the place of the Minister. If we're replacing someone with a major critic, that means we're admitting a mistake. The condition for acceptance was to stop criticizing. If we're gonna hit each other in the chest, please, but let's do it together. I as former Platform politician, state as present Platform politicians let's hit each other in the chest together. But assigning the government responsibility for the fact that this system was not prepared for a pandemic is simply irrational. To the pandemic Okay, I'll say it again. No health care system is prepared. We're acting ad hoc. I think that these assessments are very unfair. Assigning such intentions to anyone is simply a violation beyond the limits of good tact. Let's not say no to anybody... This cynicism is not justified. I do not deny you good intentions, I agreed with most of you. I disagreed about the reasons for the whole political background, but we agree about the need to help. I see no reason to accuse anyone of not wanting to help. These words are hurtful, they are brutally untrue. The State should lean on how to work with the Minister, not how to wage war with the Minister. Well, we can fight a political war. But war with the minister? I think he needs help. If you don't think you're doing well, it's all the more important to help. If you have other submissions, let's discuss the arguments. Why should I listen to the epithets about myself? Do you really think there's any parliamentarian in the Sejm who doesn't want to help those who risk their lives and health who are around sick beds and who are helping? Perhaps they will save the lives of one of us, because each of us is just as vulnerable and can go to this hospital. I don't understand. It's very unfair and very hurtful. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u55	The last question you ask is Senator Magdalena Kochan. I'm saying last because the list of senators questioning this point on Senator Magda Kochan ends. Senator, please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u56	Thank you very much. Am I audible, Mr. Marshal? Can you hear me? [[The senator is not only audible, but also visible.]] Thank you very much. Minister... I address the Member, the Minister is not... We have a Deputy Minister, but funds and regional development. In answer to many questions, you proved that you could not be a co-author or author of these records. And you can't, or at least you shouldn't, represent those who actually wrote this bill. To answer the questions of one of the senators, you admitted, de facto, who is the author of this law, and yet you presented yourself to the upper chamber of the Polish Parliament and you are not telling the truth. You're not telling the truth, you're missing the truth by representing these, among others. themselves who didn't write the laws. Shouldn't you consider this? It would be worthwhile to learn from such situations. Your resignation? Untrue witness before the Senate of the Republic of Poland? Aren't you ashamed? [[I understand that this is the senator's question to the rapporteur.]] [[If you don't mind, I'd like to ask... what is this untruthful witness supposed to be? Well, I don't get it.]] It is to rely on this, Mr President, simply in the world, that you represent the Members who have written this bill. This submission is parliamentary, and explaining, in answer to one of the senators' questions, you said that the real author of this bill is the government. Therefore, the Minister or Deputy Minister of this Government should present this law in the Senate. That would be true, that is true. You cannot co-author this bill because you do not know the records of what you present before the Senate. [[I understand that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u57	Senator, I'd really like to ask you questions. As in the case of the rapporteur, who is extremely far removed in his answers from the questions concerning the law, wandering into historiosophical discussions on health ministers from 10 years ago... I allow it because I am in favour of a rather free exchange of views in Parliament. I'd ask you all the time to ask specific questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u58	I will answer that question, although it is illegal and results from some abuse, due to a lack of logical reasoning. [[I would very much ask you to refrain from abusive remarks about your interlocutors.]] I didn't tell you who the author was. I was talking about why the ministry isn't the author. That doesn't mean... Well, that was my answer. Sorry, but formal logic applies to every educated Pole, for example due to Lviv-Warsaw traditions. The Lviv-Warsaw School was a world leader in formal logic. It's a logical conclusion, a causal link. I said that the Ministry was not the author, because this would involve the need to proceed in a mode that precludes the possibility of a rapid submission of a project. It is the Members who have put forward this proposal, but you, as a parliamentarians, should know that there is no such thing as copyright on draft laws. Members do indeed use experts, they do not have to write the laws themselves. The state of parliamentarians probably also sign projects that are not authors. If it weren't, everyone in Parliament would be required to go through a legislative application, a legal application. It's not like that. [[Mr. Speaker, slowly...]] I'm not an author, I don't have copyright in respect of any draft laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u59	I have the impression, Mr. President, that I am talking about this because of the respect for the High House, the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Senator Kochan's question was that you lacked the knowledge of the bill you are referring to. [[No, Mr. Marshal. I'm sorry, but I've been accused of lying.]] That's one thing to understand... [[I've been accused of lying. I understand that this is the result of a misinterpretation of what I said.]] The conclusions that senators draw from your ignorance about the bill you're referring to... It's senators' law. The fact that you don't know... [[No, the charge...]] ...what he refers to is a statement of objective truth. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u60	But the senator doesn't accuse me of not knowing something, just lying about who the real author of the bill is. I was gonna make a declaration like that. First of all, I have not made such a declaration, and it is simply dishonest to accuse me of lying. It's a lack of integrity.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u61	I think that the Member had the opportunity to refer to this statement... [[Mr. Marshal, I'm back.]] ...and that's what you did. [[If there are no further questions...]] There are no more questions for you because there can't be any more questions. [[Thank you kindly.]] Thank you so much for your answer. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] I have a question for the representative of the government: would you like to take the floor on the matter that we are discussing? I would like to assure the senators that, after this speech, of course, it will be possible to ask questions to the representative of the government. You're welcome, Minister. Would you like to... I understand you want to speak. Please, Mr. Sławomir Gadomski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u62	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am not standing on this platform with a sense of comfort, because I remember that we worked many hours on the mother bill, on the covid bill. We also spent quite a bit of time here in the Senate for, I remember, a substantive and constructive discussion. Well, that's how I judge her, but that's how you judge her. I remember the nice words from some of the senators. The work on this law was carried out in extraordinary mode, in really accelerated mode. On the one hand, this was expected, as a result of what was the status of this law, how important issues it regulated. On the other hand, it may be that, and this is the conclusion of the procedure, that not all amendments made are amendments which could be accepted which could be considered possible or effective for implementation. During the work on that law, the government expressed... I personally expressed a clear position on these amendments that we can say today, we are debating, talking about this amending act. That position was negative. I have tried to convince the senators, and I really hope that the reason why these amendments are risky is that they should not be adopted by that law. On the one hand, the amendment... Maybe I'll start with the one that raises less doubts, which is to increase the hospital's lump sum by 15%. Already then I pointed out that this amendment carries a huge risk of some injustice in the system. Today, you have repeatedly talked about the division of doctors, the sharing of doctors, the sharing of the environment. Well, that's what this amendment was doing, this amendment distinguished the hospitals from the flat-rate hospitals, said that to hospitals whose income from the NFZ is based on a roar, the president of the National Health Fund will direct 15% More. There was no mention of oncology hospitals, which have a different funding system, there was no mention of clinical hospitals, which are largely based on highly specialised procedures, which are financed in a different way than flat rates, there was no mention of many other areas of medicine not financed in the form of lump sums. I asked the High House to do so, I asked the senators to do so, and I pointed out that at the time, I said that the amendment in question carries a certain amount of injustice. Well, unfortunately, my argument has not come to the favor of the High House. As did the arguments related to the system of remuneration of medical personnel involved in the fight against COVID have not been welcomed. At the time, I made it clear that what is written in the covid act, in the mother's law, only applies to posted workers. I argued why. Because a whole bunch of employees directly involved in the fight against COVID is and can be financed... that these increased salaries can be financed by the health minister's command system. From this speaker I made a declaration that immediately after the adoption of that law, the Minister of Health will change the order and increase the salaries of employees directly involved in the fight against COVID to the level as presented in the draft covid act, i.e. to 200%. To close, I hope, the catalogue of questions, I will say that this order has already been signed by the Minister of Health, this order is valid, it was signed on 1 November, i.e. before the Act enters into force. And this command concerns precisely those groups of employees who are directly fighting COVID. This command is broad, and it speaks in particular of the categories of hospitals to which this stream of money may be directed, where the lack of an amendment tabled by the senators is regulated, which, unfortunately, was later accepted by the Members of the Sejm. This clearly guarantees the financing of increased salaries. To say today that these salaries are not increased is, as I understand it, just some political argument. Talking about the fact that medical rescue is not funded either. 'Cause I'm paying attention to the whole medical emergency area. Medical rescue teams, hospital rescue personnel... This is what we discussed in the Senate. You indicated that such persons should be subject to this system. I agree, they should be and subject. They should and they should be. Because the Minister's order to the President of the National Health Fund regulates this and guarantees these double salaries. It also gives it to laboratory diagnostics who are employed in hospital laboratories included in the list of COVID laboratories. I am convinced that this is exactly what the High House expected us to discuss at the Health Committee meeting, that this is exactly what we discussed in this Chamber. It seems and doesn't even seem, but I am convinced that we have realized these expectations that we all cared that we didn't care during this multi-hour discussion to direct money to doctors, nurses, diagnostics and all medical personnel who are not directly involved in the fight against COVID. Because we know very well that such groups are also, that there are such providers of benefits, perhaps not hospital... Perhaps the discussion about hospitals as if dominated the whole way of thinking, we think about where we are dealing with COVID, but there is a whole group of medical entities that are hard to believe that they are directly involved in the fight against COVID. So this amendment and the one adopted by the two chambers of parliament is precisely this system of remuneration of those directly involved unfortunately completely reverses. For my part, I regret it very much because it seems to me that we have really done everything we can to make up for the work of this staff involved. This was served by amending the covid bill or rather by the covidov law, this mother law, and this was served by what I declared, or the order of the Minister of Health. And this is also, in my opinion, an example of some responsibility for these projects that are being submitted. This amendment on 15% increasing hospital lump sums is a clear example here It does not apply to all actors involved in the fight against COVID, it does not apply to all entities providing benefits to patients. I will stress this with all my power: it does not specifically apply to oncology hospitals. If the senators feel that this is the way it's supposed to be... Well, I'm having second thoughts. I do not suspect the wrong intentions, rather I understood the meaning of this amendment, but its shape, its content has distorted, I think, the intentions that you wanted to achieve. Mr. Marshal, I am, of course, open to questions. I will try to address these difficult issues, because I know how sensitive they are, but also once again I call for a rational view of the actions we are taking, in particular of this recommendation and the increase in salaries that were made on 1 November. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u63	Thank you very much, Minister. I can assure you that the questions will be answered, because I can see that the senators are eager to ask these questions. The first question will be asked by Senator Jolanta Hibner. In remote mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u64	Hello! [[Good morning, Senator.]] Good morning. Minister, I'd like to get back to the case, well, important. We received a bill from you signed by Marshal Terletsky. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 says: in the Act of 28 October on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19... And here's the journal of set, position and... three dots. Please give me the number of this item, because I'd like to see it. I also have this question: is it possible, legally, to correct a law that has not yet entered into force, to be published in the Official Journal of the Laws? This is one of those legal questions. Next case. I would like to know if doctors and other people working with COVID patients who have been sent to quarantine will be subject to an additional salary, as will those who are at the National Stadium. I would also like to ask if, under the aid scheme, the European Fund for Reconstruction, money could be spent in the health sector, for example. For vaccines, for equipment, for other things. And if we give up this fund, are there other sources of funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u65	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u66	Thank you. Dear Senator, it is difficult for me to enter into certain legal nuances, but I understand that since the High House is discussing this law, both Sejm legislators and Senacci legislators have found it possible to amend or amend a law that has not yet been announced in the Official Journal of the Laws. I have the overwhelming impression that, since Parliament's Second Chamber is already dealing with this, the legislators, both the Sejm and the Senacci, have leaned on this issue and, as you can see, have given the green light to such work. As for the National Reconstruction Programme, it is me, the Senator, who has great hopes for this programme, and I don't feel that we have given up on this program in any way. Moreover, not only do we continue, but we have been constantly, for several months, in the process of building this program To define priorities, to define further actions. The Ministry of Health is very active in this project. In the context of a separate group dealing with health issues, such work is ongoing. Such works take place in continuous mode. And the issues relating to the adoption of the budget of the European Union, I think, have not affected this work to any extent. I can declare that a meeting with representatives of the European Commission is scheduled for 2 December. So, as I understand it, here too, the European Union agenda has in no way abandoned the process of this project together with us, together with the ministries of funds, politics, development, together with the ministries involved. So, for my part, I declare that the action programme, the health support programme Not only as part of the National Reconstruction Programme, but also as part of other options... We have been working hard for several months on another EU programme React, a programme in which we are planning to significantly increase the allocation of EU funds by the end of 2023. What's important is that I want to be precise here, and I want to say it numerically. That we are talking here about the discussed yet, because ultimately unconfirmed, the amount of more than PLN 2 billion 500 million for this programme, which will in fact be implemented within 2 years. I would like to point out that the entire budget of the Minister of Health for the Operational Programme So here we're talking about negotiating and discussing a project a little smaller, but for two years. And these are talks that are independent of the planning of the next operational programmes for the 2021-2027 perspective. I can also assure you that we have not given up this work, we continue it, we are in constant contact with both the Ministry of Funds and the European Commission on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u67	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u68	I'm really sorry, but I wasn't talking about the program. I was talking about the Reconstruction Fund. The one that is currently foreseen for the fight against COVID. I'm not talking about health programs, I'm not talking about things so far, I'm talking specifically about the Reconstruction Fund, which will only be subject to the procedure at the moment. Do you think that giving up this fund is good for Poland at this moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u69	Thank you very much, Senator, for clarifying your question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u70	Mrs. Senator, I have the impression that you'll excuse me. I can confirm that, of course. I think we're talking about the same thing. The Fund for Reconstruction proposed by the European Union under the broad instrument, known as the RFF, is being translated into our National Programme for Reconstruction in Poland. And I think we're talking about the same thing and that my answer to the question was about this program. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u71	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u72	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The first of the questions... Here I would ask for a written reply, because you certainly do not have this data here. It is a matter that has already been addressed. Namely, or... Oh, it's turned into a bubble, I'd call it propaganda. But can a law be amended in a situation where it has not yet entered into force? I would ask for such a statement from 1997 onwards, i.e. since the entry into force of the new constitution, broken down by terms of office, how many laws were amended during the vacathio legis, i.e. before the entry into force. And in particular, 'cause it's going to be another group, I'm sure it's narrower than what the laws were. updated before publication. The first category is certainly wider, the second category is narrower. Divided into terms right now. The point is to have an image of what the other side was doing. [[Thank you very much, Mr...]] The second question, Mr Marshal, is the same question that I asked the applicant's representative, Mr, about the date of entry into force. Well, they have to enter into force or they have to be published on the same date, i.e. the amended act and the amending act we're talking about. Well, that's what the Government Legislating Center needs to take care of. But here's the question: wouldn't it be safer to change the law, the law we're talking about, to end the article? 2 in another piece of content, namely that the Act enters into force on the day following... i.e. on the date of entry into force of the Act as amended by Article. 1. Then it would sound unambiguous and there would be no problems of interpretation or negligence related to possible problems of this nature.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u73	Thank you very much, Senator. As far as the senator's first question is concerned, it is difficult for the Minister of Health to expect statistical data on the legislative process in practically the entire history of the free Republic. I can only assure the Minister that we will not consider this to be a despot to the House if you do not know the answer to this question. But you're welcome... [[I have a request to pass this on to RCL.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u74	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm trying to know. A lot of health statistics, but unfortunately here, Senator, I have to disappoint you, and I'm not able to answer that. Moreover, it seems to me that the Ministry is not at all able to give it, and if the senator is interested, then of course the answer can be given by the Government Legislative Centre. In view of the second question, it is also difficult for me to take a clear stand. This is a legislative issue, and Parliament's legislators have not debated such a thread, if I recall. I think it might be worth asking the Senate Legislative Office to analyze this point. In my personal opinion, this provision, which concerns the entry into force and at the same time the possibility of a certain queuing mode by the Government's Legislative Centre, will eliminate the risk, but it is only my opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u75	Thank you... [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, there's literally one sentence...]] Please, please, Mr. Senator, of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u76	I'm asking, but at the same time, I'm kind of paying attention to making sure that by some, I say, unhappy negligence doesn't happen in a situation where just a change act is broken. Well, one of those laws, which the amending law repeals, has kind of a retroactive effect, since September 5th, gives some expetition, a certain right to the law, a fairly large group of people. So if this amending act comes into force too late, one day too late, the law will become due.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u77	Would the Minister like to refer to this... I thank the senator. As I understand it, we are ending this thread, actually a thread in which health protection is very important in terms of constitutional problems. We have even heard an interesting thesis that the bill enters into force on the day on which it enters into force. I'm sure that's an interesting and innovative approach. The next question will be asked by Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. However, I would like to start by regretting how the rapporteur was treated here. Every Senator rapporteur, every rapporteur, every minister, corresponds to his own knowledge, and accusing a lie, accusing a bad will, the grunting on the other side, the epithets that were, is grabbing your head... [[They don't have any knowledge at all.]] This is all a manifestation of nothing but a lack of culture, in my opinion. Minister, I have three questions. If, because they relate to precise data, the Minister will not be able to answer, I will possibly ask for written answers. First question. Well, the loudest ones are those who, when they were in charge, didn't have much to offer in health care. I would like to ask what expenditure on health care was like before 2015 and from 2015 until today. I would like to ask what it is in the opinion of the Minister. Didn't the fact that before the pandemic period we entered this year with a budget without a deficit cause that now we can offer much more in the field of health care? I'd like to ask. And that's such a precise question, so maybe I'll ask for an answer in writing. How many funds have already been allocated to health care to combat pandemics. So I'm gonna ask for that data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u79	Thank you very much, Senator. Let me refer to your comments on the non-cultural behaviour in this House. As long as I am in session, I try to respect two essential elements of parliamentarians as such: freedom of expression, even far-reaching, and culture. And as long as I am sitting in this House, e.g. A situation in which someone would step out in the stands, Mr. Senator, and belied their citizens from the parliamentary stand, saying that they were a worse sort, would be unacceptable to me. If anyone in this House, Senator, had raised his hand in a gesture known as a very vulgar gesture, it would also have met with my reaction as a marshal in the proceedings, because I consider, as you have said, that a certain sanctity of our institution within the meaning of respect for norms and respect for interlocutors is a very important element in that we all feel well in democracy. And I would like to assure you that I will always take care of and strive to the extent that my senses and skills allow me to comply with such standards in this House. Now, please take the floor of the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u80	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Senator, I will try to answer all the questions with the help of certain reports I receive. If the senator is interested, then the general amounts, the amounts that I'm going to round up, I can, of course, clarify. Briefly. I can give you this data in 2015 because I am able to verify it quickly, it was about 70 billion... maybe a little more, maybe about 72 billion PLN. This was the combined expenditure on health care in 2015. The budget we adopted for 2020 for the current year was about PLN 107 billion. By adopting the budget, we already knew that these expenditures would be higher, because the additional funds to increase the National Health Fund's backup fund launched in the end of 2019 guaranteed that they could already have been 2 billion more. They were not reflected in the calculation of expenditures, because they could not be taken into account at the time of budget adoption. So it was about 109 billion zlotys. There were increased expenditures during the year before the pandemic broke out, and this even increased this budget to more than 110 billion PLN. Yeah, and the pandemic caused, of course, the health expenditures to increase. But I wouldn't connect those cases. I'm more of a colloquially speaking, as a separate pocket, because it's known that these resources go for one purpose. Although probably equipment, which also under this broad support project is provided from budget resources, from EU funds, from funds at the disposal of the Minister, and in particular from the funds of the Marshals of the voivodships... Well, these are measures that will remain in the health care system and will obviously serve a little bit of services after the end of the pandemic. With regard to the settlement of projected expenditure intended exclusively for the fight against COVID, the plan of the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund, which was dedicated, separate and available to the Minister of Health, provided that for 2020 it would be PLN 10 billion. We estimate, according to today's forecast, that we will use this amount, which does not include the purchase of vaccines... The funding of vaccines is carried over to 2021, although this is not certain, because the first delivery of vaccines is expected to reach us at the end of December. But without including vaccine funding, it will be about PLN 8 billion. We will bear such expenses by the end of the year only and exclusively under the COVID fund. We predict that for next year, until June 'Cause that's how we're predicting spending under this fund now. It will amount to almost PLN 9 billion. This includes the really important expenditure related primarily to the vaccine, but also expenditure with increased salaries, those I have talked about, e.g. under the order of the Minister of Health, or other expenditure for the maintenance of temporary hospitals, for the increased number of covid beds, etc. So we estimate that for six months it will amount to almost PLN 9 billion. But I would point out that this changes, that quite often these estimates change. Some new challenges, some new projects, some new actions in this area raise financial issues. Did the lack of a deficit affect the possibilities? Well, of course, yes. It has made it possible, above all, to set up this fund in an express way. I have not yet stated that the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund is a basic source of funding, but in the early period of the pandemic we used special provisions, special provisions available primarily to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration, so-called. disaster reserves. We have also used other special reserves, those available to the Prime Minister, and we are still using them. We used the investment and reserve resources at the disposal of the Minister of Health. So I think I can try to answer this question in writing and clarify it. But, as I'm saying, there's about 8 billion out of the COVID fund alone, and I'm thinking, with a little bit of history, reminding myself that there's probably about two billion out of these other sources. And I am convinced that the budgetary situation has helped to mobilise these funds quickly and effectively. And to the third question, about the fund itself, I answered in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u81	Thank you very much, Minister. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u82	I would like to thank you for your factual answers and ask that, in response to this first and third question, such detailed calculations be presented to me in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u83	Thank you, Senator. This, as always, has been noted and a written reply will be given. I ask you to ask Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u84	Wait a minute, I'm just gonna go back to my seat... I'm sorry about the mix-up, but it's just really cold in here, and that's why I switched. Minister, I would like to refer to the words you have said that the Senate Health Committee has passed the law and is proceeding with this law. Well, I don't quite agree that we gave her the green light because we gave her the opinion to keep this project running, and we are in favour of rejecting this project. That's the first line. The second point I want to raise is that the discussion of this law is still really about substantive matters, this salary for employees, its height, etc., and the clou is completely different. Namely in my opinion, both the mother law, the one on 28 October, and this present law are 2 draft laws, 2 laws which are contrary to the constitution. And this is the first, most important issue that actually puts both of these projects together. My question, Minister, is this. It takes about eight months to fight the coronavirus, a very hard fight against an unknown opponent. I am aware of many things that we did not know at first, also the Ministry was in a difficult situation. But time is ticking. This law of 28 October is really the first law, which is entirely dedicated to health care and medical workers. Please tell me: why aren't this law or any other legislation on medical workers, health care, government projects? Isn't the Ministry of Health really able to produce a bill that would be after a consultation that would be consistent with what the environment expects, just needs to feed on the MPs? Please answer why it is so.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u85	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u86	Thank you. Senator, a brief reference to this contradiction with the constitution. As far as I remember our work in both the Health Committee and in plenary, such charges did not arise when we applied for the mother's bill, and somehow today I am not identifying the provisions of this mother's law contrary to the constitution. I also do not identify the provisions of this law that we are amending as provisions that are not in accordance with the Constitution. I understand that perhaps the senator refers to the procedure of the bill's procedure, but forgive me that, as a representative of the health department, I am not able to answer the question, in particular, of the question that Senator Czerwiński was talking about, whether it is possible to amend an unannounced bill or not. I assume that it is possible, since we are proceding it and since this was the position of legislators in the Sejm, and as I understand it, it was probably also consulted with the Government Legislative Center. As for government projects... Well, the senator knows perfectly well, because I also said that the covid bill, the draft mother's bill, was obviously prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. From the very beginning, we have participated in preparatory work and work supporting the recasting of this law by both chambers of parliament. In no way did I evade at any of the points of this law, I did not hide from the fact that it was not a government project, but a parliamentary project. Absolutely, with full responsibility, I presented the government's position on this bill. It is known that the parliamentary mode has its privileges. This procedure is obviously faster. If I remember correctly, all of them, or the vast majority of parliamentarians and Members and Senators, expressed such an expectation that this bill, but not only that many covid laws should be dealt with in an extra-fast mode from the very beginning, not even in an immediate manner. I am convinced that the procedure for working on parliamentary projects guarantees such a procedure. I think these were not just expectations of the ruling party, but of all parliamentarians, often expressed. I've seen a few press conferences about it myself. Thank you. [[Senator Beata Małecka-Libera: Ad vocem.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u87	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator, an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u88	Thank you very much. I would like to say to the Minister that the mother law violates the constitution, violates the article. 32, which speaks of the principle of equality. This is not about proceding mode, it's about articles contained in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u89	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Necessary, who will do so remotely. [[Thank you very much.]] Excuse me, room 217. [[Yes, sir.]] Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to say first of all that I sympathise with the Minister's role that he must play here today. I think that if you're not entirely against your will, then you're probably reluctant to do it. Well, you've been put up against all the health professionals, and unfortunately you may turn out to be the face of a bill that will be proceded today, and I know from committee meetings that the Minister shows great understanding and reasonableness about health problems. Today, unfortunately, as I say, all I have to do is feel sorry for the Minister for the fact that in such a situation you have come to defend this law. The question I have... At the outset, a small commentary on the oncology hospital and this lump sum. The point of the lump sum is, of course, that the voivodships ordered the conversion of hospital units and the reception of covid patients, patients who were or were not... It was different. Of course, there are a lot of them today, just like in the last few months. At the same time, contracts of many branches are not carried out because there was a recommendation not to perform the operation. There's no blood, no anesthesiologists, anesthesiologists take care of covid patients, etc., etc. And it is known that the lump sum will not be made. We also know that costs have to be covered. At present, the cost of operating hospitals is often 80,90% of the cost of operating hospitals. The natural thing is that the valuation of benefits should be increased, we have already discussed this in the course of the work. Such an amendment was first tabled in the spring during the work on Shield 2.0. It was then proposed to arm the health care in such a shield, and we are now returning to it. In the spring it was known what would happen, only the greatest optimists thought it would be different. Today it all checks out. As for doctors from oncology hospitals and other hospitals, it is of course possible to appreciate them in a different way, it can be done differently, but it is obvious that the increase in the lump sum should occur. But that's okay. My questions are as follows. The first question: has the Ministry of Health's strategy changed and aren't all hospitals aimed at fighting COVID? At that time, indeed, their differentiation into little-video and covideoes were once one-named, etc. It would make sense. I know there's been another strategy since September. All the doctors, including family doctors, of course there are those who accept as part of the teleporade, and those who accept patients normally... I don't want to go into detail here anymore, but I'll mention the gynecological ward. He's not covid, but patients often turn out to be covid after giving birth, because everything happens during. Such a branch is not covered by any additions and will not, and it is known that he must, because the ministry's decision is that all hospitals are aimed at fighting COVID... So, has the strategy changed? Is it going to be that some departments are not supposed to receive covid patients, not take care of them, or is the strategy maintained? Because if it is, then you should pay. Second question. How, then, does the Ministry of Health imagine this lump sum? It is known that it is November, it is known how many lump sums of hospitals did not perform on individual branches, it is known that contracts are in force until the end of next six months. Whether the Ministry of Health imagines that the epidemic will pass on December 31st and next year hospitals will have to make up for these surgeries, these treatments and everything by the end of June, or maybe... I think now is the time that this decision should collapse. Of course, it's in that, so to speak, the amendment that we reject today, and it would be settled. But since we reject it, since the proposal to amend the law rejects the possibility of giving up these unenforced contracts, in short, these lump sums, what is the concept? When are the hospitals supposed to do this? How's that supposed to look? Well, it has to be, it's almost the end of the year, and hospitals don't know what to do. And the question I asked at the Health Committee, I then asked the Minister to gather information, perhaps the Minister has it. That is the question: how many branches so called. Slightly vibrant in Poland has stopped its activity since September this year because of the infection of staff? So how many real branches had to stop or limit their operations because there were so many infected personnel that they couldn't work? As we know, we're not gonna cover them with these extras right now. But how many such branches were there in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u91	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u92	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, thank you for your sympathy, but I don't think that's necessary, I think. Of course, as I said in the first sentence, I have no comfort in proceding this law, because, like all of you, I had the impression that we had finished our work about a month ago. But I stand here with some sense of responsibility, responsibility for providing objective information about the pay system in health care, the pay system related to COVID, the system for financing covid benefits. I really wouldn't want us to base... I think that the state, having a clear understanding of the system of remuneration and financing, knows how much nuances are involved in this, knows very well the actions taken by the Minister of Health, in particular those that provide the medical staff directly involved in the fight against COVID with additional salaries. To answer the question about the strategy for hospitals, I will remind you of the content of this recommendation, the content of this decision, which I already quoted in the Senate during the procedure of the mother's law. But I would also like to draw attention to a number of issues relating to the financing system. We can't create an image. It would, I think, be irresponsible from each side if we created such a picture. The fact that the pandemic has had a negative impact on the financing system of hospitals in Poland. At present, we are in a system where a hospital lump sum designated for hospitals for 2020 in no decision has been made to these hospitals at any time either by the Minister of Health or by the National Health Fund reduced or taken away. If the hospital lump sum for a given year in Hospital X was PLN 100 million, regardless of how many branches suspended their work, how much this entity was involved in maintaining the continuity of operations, the 100 million for 2020 was foreseen for it. We have put in place other mechanisms to ensure the liquidity of operators, in particular the liquidity of those entities where lump sums represent a slightly smaller part, i.e. the possibility of clearing benefits on the basis of such an algorithm of the twelfth. So we told these hospitals, you can settle this on the basis of your contract. October 2020 doesn't matter if you make a million, two million or five million, what matters is that if you had ten million in your contract, that's all you can count. Because we want to maintain the continuity of the operation of hospitals, we want to maintain continuous access to benefits in these entities. That's why we're introducing these financial mechanisms. Besides, I would like to remind you that this year a total of 3 price increases have been made to the hospital sector. First, before the pandemic, since 1 January, an increase in lump sums by around 3%, the second in April and the third, already exclusively linked to the prevention of the effects of COVID, i.e. an increase in lump sum hospitals by 3%, from 1 July 2020. I would also like to mention that yesterday Minister Niedzielski announced additional support mainly for oncology hospitals, those which are not, in principle, directly involved in the fight against COVID, but we are convinced... We know how much their baggage is responsible for oncology patients, but we also know that the level of costs has increased precisely in those centres that do not have flat-rate funding or have them to a very small extent. And there, due to another funding system, we have increased the valuation of oncology benefits based on the DiLO card by 3%. Also in the case of entities that comprehensively secure the treatment of the patient, which in our already processed nomenclature are entities performing a high quality provision, in particular a large number of surgical procedures... To these entities, due to the significant burden of responsibility for oncology patients today, we directed an additional 3% , primarily to ensure effective coordination of patients. Well, these are the measures we're sending to the actors. And we certainly don't take a dime from these entities. Of course, a challenge is the system of settlement of these benefits in the future, the system of calculation of lump sums for subsequent settlement periods. But in the sense of responsibility and being convinced that this is not an easy task, it is not clear that all hospitals in the country have similarly secured access to benefits for covid patients... First of all, we extended this settlement period by six months. So we're giving a chance to catch up by June next year. Is that gonna be possible or not? This year's holidays have shown that this is possible in an important way. Recently, at the meeting of the Sejm Committee on Health on Accessibility of Supplies, I presented data which clearly showed that in June, July and August there was a significant reflection of the number of benefits provided at each level of medical care. So I believe that, however, using also infrastructure capabilities, also how we are already prepared to function, to fight the COVID... I believe that this first half of the year is possible, difficult, but possible. In particular, in the case of those who did not close their doors, they did not use different pretexts to limit the availability of benefits, but really fought actively, I hope that this applies to the majority of the actors to maintain accessibility for patients. I would also like to stress that the implementation of the lump sum by mid-year was 47%. This also shows, however, that a huge number of entities, well, kept pace and after some turmoil in March and April really tried to accomplish what is called, that is to realize the benefits. As for the hospital strategy against COVID, it has obviously been modified. Well, we also can't say that all hospitals, all hospital beds were designed to fight COVID, because this is, I have the impression, some thought simplification. The structure of the actors involved in the fight against COVID, the 3-level structure, is further distinguished. Level 3 consists primarily of high-specialization centres which provide a broad catalogue of benefits to patients with COVID; level 2 can be said to include hospitals where patients with COVID are treated; level 1 includes hospitals that do not deal with COVID patients but have to designate some isolation sites, they need to implement certain procedures that will ensure that such patients are provided with assistance so that such patients can later be redirected to the second or third level hospitals. From here. I'm gonna say it again. The mandate of the Minister of Health shall secure the remuneration of medical staff in second and third degree hospitals, irrespective of the mother's law, in which we are actually only talking about posted workers, but this does not change the overall situation on the remuneration market. As far as the troops are concerned, Mr. Senator, if you'll excuse me, I don't have that analysis on me, I'll try to deliver it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Breja a question. The senator will ask you a question remotely. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u94	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, referring to the questions of the PIS colleagues about statistical data, about questions such as more general questions concerning health care condition, I have the question: is it true? I'll ask for facts and concrete data 20 000 hospital sites were removed in 2016 and 2020? As far as hospital locations are concerned, I asked all NFZ departments about hospital locations between 31 March 2020 and 31 August 2020, i.e. during the first wave of pandemics, and during the summer period, when health care had to be prepared for a possible second wave. And here's my second question: why wasn't hospital facilities increased in the summer of 2020? According to data, in most voivodships... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...March until August 31st this year. Third question... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm so sorry. We had trouble connecting with the senator. If you'd be kind enough to repeat the words, I suppose we all agree, the third question, because that's when the silence in our speakers fell.]] The third question is... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[A voice from the room: It's some unlucky question, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Well, believe me, I'll ask the technical services here if we can do anything about it.]] [[Senator's voice: It's the Senator who's the one who's not in range.]] I've been reporting this problem. [[We haven't heard the senator's third question.]] [[Senator, why don't you turn off the camera?]] [[Here's a suggestion. I'm sorry I'm gonna let the senator turn off the camera.]] Good. Can you hear me better now? [[Now you can hear the senator.]] I'm very sorry because I've been reporting this case to computer scientists... This is not my problem or the problem of range, unfortunately this is the problem of the device. The third question concerns statistics covering covid beds. Do all the covid beds you provide have access to the oxygen system? In other words, are they so-called. oxygen beds? The fourth question concerns the modernisation fund for hospitals, which was to be created, was promised by Prime Minister Morawiecki. Will the hospital modernisation fund finally be set up, or will it end up as a subfund for the Medical Fund, which in turn, according to President Duda's promise, was intended to be entirely dedicated to the treatment of rare diseases among children and oncology diseases? The last question concerns the COVID-19 Action Team. Is it true that this team was formally created by you only on 4 September 2020? And if so, why wasn't this team called up earlier? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u95	Thank you very much, Senator. I apologize again, and I regret the difficulties you encountered in these calls, but all your questions have come to us, and I believe the Minister is ready to answer them.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u96	Mr. Marshal, thank you for believing in my skills. These questions go far beyond the scope of any of the laws on which today's sitting is concerned, but I will try to answer as much as I can, and if the senator expects more detailed explanations, we will, of course, give them in writing. Maybe I'll start with the hospital beds and that number of 20,000 hospital beds. With full responsibility I can say that this number of net beds has not been removed. What does "netto" mean? You often use the number of beds closed, but as I have shown before, probably also at the meeting of the Senate Health Committee, new beds are started at the same time, beds are retrained, beds are created in different ranges. So we really need to talk about not ending beds as such, but actually reducing or increasing the entire potential of beds in the health sector. Forgive me for not answering that question. However, during last year's budget debate, I showed such data for one year. If memory serves me right, I was talking about 150 net beds, which in fact in a given year in the entire hospital sector the total number of beds decreased. But I also want to point out one thing and a little bit like I'm going back to the discussion. You are all senators, as well as the opposition senators, talking about the fact that hospital beds do not cure. I remember these slogans from September, October: Why create so many hospital covid beds? Beds don't heal, staff heals, she needs to be taken care of. So maybe I would like to consider the level of hospital security, the level of patient protection not by the prism of the number of beds, but by the prism of the number of beds effectively used in the system. I would like to point out that in the system the average bed cover is about 65%. From a financial point of view, from a patient's safety point of view, it is less than the optimal level, because in a good case, most hospitals can work in a safe way with a bedding of more than 80% or about 80%. This enables and rotation of patients, and disinfection of these surfaces, and preparation of these hospital sites. Therefore, there is a cushion throughout the system that indicates that this bed base can be managed a little more effectively. You also asked, Mr. Senator, why we didn't start extra covid beds in the summer of 2020. I have already partially answered this question, speaking of the scale of the pandemic, about the scale of the predictions not only of the government, but of many, many experts, epidemiologists, which we had in the summer of 2020. None of the forecasts of many institutions, independent of the Ministry of Health, independent of the government, to be clear... these forecasts were about the scale of growth, the scale of the diseases several times smaller than the one we're actually dealing with. Why haven't we made these beds in the summer? Because summer was the time when we were just doing our little dimple on access to a little bit of care. It was a time when actually we, and many directors of medical entities, were wondering how to ensure continuous access to benefits and how to make up for this hole from spring. Well, it seems obvious, and it was an obvious priority at the time. Therefore, this was not the time to create additional covid beds and allocate resources that would safeguard potential needs, especially since, as you can see, and this is a fact with which we find it difficult to discuss the hospital base and the availability of beds has been provided by us at an extremely fast pace. Of course, there was a great deal of involvement mainly of medical entities, great involvement of voivodships, great involvement of resorts in this, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration, the Ministry of National Defence, involvement also in the construction and preparation of temporary hospitals, which at an extremely rapid rate were prepared and some of which are already functioning. I am therefore convinced that these measures have, however, secured the availability of covid benefits. Of course, we've all seen images showing overcrowding of hospitals or ambulances standing under hospitals, but really, please believe not only me, please also contact the healthcare providers, with medical rescue in many cases, as confirmed by the National Health Fund checks at the moment, this was not a situation connected with the complete filling of covid beds that hospitals declared, but rather with their unpreparedness, despite the assurances that it was. But please wait patiently for the results of the checks we carry out in this area. As for oxygen beds and oxygen beds, of course, we are taking a lot of action here to secure the care providers in those oxygen beds and oxygen beds. Large investment funds have gone to oxygen installations, and we have really been providing this support since spring. These measures go further, support is also provided by the institutions, in particular some companies of the Treasury, which today provide access to oxygen, to oxygen cylinders. These actions are obviously meant to provide everything, but I am also unable to put my hand on my heart today and say: each of the 35 thousand beds we have allocated for the patients in the fight against COVID, has certainly provided oxygen installation. Well, take into account, however, that an important part of the activities, important activity is in the hands of the operators, is in the hands of the directors of these entities or the bodies forming these entities. I would like to remind you that the Minister of Health is a body for dozens of entities in Poland, and we all have about 900 and the majority is concentrated in the hands of the Marshals of voivodships, in the hands of local government units, powiats, and therefore part of this responsibility must also lie on these entities. About the question about the team I understand it's about a team supporting the Minister of Health. I can clarify that. With regard to our experience and my work, I can confirm that from the very beginning of the pandemic we have worked in a practically daily assembly of crisis staffs, with the participation and support of many authorities, particularly Professor Horban, who is also part of this team set up on 4 September, has a voice there. Many other experts have also cooperated; I will also mention the COVID laboratory team, previously appointed by the Minister of Health. I can't tell you precisely now whether or not this team was formally appointed by the Minister of Health. I'm sure he acted informally, while September 4th, and that was the date when... Well, after taking the helm at the Ministry of Health, Minister Niedzielski expressed his expectation of clarifying this and formalizing the shape of this team, but it is obviously not the conclusion that we can... I mean, let's not conclude that there hasn't been such expert support before. Of course, it was, although perhaps not in the form of a team formally appointed by the Minister of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u97	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u98	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to clarify here the question of Senator Krzysztof Brejza and ask for a broader period of time. This is exactly the case between 2008 and 2015 and how many hospital beds and how many health care facilities were removed at that time. Of course, given the scope of the question, I will ask for a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. One more question you're asking Senator Brejz. You're welcome, Senator. Remotely. [[One more thing, so it's over?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u100	I will answer to the senator, my colleague, for the Minister. Under the Platform and PSL, 208 more hospitals were created. Under the PiS regime, eight hospitals were wound up. This is official data. Thank you very much for that question, Senator. And I'd like to get some more information about the hospital modernisation fund. Minister, will this fund be created as a fund, or will it never be created by the State again? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u101	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u102	Sorry, Mr. Senator, I missed that question. I'm on the list. I'll answer. I don't think it's worth getting attached to the nomenclature. It is not worth getting attached to whether the hospital modernisation fund is today called a fund or is part of a sub-fund. I'm sending you to the Medical Fund Act. It was indeed set up in the framework of President Andrzej Duda's initiative, of course, a sub-fund for the modernisation of hospitals, a sub-fund for which specific objectives were set, which was also mentioned by the Prime Minister in his exposé. It is clear that this sub-fund has separate objectives, separate tasks. The financial plan of the Medical Fund will allocate funds for these purposes. For me, as Minister of Health, it's quite indifferent whether it's a separate special fund or a subfund for the Medical Fund. This is all set out in the Act, and the Minister of Health is obliged to implement this law, to provide funds for this fund. So I confirm: we have fulfilled the assurance of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. We have made it possible to achieve these objectives by extracting a pool of funds from the hospital modernisation sub-fund. I hope... this bill came into force today. We proceed to urgent work to carry out these measures gradually.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u103	Thank you very much, Minister. You're welcome, Senator Ewa Matecka. Ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I am very concerned about this information because you confirmed my previous speech. [[Voice from the room: Microphone, microphone!]] During the debate on the Medical Fund, I pointed out that the Medical Fund was, as a matter of fact, consuming the hospital modernisation fund. After all, the hospital modernisation fund was an earlier project announced by the Prime Minister, and now it has been incorporated into the Medical Fund. It interferes with this earlier announcement. The funds allocated to the hospital modernisation fund were to be something separate from the Medical Fund. That's how it's been presented to us. Now the Minister confirms that one fund has been consummated by another. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u106	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, not really... In fact, I would say otherwise: I am convinced that it could not be presented as such, because I had the pleasure of presenting the principles of this law. I did it together with Minister Paul Mucha from the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland. What's more... May I ask the question: is it wrong that it was consummated by the Medical Fund? The hospital modernisation fund, which was mentioned by the Prime Minister and about which the amount of PLN 2 billion was declared, was supposed to be the amount of support from this fund over a period of about 5 years, giving an average of PLN 400 million per year. This is from the declaration made by the Prime Minister. It is I who make such a declaration that within the framework of this sub-fund, within the available pool of funds from the Medical Fund, i.e. those 4 billion zlotys a year, we will fulfill this promise with interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u107	Thank you for your commitment. You're still Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u108	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'll refer to what Senator Brejza said. Nevertheless, I would ask for statistical data from the Ministry of Health. I've seen different calculations, too, but I think the Minister of Health has the right data. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. I am surprised to conclude that there are no more senators who would like to ask the Minister a question. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide written answers to questions raised by Senators Czerwiński, Swede and Necessary. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Beata Małecka-Libera. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Today's bill is actually a kind of veto, a veto, which we put not only to the law and its articles, but above all to the medical environment and the whole health system. It's been almost eight months since the outbreak started. The fight against the coronavirus is a huge challenge for our entire society. From the beginning it was known that it would be a big challenge - No, there's been an unknown disease. That there will certainly be many problems for this purpose. However, we were all hoping that this enemy would gradually be recognized and that the possibility of building a strategy, a strategy that would be consulted with experts, which would be readable, which could then be communicated to the public. Because without society's participation, the fight against the coronavirus, which we all know, is impossible. And what do we have after these eight months, what kind of legal situation, what kind of legal situation, what kind of strategy do we have at this point? Well, the best example is those draft laws, which are supposed to be health laws, to improve the situation of the epidemic crisis. I think it's the first time they're actually addressed to the medical community. Well, they're supposed to improve the health situation, but this whole discussion today has shown how badly these laws are prepared. I am already overlooking the fact that they are violating constitutional rules and we should not discuss this at all. The proposals that were the most interesting and most needed environment, which is the amendment that we are considering today, are being removed. It's about all the extra salaries, the possibility of increasing contracts for hospitals. All the most important objectives that have been enshrined in this Act are eliminated by the present Act. Please also bear in mind that an order has been given to the Minister of Health regarding the National Health Fund, which prepares in the privacy of the offices some additional changes in the remuneration of rescue workers and hospital emergency workers. This causes a huge disorder, raises great concern among medical workers about how they are being paid and how they are to be rewarded at the moment, why by law they are divided according to the form of employment and whether they are posted to other jobs or not. The discussion took place, but I don't think there's been any vision, any strategy, what's next. This debate today, the process of this bill... In my view, this is a very good place and time to think about where we are and what has really been changed in these 8 months to improve the patient's situation and also to ensure greater safety and assistance for medical staff. I already told you today that medical workers from the very beginning stand side by side with representatives of all medical professions and fight the coronavirus very bravely. However, the proposals presented by the Ministry of Health through these laws, as has already been said, are demotivating. There's no motivation, there's no incentive, there's no respect. What is the patient's view of this situation? You are certainly following all kinds of information, reports of daily work in hospitals, what daily work with a covid patient looks like, how many important things have been neglected. At first, it was a fight for personal protective equipment, it was a fight for beds to be able to connect a patient to a ventilator. It was a challenge for the first few months. There were many doubts about the supply, the compliance with the certificates and how they were imported into the country. But this is another thing, and I do not want to bring it up here, because we have already discussed this in this House many times. However, the confusion, the chaos that accompanies the organizational changes, reigns from the beginning to today. First covid hospitals were created, which turned out to be used at the beginning of the epidemic in 30%. Later they were restored to the primary function. Now it turns out that on the second wave of epidemics, about which it was known from the beginning that it would be a much more dangerous wave, we are not prepared. Beds are missing, so beds are quickly formed in different places, in congress halls, in stadiums, in places completely unprepared to receive infectious diseases. The question that was asked was why the hospital base was not used. The deserts that are actually in every city. Both in Warsaw, in Katowice and in many other cities there was information that hospitals were already built, even functioning, but because they did not have contracts, did not receive patients and were empty. Why wasn't this bed base used? After all, it would probably be much easier to put money into even a non-functional hospital, to equip it, than to build an improvised hospital, which is at the National Stadium. All of this still involves diversification in employment and in the remuneration of the workers who work there. It really doesn't help, it doesn't help organizations in hospitals, it doesn't help to solve epidemic problems. And so step by step, we can change here, because it's not just about the number of beds, the number of ventilators, it's not that in April or May, when we talked about the challenge that awaits us in autumn, I asked if the right amount of oxygen was provided. Well? Turns out, unfortunately, once again we were right, we were right, that a few months had been lost, and the whole couple that I'm going to put it this way, at the moment it's only targeted at patients with a coronavirus. What about the others? After all, the whole health system is also intended for other patients, others who also need help. And unfortunately, the situation at the moment is that it was issued by almost 30% less so-called DiLO cards, cards that are issued when the patient starts fighting for his life, fighting cancer. The number of procedures associated with the vessels that are irritated in the case of thrombotic diseases has decreased by almost 35%, the number of stimulators assumed has decreased by 50%. These are terrifying data. Did the Ministry of Health really just become the ministry of the epidemic, the ministry of the Coronavirus? After all, this is the role and task of the Minister of Health to ensure that the part connected with the fight against the epidemic, with the huge challenge, is indeed a priority, but it must not be forgotten that there are also patients who need to take advantage of and have access to the advice of other doctors. Minister, current Minister Niedzielski was the President of the National Health Fund. It was President Adam Niedzielski who gave the order then, a recommendation to refrain: do not leave the house, do not examine yourselves, it would be better if we did not perform preliminary tests, maybe we should refrain from performing scheduled procedures. And now it's really a question. to you already, Minister: who will take responsibility for all those patients who have not received advice for a few months, have not gone to the doctor, have not been diagnosed? What's my point? Well, my point is, ladies and gentlemen, these beds, these ventilators, oxygen, ambulances that limp before the SORs... This is all very important and proves that the system is not well organized. They're chaotic, conflicting orders. Often, patients and medical staff themselves do not know exactly what to do, because commands are contradictory, and strategies change from day to day. It can't be that a hospital that does treatments heals patients with other diseases gets orders from a voivode about changing from day to day. This hospital is not prepared, not only in terms of equipment, not only in terms of lack of ventilators, but also in terms of staff, which is absolutely not prepared to take care of the patient with the coronavirus. This is all, unfortunately, negligence, which lasts a month after a month. It would seem that there will be a moment... that autumn will be the period for which we will be prepared, that it will be the time when we will have some plans for how the epidemic will develop. Whether she's going to be heavier or lighter, we'll have plans, plan A and plan B. Unfortunately, we don't have them. What's the effect? Well, the best indicator of all that happened in the system, the best indicator of that... [[Senator, I'm sorry, but you've been out of time for three minutes.]] I'm almost done. The best indicator is mortality. As much peak and increase in mortality as we have at this time, in the autumn, did not even have Spain, did not have Italy, according to the number of inhabitants. And that's the most important indicator of how the system works. If it hadn't been for the medical staff, if it hadn't been for his dedication, the system would have completely collapsed. It is only through the sacrifice and excellent work of medical workers that we are somehow able to maintain this situation. Therefore, when I go back to today's debate on the bill, I would like to call once again for this not to differentiate between medical professionals. I call for them to be properly motivated to be properly rewarded, respected and adequately secured, because without them this system will no longer be at all. In conclusion, I will only go back to the question of mortality, because these indicators are really scary. If we have an increase of 34,000 in 20 days... From August 31 to today, there was an increase in deaths of 34,000. And the Ministry of Health says that only 11,000 are patients who died because of COVID-19, which means that all the rest, the 22,000, are so-called. The silent deaths are the deaths of all those who, during the outbreak, of this fight against the epidemic, died of other diseases. That's the challenge of this system. Therefore, we absolutely cannot accept all the promises that are made here, and the swearing, that it is so wonderful that we have secure seats and that actually the system is efficient. It's not. He's at the end of his stamina. I think that medical personnel are already very tired, not only physically, but also mentally, and these kinds of laws and such solutions as they are proposed, are not really helping them. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The chaos in health care, the propensity of strategy, the disregard of doctors, the incompetence of officials are the distinctions of today's health care condition. Until recently it seemed clear that in the health of Poles there is no consent to lack of professionalism, there is no consent to random decisions or actions causing confusion among doctors, and consequently organizational chaos and legal chaos within the whole system. When it turned out that the failed policy of the PiS government allowed all these situations, we found that in our destructive drives the government could go even further. For many, the first signal was the unclear interests of companies associated with the Minister of Health, on which the Treasury and us taxpayers lost tens of millions of PLN. Hospitals received useless ventilators and dubious quality personal protective equipment. Let us add that this was done when medical facilities in many cities organized collections for their own needs and asked for material support. However, the reasons for the present situation need to be looked deeper. First of all, in the disrespectful treatment of the health workers in charge. We remember the loud call of one of the PS messengers during the session, which addressed the doctors, saying, "Let them go." And they're gone. Her appeal was not left without an echo. Since then, Poland has left about 2 thousand excellent medical professionals. The PiS Parliamentarians also advocated a restrictive provision on liability for unintentionally causing medical errors, according to which doctors could go to prison for up to 7 years. This is not only another argument for doctors considering possible emigration, but also a factor preventing them from making difficult but courageous decisions that often save people's lives. Excused from the country, haunted by the phantom of severe punishments and disrespectful doctors, who struggled daily with the chaos of the system, were also ruthlessly deceived in economic matters. In the Sejm, Members, including Members of the PIS, initially accepted the Senate amendment granting a 100% wage allowance for all COVID workers, and now, today, they are proposing an amendment which removes this key Senate amendment, i.e. it takes away parts of the medical environment already granted money. In this way, he wants to deprive medical workers of the right to additional remuneration. The curious fact is that the law adopted in the Sejm and signed by the President of the Republic has not been published to this day. Therefore, it is expected that the Senate of the Republic of Poland will work on a de facto, formally non-existent document. We do not agree to such a procedure and we do not agree to deprive ourselves of the right to additional remuneration of medical professionals fighting the COVID during the epidemic. If the Sejm rejects our senate veto on the amended law, we can expect that this will lead to another absurd situation in which there will be a threat that doctors working in the same hospital and with the same commitment will be severely rewarded in different ways. This can be seen not only as an environmental conflict, but also as an environmental conflict. . and above all, To break the constitutional guarantee of equality, Article. 32 constitutions. In this situation, health professionals indicated by the voivode will be clearly favoured. This is unacceptable for both legal and ethical reasons. The question was, where's the money from, where's the money from? We heard: we don't have that kind of money. Well, we just need to take a good look... That money could be found. It would not be possible to allocate PLN 10 billion to public media and cheap propaganda, and to ensure good and decent pay for medical practitioners fighting a pandemic in a very difficult situation. Moreover, a temporary hospital at the National Stadium and a similar hospital in Katowice also proved to be a huge and costly mystification. In both cases, the propaganda effect was more important than the real impact of the measures taken. For example, no use was made. from existing hospital buildings in Katowice, Wrocław and Warsaw. In these buildings, adaptation to pandemic specifics would be incomparably more effective, and treatment of patients It's more efficient and cheaper. The provision of government with enough free beds and ventilators also contradicts everyday experience. Images of ambulances circulating from hospital to hospital have also become symbolic in recent weeks in search of places for a patient who has often been in a life-threatening state. Add to this a small and constantly decreasing number of tests, which makes daily information about infections mostly unbelievable. If you assume that in Poland there have already been about 158 thousand tests per million inhabitants... In comparison, Lithuania made nearly 473 thousand of them. 473 000 per million inhabitants in Lithuania. In Germany, 315 000 per million inhabitants; in the Czech Republic Nearly 300,000 per million inhabitants. This means that the diagnosis underlying the strategy is largely illusory. The lack of a thoughtful strategy, accidental and ad hoc action, as well as the apparent passing away of truth both in relation to the medical environment and in relation to society as a whole, aggravates the chaos and increases the costs of fighting pandemics overnight. This fight is now more expensive, the less effective it is. And this cannot be covered by attempts to shift responsibility to allegedly not sufficiently involved in the work of doctors, all health professionals. In the face of so many absurdities, incompetence and propensity of health policy, as well as simple dishonesty and lack of effective strategy in the fight against the pandemic, chaos must deepen and chaos must worsen. A government that does not control the health situation, however, wants to maintain undivided control of society and does so in a way far from democratic standards. You cannot stop doctors, nurses in Poland without respecting their work, ignoring them and underestimating their work. Nor can reality be enchanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u113	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The bill we are pursuing, in fact, the amendment, according to the Minister, and the representative of the applicants, has the most positive action. So to sum it up, I'm going to say this. It says here that the convalidation of error... Well, actually, my rage knows no bounds. What mistake? Would it be a mistake to change everything that this bill would change if we voted it out? What's the difference? The rights of medical professionals, professionals and persons with whom health care contracts have been concluded who have not been assigned to work by administrative decision and who participate in the provision of health services to persons with COVID-19 or persons suspected of being infected with SARS-CoV-2, to receive a monthly salary allowance of 100% the amount of the monthly salary resulting from the employment contract or other contract under which the work is carried out during the duration of the emergency or epidemic. What's wrong with that? It's just good. If someone in Poland thinks that they put themselves in a big stadium of beds and ventilators, which there is no one to serve, they will cure anyone, they are very wrong. And getting out of that record is a huge mistake. Has anyone ever bothered and counted at what age, average, are nurses, doctors, what the availability of these people looks like at the moment, their ability to work, how many of them are sick at that time on COVID? And that's why I have a deep conviction. What am I gonna say now and then? That we have to vote against this wick, in fact, for all this breaking the constitution. The second solution that we are withdrawing today is the law of insured persons employed in a medical facility during the period of compulsory quarantine, isolation or isolation in domestic conditions. To be paid 100 per cent. Finally, the third issue, which is very important, which hospital directors are talking about, is the responsibility of the President of the National Health Fund to amend the financial plan of this fund for 2020 in order to increase by at least 15%. a flat-rate fee for the financing of healthcare services. What's wrong here? What mistake? Fifteen Members wrong? I give my head that they voted for Poles and Poles, that it was not a mistake. Error is what you're trying to do right now. Because the situation isn't good. You can't curse reality, say it's great, how bad it is. Look at the number of deaths. They are the measure of how health care is currently functioning. Question: "Is this the case for all the people you talk about every day when you mention the following numbers: 500, 600, 670?" Did they receive the aid they should receive? Or did they drive up to some hospital's driveway and end their lives there? Or, like yesterday, what the media is discussing... A dead girl who didn't make it, alive, an ambulance came home, only an ambulance came and said she was dead. This is a healthy health care? These aren't isolated cases. If I wanted to exchange all that bad stuff, I could probably do half a day of speeches and cases where, in my opinion, I've been working in health care for 45 years, and I'm still an active doctor today. It is not necessarily possible to talk about the mistakes of a particular person. I know there's a prosecutor's case. But, ladies and gentlemen, life is priceless. Once someone's gone to that side, they won't come back. There's no more important thing. There's no... Let's not spend money on a limo, on TV, on no one knows what. There is nothing more precious than human life. And that's what the resources need to be for. Especially since we're talking about 4 billion zlotys here. Why all the fun? Ladies and gentlemen, I absolutely believe that it is right for the Senate Health Committee to vote against this law, because this is really, from the legal side of the issue, through the content itself, the harmful law, which contains all the wrong records. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u115	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u116	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. You'd like to say Mr. Minister, but the Minister has left us, you can say, drifted away or... [[He's got it all figured out.]] Excuse me? [[He's got it all figured out.]] Well, let's just say he did. And I'm not surprised. If I were him, I'd do it, too, because he's defending things that can't be defended. It defends an initiative that does not have political or economic or medical or human relevance, simply none. Just not anymore. I am taking the floor caused by, in fact, President Kaczyński, who in the Seym, from the Seym, called us senators who voted in favour of this solution and this amendment, people acting unethically who want to destroy the state. Well, I'm actually the author of these amendments, some of them were already written in the spring, some now, and I strongly disagree with this assessment. This is amazing thinking. In every country, health care is admiring and appreciating, funding, while in our country an initiative to move towards this health service finally begins to look normal, so to speak, to finally appreciate its heroes, so that... here it is called destruction of the state. The truth is this. The solutions that we have today and which the Deputy Minister, who is no longer present, has defended here, are: a chambermaid who works for a month, every day for 8 hours in this covid spray, earns 2,000 700 or 2,000 800 per month, and a doctor from the National Stadium who has not accepted any patient, has given an interview, earns 4,000 800 per day. These are today's solutions that the Minister and the Government are defending. Well, I'm a doctor myself, and I know doctors have to be appreciated, but for work, for work. Other people must also be appreciated for their work. And here there is absolutely no balance. Genesis of these amendments. They've gotten... Two of them are from spring because Shield 2.0 includes the possibility of commercialization and privatisation of hospitals when they will be in financial difficulties when local governments will not be able to cover losses. That was the first time I had tabled these amendments on the 15% increase in the valuation of benefits and on how to give up an unfinished contract or a lump sum this year. 'Cause it was known that it wouldn't be The risk of privatization of hospitals has also arisen. Today, the Prime Minister, getting on a plane when he was about to leave for Orbán in Hungary, seems to have been mistaken because he said that we are implementing, we are implementing Shield 2.0. He probably meant Shield 6.0. But this mistake was symptomatic, perhaps we're actually implementing Shield 2.0 and now the way to deal with health care, when it's in collapse, will be privatization. So maybe... [[It's a 2.0 financial shield.]] Perhaps that's what was written in Shield 2.0. And I'm afraid that's what happened. Genesis of the third amendment, the one we're talking about today, about the need for healthcare professionals to receive allowances. Well, that is the decision of Minister Niedzielski, who changed his tactics, i.e. He left hospitals with a single name, from the distinction that some doctors are fighting COVID and others aren't, and he changed it so that everyone is doing it. Of course, it's not true that it isn't. If a hospital, which is not an infectious hospital, normally receives patients at the S.R., directs them to troops, operates them, etc., then all employees of this hospital are involved. Family doctors are also involved. The Minister, while still head of the NFZ, was very protective of the idea of teleporad. We in the Senate Committee on Health said that perhaps family doctors should be more involved, should work more closely with the patient, but then this solution was presented as the success of the government, i.e. that thanks to the fact that there were teleports, teleprescriptions, e-releases, etc., etc., care was possible in general. Now it's changed because now these doctors need to be paid. Well, they've been given health care duties, they have to guard quarantine, they have to fill in piles of records, they have to treat patients at that time, and there's no money for them. Besides, this differentiation is amazing. Because why doctors who really don't work in contact with COVID, but also work in a huge burden now, because they do work for those who are directed to fight COVID... Because when half the beds in a hospital are occupied for covid patients, it's the rest of the doctors, nurses, etc. I need you to focus on these other patients. And they are also working under increased pressure, also in a difficult situation, and they also deserve a supplement, and that is completely forgotten. I think turning my back on the staff, which now the government is doing, is a huge mistake. We hear that the voices that speak of protests are already rising, the voices that demand raises. Indeed, people feel cheated and have the right to do so. I do not believe that the Members of the PiS, the 15 Members of the PiS, have made a mistake. And I can't believe the president made a mistake signing the bill. I think their conscience just moved. They saw that there were these solutions, that they should come into force, that's why they did. Well, if the Members are wrong, if the President is wrong, it is difficult to comment, but I do not think that the terms used by his political camp should be used in relation to his President. The government makes it clear that this money doesn't belong to you, but we deserve limousines, we deserve raises. We know the vice ministers are going to get 100%. raises. Well, they don't make a lot of money, but I'm wondering if these vice ministers who are working on COVID are gonna get it. Deputy Minister Kraska, and other vice-ministers will not get them. Probably not, because there has to be constitutional equality and everyone gets it. I appeal to the Senators of Law and Justice: probably for political reasons you cannot vote in favour, but you may abstain. Look into the eyes of nurses, doctors, room doctors, radiology technicians, other health professionals. Look them in the eye and then in your own conscience, and decide. You can hold on. Although it will be an expression of your appreciation for all these people. What's the president gonna have to do now? The president will have to veto this bill because it is incompatible with the constitution, because it differentiates employees, divides them into those headed by the voivode and those unguided. I don't know what he's gonna do, but he's either gonna have to sign an unconstitutional bill or he's gonna have to refer it to the Constitutional Court. We'll see. Anyway, he's being placed now... he'll be placed if the Sejm rejects our opposition, in a very difficult situation. Ladies and gentlemen, it can't really be that people put their lives in jeopardy, that there's 20-30% in hospitals. staff infected with the coronavirus... It is. The rest of them are doing activities they can't do. This staff is getting mixed up. It's being redirected. One time he takes care of covid patients, another time he doesn't, one time they're in this room, another time in another room. This cannot be treated in this way, selectively, as the Minister tried to present to us. An example? All the deliveries in the country. All the delivery rooms are delivered to the birthing patients. They don't have tests done before, they just give birth, they have to be taken care of, and everyone's at risk of seeing a patient who's infected. And what are these workers supposed to do? From the beginning of the epidemic they have been working, infecting, healing or not. But this is an example that isn't here. No one thinks of them, nor do many other employees. Why doesn't anyone think, for example? About the technical workers who exchange oxygen tanks that come into these units, they walk in these COR fumes? And what, they're not medical workers, they don't deserve a raise, it's not this group, we don't see them? This injustice won't go away, she's too obvious. Trust in the rulers, already squandered, in a group of doctors, in a group of nurses, in a group of halls, technicians, all the others will fall into ruins. I call on this bill, which is basically also a shield for hospitals, because it's a defense for hospitals... We forget at all that there are companies like hospitals in our economic system. These companies before the epidemic were indebted to PLN 16 and 18 billion, we do not even know how much. Their situation is still difficult and deteriorating. We're not defending them, we're defending companies that have profited from the epidemic and will profit from the epidemic. It is right that we defend them, because they may fall, there will be human tragedies, job losses, but we do not defend hospitals, we are voting in favour of abolishing the amendments that have financed health care, which have adequately secured medical benefits in the right amount. That's what we're doing, and we shouldn't be doing that. That bill was corrected as much as it could have been corrected, and what was sent from the Sejm was a terrible rubble. This is the thing that has to show the health care again: you don't deserve this money. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u117	Thank you, Senator. I would like the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u118	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am very brief, because some of the arguments I wanted to raise during this debate have already been made, so I will not repeat them. I will not vote in favour either, because the bill defames my dignity, insults me as a doctor and as a senator. Once again, the PiS government is failing us. As before, in 2007, when there was a nationwide strike of doctors, nurses, midwives, doctors. I didn't expect anything else. And I would like to assure you solemnly that I will continue to stand by the patient's bed like my colleagues and my colleagues, all the medical staff mentioned here: from the living room to the nurses, nurses, paramedics and just doctors Whether we have a financial contribution or not. In the course of today's discussion, it seems that the government party completely does not understand what the first line of the front is. He uses those words quite often. I don't even use that statement anymore in everyday conversations with my colleagues because everyone is working absolutely on this line. I don't think I'm a hero. My colleagues say we do what we do, and we don't want to be spoken of as such, but we want our government to help us in this fight against the coronavirus, not help. Why aren't the rulers learning from Viktor Orbán? He was very quick and able to deal with the pay of health care workers, because he knew that if he didn't reward them, they would lose their motivation to work. And remuneration is one of those motivations. I'd like to say that we've already been divided many times. We were divided in a situation where we specialists made less money than residents. But we didn't let ourselves be manipulated like this as a medical environment. We are together and together we stand by the patient's bed, during the COVID-19 pandemic, in the fight against the virus. Because this fight is still going on and we need to be healthy, competent and passionate about this fight. This is our daily work, our daily life. From first contact with a paramedic, by performing surgery in a patient who is e.g. after the swab and is negative, and in a moment it is positive, ending with contact with the giving patient who comes with birth pains and only a swab in a few hours will show that this patient is positive. And you must know that these people who are at the time of this birth are often infected during it, because they have been with this patient for a long time. So that I absolutely won't support this legal bullshit. And I think it's very damaging to the medical community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u119	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This law and this debate are really about three areas: the medical community as a professional group, the COVID pandemic, but also, above all, money. It is difficult to escape the impression that the government wants to build an image at all costs, that it is perfectly capable of dealing with the pandemic, as example is the government's involvement in the National Hospital. Because if you actually accept this assumption, you should recall the term that was circulating in the times of the Polish People: the people drink champagne with the mouth of their representatives. In this case, doctors must feel good, because those who are employed at the National Stadium are well paid. I recently, looking at all kinds of adverts, found an announcement about hiring medical assistants for work at the National Hospital. Turns out those people who volunteer for work there are going to make 80 zlotys in an hour. It is easy to calculate that it will be approx. 8,5 thousand zlotys a month. This can be combined with another very important professional group, with those working in hospitals, namely nurses and nurses. They're making money on average. It is also a statistics of about PLN 4.5 thousand per month. The medical caretaker, who does not need to have any preparation, at the National Stadium, at the National Hospital, will earn about 8,5 thousand, and the nurse, who must be perfectly prepared and properly educated, after all, they work hard, also with people who are infected with the coronavirus, earns an average of PLN 4.5 thousand in Poland. Another financial statement is also easy to find. As much as 700,000 PLN a day costs to keep this picu at the National Stadium. It is easy to calculate that daily this is the equivalent of twice the increase for 156 nurses and a month for 4.5,000 nurses. This shows how badly this money is spent by health care in Poland, by the Ministry of Health. Of course, I am aware that there are about 300 thousand nurses in Poland and that if you wanted to give them all such significant increases, you would need to look for money elsewhere. But after all, this money is, we know perfectly well examples of wasted money by the current government. These examples include the 2 billion already mentioned for public television or this unfortunate investment related to the excavation of the measure. Well, that's another 2 billion. The ships are going nowhere, because they're not going anywhere, they're just going to swim by me. There are also tens of millions of zlotys spent buying new cars for the government, as if it were the most important investment during the pandemic. All of this together makes the government refuse to sign off on it. Well, he could have taken a quick procession path, treated it as an urgent bill, put in a government initiative. This law would then be treated as quickly as if a group of Members had submitted a proposal, but the government refused to sign it. He found Members who had thoughtlessly signed up for a bad, outrageous bill. And finally, I will also vote against this bill. I have no doubt that people who work hard in the Polish healthcare system, people who are exposed to coronavirus infection daily, are entitled to raises. I have no doubt that they are individuals from start to finish professionally and fully involved. This bill is only suitable for basketball. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u121	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I carefully listened to this discussion, this debate, which is on the fourth item of the agenda, i.e. the Act amending the Law on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crises related to the occurrence of COVID-19. I would like to draw the attention of the High House to one point which, in my opinion, has decided on what has happened from 28 October to today. Well, as you know, this bill has been passed... Well, not that bill, just the one before. The Senate amendments in the Seym were voted on 28 October 2020. As we know, the key amendment that was adopted in the Senate, the amendment to the previous version of the bill, was not... That is to say, the motion to reject this request of the Senate has not obtained a majority. In the opinion of the Members who took part in this vote, some of them could not take part in the vote due to the break-up of the call, the separation of iPads and this was confirmed. And some of the Members said that there was a mistake. Why am I talking about this? Therefore, High Izbo, that in such a situation, in accordance with the principles of the legislative process, it was necessary in the Sejm to submit a request for readmission. It's a possibility. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: Article 189 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 We read that when the result of the vote raises reasonable doubts, the Sejm may resumptate the vote. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2: the request may be submitted only at the sitting at which the vote took place. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3: The Sejm shall decide on the readmission of votes at the written request of at least 30 Members. Paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4: the results of the roll-call vote are not resumable. So there were all the rules of procedure to make such a resummation. What would that mean? This would mean that then there would not be a situation in which, as we read, the purpose of this law, which we are currently pursuing, is to condone the error that occurred during the examination in the Senate of the Senate's amendments to the Act amending certain laws in relation to the prevention of crisis situations... etc., etc. It wasn't a mistake. This was the result of the vote held in the Seym. If it really was what the Members say it was And I checked, I asked, I asked various Members, from various clubs, as well as those who witnessed this event. This had to be resummated at the same meeting. And then this bill would be properly processed, and after the President's signature, it could be published. And right now there's been a situation, I'd say weird; I don't want to define it differently. Because there is a bill that passed the normal legislative path in the Seym and the Senate, signed at the beginning of November by the President I can no longer remember when, probably on November 3 but it was not announced in the relevant official journal, i.e. de facto it was not put into legal circulation. We're doing the so-called right now. convalidation, and such a construction is not known in Polish law, and for this reason, I believe that the public should be given this explanation. At the moment, I don't want to settle anything about the motivation of a government that says it can't give that kind of pay to all doctors working with people infected with the virus that have the COVID. I think it would be good to negotiate with the medical community in this area, with security workers, health professionals, how to do this. However, the effect of all this is that after this kind of legislative action the Polish state does not look serious It's a first. Secondly, the environment of people working in health care has the right to feel uncomfortable The situation could be described even more strongly because there is no worse thing than giving something and then taking it away. Well, that's kind of the dimension of this bill that hasn't been published. In such a situation, it is better to react immediately, not to conduct discussions. Such situations, I believe, should be a warning for the future. And to the opposition that applied for the rejection of this law, I would like to address it this way. I regret a little bit that this request was made because, in my opinion, it was necessary to submit substantive proposals to the Act and not just to reject it. Perhaps one of such conclusions would be supported by the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u123	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Breja. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u124	Thank you very much. Can you hear me? [[Yes.]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! [[But you can't see... oh, now you can.]] I would advise the government and politicians of the PiS to take more seriously what they hear and what the senators and the authorities of the Senate indicate. It is wrong that there are no representatives of the applicant here, but worse that you do not listen to warnings that come from the Senate from the very beginning. I will return to the words that came at the Health Committee meeting on 4 May 2020, when the chief health inspector, Mr Pinkas, said yes. We've been prepared for this before any alerts have appeared. It's not a virus that we're going to be afraid of like SARS or MERS, and in his case, mortality is relatively low, and it can be compared to flu-related mortality. This virus is a virus that is much less serious for us right now than flu virus. Let me remind you that 160 people died last year because of the complications of the flu. She disagreed with Senator Chybick's words, the other Senators and the Senator of the Civic Coalition, the Senate's majority, disagreed. Now, on the subject of mortality, I'm going to say that October to October, year to year... data is dramatic. Several thousand more people died. These are human dramas, each of us knew at least one person who died of COVID or complications related to COVID. They were largely silent deaths, because health care despite the various specialties you have proposed, great solutions in March, April, in May is not able to achieve. I'll give you the NFZ data that entered my Senator's office. Cards for oncology treatment... This is the year-to-year data, until September, without taking the second wave into account. Warmińsko-Mazurskie - minus 850 oncology treatment cards; Małopolska Of an output exceeding 750 kVA but not exceeding 750 kVA It's minus 500. Surgical oncology consultation: Warmińsko-Mazurskie Voivodship minus 1 thousand; Małopolska Of an actual alcoholic strength by volume exceeding 13% vol but not exceeding 13% vol It's minus 500. Consultation of clinical oncology: Warmia-Mazurskie Voivodeship - minus 600; Małopolska - minus 1 thousand 100; Podkarpatie - minus 500. How many such benefits, how many fewer such treatments are there? Each of us hears about such cases, our senator offices are reached by desperate people with signals that procedures are being translated, that benefits cannot be used. We hear about people dying in ambulances dying in front of hospitals. Why is that? That's what we're asking you. Why didn't you create a white hospital system? Why did you waste the summer? Finally, why are you manipulating statistics like that? Today we finally find out about somewhere between the Minister's words that covid beds are not oxygen beds. The situation is very serious. You are talking about a possible third wave of epidemics, and with no such wave there is no improvement in your approach to controlling the situation. I'll give you an example of POZ doctors incorporated into this system at some point. Already in September and October from one of the doctors from the municipality of Janikowo I received information that he does not have any medical procedures. You've introduced some administrative guidelines, okay, he knows how to isolate the patient, how to get him to a hospital in a more serious situation, but with regard to a patient with mild symptoms he has no guidelines, the POS doctors didn't have any guidelines on how to treat these people, they didn't have medical procedures. Only at the end of October, because we sent letters, we intervened on these cases, and you gave the doctors of the POZ such a medical scheme, yes, at the end of October. The COVID team formally, you admit, was set up at the beginning of September, after a vacation. No additional hospital facilities were created between March and early September. This indicator is shocking. He testifies to one thing: June, July, August was just wasted at which the so-called time could be created. White hospitals, i.e. separate health care on the one hand for patients with COVID, on the other hand for people with cardiac perturbations, oncology, other serious diseases, so as not to mix covidents, patients with COVID with other patients. It was known that this system would be clogged. And this system, unfortunately, finally jammed. This was all coming from the Senate from the very beginning, and the first information I will remind you of the fact that we had already in January. It wasn't even a Senate meeting, it wasn't information in the Senate. We all remember how the PiS community protested because the Senate was demanding information from the government on this subject. You didn't support this action at first. But the first information you had as early as January 2020 from the intelligence agency's memo, which you don't want to disclose, make public. One of the elements, of course not closely related to COVID, was the promise that I had to return to the speech of the minister of the hospital modernisation fund. Today the Minister says that he was created as a subfund for the Medical Fund. Well, you're not fulfilling that promise, and you're trying again to manipulate the amounts and information about the facts. President Duda, who recently, a few days ago, encouraged social media to support a fundraiser for one of the seriously ill people, promised that there would be no more such gatherings before the campaign. He then said that the Medical Fund is supposed to serve the oncology of children, the treatment of rare diseases, so that there is as little as possible of this type of action consisting in self-organization, because it is shocking that people in Poland are throwing themselves away, severely ill children collect money through various portals, people fight good hearts, self-organizing themselves. That's what the Medical Fund was supposed to do. But it turns out it's not. The collections are still under way. I'll tell you more, you've added another other promise to this Medical Fund, which is the modernization fund for hospitals. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the actual situation if we take off this level of powdering, manipulating, including statistics, telling things that aren't true, is really very bad. It's a pity you have such an attitude. One more example: strategy itself. You haven't formally adopted this strategy either. I think it wasn't until early November that the strategy was adopted by you. So the team in September, strategy later, medical procedures for POZ doctors later. The number of places in hospitals was not increased in the summer, the so-called system was not created. White hospitals to ensure continuity of treatment for other patients. And the effect is what it is, unfortunately the increase in the number of deaths is dramatic. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u125	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. [[No recording]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u126	We're still surprised at something. In this case, an error has been invented, i.e. the error has been corrected. If Members have made a mistake, there should be resummation, then the situation is clear. If there's been a mistake, you have to admit it. And here is the convalidation, the new concept of lawmaking, the new rule related to lawmaking, which it seems will also be applied later. This is a new invention. Do you remember the new invention of the Prime Minister's failure to publish the ruling? There was such a ruling in the previous term of office of the Constitutional Tribunal, in the previous term of office of the President, a clear ruling. This ruling has not been published. Now there's a similar situation. There is a law that has been passed in accordance with the law and regulations signed by the President and not published, which is not in force. The Prime Minister becomes the third organ, no, the next body of parliament... the third, yes, because he is the Sejm, the Senate is the second and the Prime Minister is the third. So the executive authorities decide whether or not the law enters into force, whether or not it should be stopped, withdrawn. The provision is clear: publications must be made immediately. This is immediately in the legal language within 3 days. How long are we waiting for this? How long do we wait? The situation from a legal point of view, the rule of law, is surprising, is absolutely unacceptable, unacceptable. It is possible to correct obvious errors, this was the case and concerns punctuation, etc., but it cannot be concluded that it was a mistake, suppose, not to use the word "no" and to convert it to "yes." This already requires legislative changes. I pay attention to that at the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a pandemic phase and this pandemic is continuing. Not quite true are the statistics on the disease. I myself know people who are sick... In the family the wife is ill, in the case of the husband there are indications that he is ill and not directed to research. But he's at home because he knows he's gonna have to stay home anyway. We know these cases, and I'm not the only one who knows them. COVID is no longer an abstract disease, because we all have friends, family, friends we know are sick. We also have friends, friends who died. It's not an abstract disease anymore. The number of cases is not accurate, it is certainly not accurate, there are more cases than reported. I told you why... Also because, as experts say, 3 to 8 times more patients are asymptomatic. Well, let's take the average, let's say there's five times as many. So this number of diseases isn't a exact number, it's definitely not a precise number. There are no doubt more diseases. The exact number of deaths is the number of deaths. Within about a month, this number of deaths doubled from about 300 to 600. What does that mean? That means that health care is on the verge of being able. She can't help everyone, you can't help everyone in the way you should help them. There's no room for anyone, someone has to wait for respiratory support, etc. And that's the reason for the jump. Therefore, in this situation, a very difficult, bordering, you need to send all the money you can to health care. We are unable to protect people who work in health care, from infection, from death, from such danger, but we should at least create a maximum of good conditions, including pay. These people should know that they are appreciated and should also not have any problems and think about this material site. The bill provided for it. And this type of action, financial support or an increase in salary, a lump sum, is needed not only for doctors and nurses. This is needed for all those who work, including chamber technicians, technicians. After all, they work in a situation of direct contamination, so they must also be remembered. It's probably not true or... Well, 15 Members of Law and Justice make people not only careless, but also those who don't know how to vote, what they support. I do not believe that such a group of Members of the governing party has been mistaken or was not able to join... I regret that the Minister of Health, also no Deputy Minister, is able to take responsibility for this bill, which withdraws the raises. We've given these raises, and right now these raises are pulling back. The government withdraws these increases and there is no minister who can say what is the ministry's position, what is the government's position on this Whether he supports this law or not. The minister's checked, he's not for or even against, but he's just gone. Which is why we should reject this bill, this fragmented bill, which, as we read, is colliding... That's why we should make a flow of money. The government itself should have known about this. It was bigger than the one that is now flowing because the situation is more difficult. And finally... Of course, it's not like you can't talk about it. If the minister or government thinks that such increases, which I think should be extended to technical personnel, can ruin finance, then we can propose And you can do that. Time limit for pandemics. That's what you can do. But the minister's gone, the minister's in hiding, so there's no one to argue with. I will vote against this law. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Mariusz Gromko, Aleksander Szwed, Jolanta Hibner, Janusz Pęcherz, Krzysztof Brejza, Wadi Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. I would like to inform you that Senator Richard Bober has submitted legislative proposals in writing. The discussion is closed. As legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the question: does the Minister, a representative of the government, want to respond to these proposals? Thank you. As legislative proposals have been submitted, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u128	We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the pharmaceutical profession law. The text of the Act is contained in print No 255 and the committee report In print No 255 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, to submit a report to the committee. Senator, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u129	Yes. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! I have the honour to present to you the report of the Health Committee on the Law on the Occupation of Pharmacy adopted by the Sejm on 28 October 2020. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 29 October. Following a review of the Act at its meeting on 17 November 2020, the committee requests the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. This law was a very expected law by the pharmaceutical community. It is analogous, ladies and gentlemen, to laws such as the Act on Competitions of Doctors and Dentist, the Act on Competitions of Nurse and Located, the Law on the Occupation of Physiotherapist. Our fellow pharmacists, as representatives of the medical profession, have finally seen their law, which regulates the pursuit of this profession. The profession of pharmacist so far has not had its legal regulations, therefore this law is one of the elements of ordering the health system. Without a doubt, the pharmaceutical profession law raises the profile of this profession and regulates important issues between pharmacies owners and employees. The current legislation was based on the Law of 19 April 1991 on Pharmacy Chambers and the Law of 6 September 2001 on Pharmaceutical Law. The main objective of the Act is to implement the demands set out in the Government document of the State's drug policy insofar as they relate to matters relating to services provided by the pharmaceutical community. The main objective of this law is also to agree in detail on obtaining the right to pursue the profession and on training and professional improvement of pharmacists. This law will allow, among others, the provision of pharmaceutical care. This is of great importance especially during the pandemic, and this can relieve the medical environment in hospitals, clinics when it comes to taking care of the patient. As part of this care, the pharmacist is entitled: to conduct pharmaceutical consultations; to carry out drug reviews, including pharmacovigilance; to develop an individual pharmaceutical care plan, taking into account the patient's drug problems; to carry out simple diagnostic tests; to issue prescriptions as part of the follow-up of medical recommendations. With these prescriptions, I can stop because I believe that our fellow pharmacists can also take care of the so-called. Polypragma, that older patients should not duplicate medicines with different trade names. So this is where you look at the big role of pharmacists. The new solution is also the clinical pharmacy service, which is part of the pharmaceutical service. Which is defined as actions to increase the effectiveness, safety and legitimacy, including the economic use of medicinal products and the support of a pharmacovigilance doctor, carried out by a pharmacist in a patient's medical activity... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...Presentor of the Supreme Pharmacy Council and representatives of employers. In the course of the discussion, the difference of opinion was primarily that the law should ensure independent pursuit of the profession for pharmacists, including when deciding on the economy of medicines. I would like to remind you that for almost 3 years there has been a pharmacy bill for the pharmacist and it is required that the pharmacist be the head of the pharmacy. And the owners of online drugstores are sometimes those who are not pharmacists. This law also regulates the fact that a pharmacist is to be a manager or a partner in such activities. The President of the Chief Pharmacy Council, Ms Emilia Piotrowska-Rutkowska, stressed the importance of the definition of pharmacy as a public health care facility, a place of pharmaceutical care, where the pharmacist performs a separate medical profession that is important in the protection of public health. The President also stressed that the pharmaceutical profession law does not in any way deprive an entrepreneur of the right to run a pharmacy. On behalf of employers, Mr Marcin Piskorski, representing the Association of Pharmacy Employers. He spoke against the decision to close pharmacies immediately and stressed the fact that only 6% pharmacies in Poland are drugstores with foreign capital. The rest are Polish pharmacies, Polish companies employing Polish workers, these are Polish entrepreneurs. In this network pharmacy, many people are employed by entrepreneurs. There were concerns that the introduction of the provision would threaten bankruptcy in the event of a conflict between the employer and the pharmacist. And here there was a conflict, a disagreement. The Health Committee wanted some consensus. I will also quote here the words of Mr Tomasz Kaczyński, a representative of the Polish Employers, who also argued against this provision and stressed that none of the entrepreneurs questioned the independence of pharmacists, but the level of independence goes beyond the issue of sanctions. Undoubtedly, the most controversial is the article. 35 of the pharmaceutical profession law, which states that it is the pharmacy itself that decides on the provision of pharmaceutical services, and art. 83, which indicates that the pharmaceutical inspection may decide to temporarily close the pharmaceutical warehouse, pharmacy and pharmacy for infringements. This decision would be immediate and an amendment to this article was taken into account during the work of the committee. This amendment assumes that immobilisation will be possible, but after pointing out the identified infringements to be removed and reprimanded. In the event of non-compliance with these indications, temporary immobilisation shall take place. The effects of an immediate decision on immobilisation are undoubtedly blocking patients directly. Example: immobilizing one pharmaceutical wholesaler can mean no drugs in hundreds of pharmacies. I think that a good compromise has been reached on this issue, because this solution protects the well-being of both patients and pharmacists and respects the right of entrepreneurs. In the course of the committee's work, the condition of persistence, which was in the original government submission, was also restored, but was finally removed. The independence of a pharmacist is undoubtedly one of the key values in the pharmaceutical profession. Cases of breaches of these values should be identified and punished. However, it is necessary to establish specific and clear records. In this case, the persistence condition will help to eliminate the risk of reversing the authorisation for trivial and one-off actions. It is also worth noting that the committee has adopted an amendment relating to compulsory insurance against civil liability for pharmacists, related to pharmaceutical care and the provision of pharmaceutical services, in line with solutions for other medical professions, such as in the doctor's and dentist's profession laws or the profession of nurse and midwife. This is precisely related to the use of pharmaceutical care and the provision of pharmaceutical services. The amendment concerning the administration of preventive vaccination by pharmacists was also taken into account. This is such a novel, the Health Committee has tabled such an amendment In accordance with the provisions of the Act on the prevention and control of infectious infections and diseases in humans. Allowing vaccination, especially in the face of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and the need to carry out population vaccinations for influenza, is a step in the right direction to exploit the potential of the pharmaceutical profession. I would like to remind you that 12 European countries have such a recipe and that farmers carry out such vaccinations there. At the meeting of the Committee on Health, editorial and legislative amendments were also tabled, and there were 7 of them. Mr. Marshal Tomasz Grodzki also spoke, who said that the bill was indeed very expected, but we, as senators, cannot enter into something that... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...which is currently in a deplorable state. It seems to us that we also need to take into account the voice of entrepreneurs. That is why we want the Senate to amend this law in order to reach a consensus that is good for both parties. The law shall enter into force 3 months after the date of publication, except for the entry into force of Article. 83 point (9) (a) a, concerning a new solution, which is continued, which enters into force 12 months after the date of publication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u130	Thank you very much. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Senator Alexander Swed wants to ask such a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, I have a question. For a moment, this report has faded so slightly, and I do not know if this issue has been raised... Was there any mention at the committee's meeting of the length of time for the person who obtained the right to pursue the profession of pharmacist to indicate changes in the data contained in the register of pharmacists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u132	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u133	This issue was not discussed at the committee meeting. There are detailed provisions in the legislation on the pursuit of the profession of pharmacist... We were not discussing this at all, we were mainly discussing the articles I presented to you here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u134	Thank you. Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u135	Yes. I'd like to ask you one more thing... I'm talking about entities that can use the register. Was there any mention of what entities may use this register and how they can be consulted? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u136	Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u137	Does the senator mean the pharmacist registry that... [[Yeah, the pharmacist's registry.]] The records of pharmacists are kept by the district pharmacy chambers and this register... External entities may not have access to this register unless, at any special request, there is a criminal or court order... In any case, the register shall be kept by the District Pharmacy Chambers.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u138	Thank you. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, I have a question about, I would call it, the reception of this bill by an average citizen of ours. What really changes in the situation of our average citizen? We've already learned that these prescriptions will be continued now, and I think vaccinations... But I'd ask you to sort it out. What... Maybe not so much as an average citizen, but what will change in the life of an average citizen when it comes to contacting a pharmacist or rather a pharmacy?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u140	Thank you, Senator. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u141	Mr. Senator, thank you very much for this question. I think our views will coincide here. I've always treated pharmacies and pharmacies as such a little atrium for treatment. Please note that a patient who comes to a pharmacy often gives symptoms of his illness, and it is the doctor of pharmacy who is the first person to advise him. So far there has been no law, it has not been sanctioned, now there is a regulation, so that a pharmacist who is in the register, on the district pharmacy board, will be able to legally administer the pharmaceutical care I was talking about. So that the average patient, the customer, the beneficiary will be able to obtain such early advice at the pharmacy, which will provide such a service and will be financed by public funds.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u142	There you go, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mrs. Senator, I understand that in this way, the pharmacists get extra clearance. The question is: are these, well, yes, and not otherwise trained pharmacists prepared for this? For them, these are additional responsibilities. Even now, in this pandemic situation Remember, often there is no direct contact with the doctor, it is difficult to get to the clinic, the contact is telephone, and we meet with the pharmacist because the pharmacy is open, we enter the pharmacy and we can talk. Here's the transfer of some responsibility from doctors to pharmacists. That's how I understand it. Are our farmers really prepared for this? That's one thing. I hope so. And secondly, since it's a duty for them to do so, what does it mean for them when it comes to issues I would call it? - Permissions? - Yeah, yeah, yeah, Apart from the fact that they have such powers over citizens, of course. Is there any way we're helping them out here?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u144	I'll tell the senator right away that these are extra clearances. They will be trained in postgraduate continuing training by universities and by district apothecary councils that have their education centres. It is known that they will be able to gain specialization and will be able to provide these services, which I have already approximated quite in detail here. It will not be the services provided by the doctor, but now that we know what the health situation is, they will take over some of his duties. What does that mean for apothecaries? I have the impression, after a discussion at the Health Committee, that the pharmacists want to take care of this, because as medical workers in vocational, continuing and post-graduate training they will improve their qualifications. Only after they get these qualifications will they be able to take care of patients in their pharmacy. They must be prepared for this, there must be a register of specialisation and financial congratulations must follow. Minister... government rep told us that these services would be financed by the National Health Fund. As for the additional responsibilities, I would like to say to the senator that, years ago, it was on us doctors, that there was such an additional obligation to prescribe prescriptions and reimbursement of medicines or the level of reimbursement of medicines. Sorry if we make a mistake. - What's possible? As to whether there is a lump sum or a 30% rate, we have the financial consequences of prescribing a drug with a poor eligibility for a refund. And these are the amounts that threaten the doctor... This is not only the amount of refund costs, but also the amount of almost 300 PLN for one medicine prescribed on the reception desk. The medical community, even though it didn't agree, took it upon itself. Here I have the impression that the representatives of the Supreme Pharmacy Chamber did not raise this issue at all, that they did not want to do it. Of course, further regulations are still needed to implement this pharmaceutical care in pharmacies.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u145	I have a question for you, Senator. I understand that the pharmacists will pursue medical care... part of medical care, part of open health care. I also understand that the National Health Fund will pay for this... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: This was the answer of a government representative.]] And that's not part of the bill, is it? All right, he'll pay for it. So the pharmacists will actually do much of what they did before. If someone comes in and tells you he's got a headache, the pharmacist will tell you what medicine to use for that headache. If it's sciatica or back pain, it'll tell you what ointment to use. But the question is, how far will the pharmacist go when it comes to medical care? [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Mr. Senator...]] Because I understand there's a barrier that's been crossed. It's about vaccination. The pharmacist will be able to carry out vaccinations on his own. And here's the question: is it because he's going to be in medical care, a patient... Because it's going to be a patient relationship, not just a business relationship. Will it be necessary to sign up for pharmacies with this type of medical care? Well, I have a few more questions, but that's not important. Where's the border? Is there a part of the pharmacist that's gonna be taking care of the patient? - care paid by the national fund Will he also be responsible for any mistakes? [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: So if you...]] Is he going to answer the same as the doctor, or is there going to be a reference here to some other bill? How's that supposed to look?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u146	Similarly to the profession of doctor and dentist, a pharmacist who will undertake to provide pharmaceutical care, conduct pharmaceutical consultations or embrace someone so-called. clinical care, he will be responsible for his mistakes. The committee has therefore tabled an amendment on civil liability insurance. In the district apothecary and chief apothecary chambers, there is an ombudsman of professional responsibility, so that if there are claims for this, it will be considered by this way. The apothecary authority must also prepare for continuing training and that claims may arise due to the provision of such services. As for the records, I would like to tell the senator that this was not mentioned at the committee meeting. Well, that's a very specific point. I think the pharmacy, like any medical agent, will have to carry out some kind of record verification. I personally think it's gonna be a vestibule of treatment. If a patient has a health problem that doesn't threaten his life... 'Cause if there's a life-threatening situation, you call an ambulance, you go to an E.R. or an E.R., you go to a doctor. But if someone has a smaller problem and is waiting for a scheduled admission to a hospital or a specialist, then our fellow pharmacists can relieve us and help such a patient by consulting in a pharmacy by giving him pharmaceutical advice. It shouldn't be like this... It wasn't mentioned at the committee meeting because it's a certain novel. Well, chronic diseases should not be treated by the pharmacist. At some point this patient will get to a specialist's doctor, but then he'll go back to his pharmacy where you work a master who isn't anonymous. The pharmacist knows his patient and may have supervision of his medicines. If you do not understand something by your doctor, you may be able to help him read the instructions. In fact, it's already happening in our pharmacies. Now we're regulating it from the legal side. It's probably gonna keep medical records. Well, there's got to be a place in the pharmacy to run that kind of advice.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u147	Just one more quick question. Who's the clinical pharmacist? What's this all about? Is this the pharmacist who works... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: I've already told you this, Senator...]] ...in a clinical hospital? Is this a specialist in specific diseases, e.g. Cardiological? What does that mean? How so?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u148	A clinical pharmacist will be a kind of specialization and he will simply specialize in caring for the appropriateness of medications. I think that the program of such a specialization will still be carefully organized, because to be honest, it's also a novelty for me, and I wanted to imagine what it would be practically like. Pharmacies, as is the case with other medical professions, will be able to obtain such specialization. It'll be more than a pharmacist without a specialty. I think it's going to be very... There's gonna be a specialty exam that's gonna tell us exactly what this pharmacist's gonna do. In fact, people with various diseases go to the pharmacy. We cannot interpret it in such a way that this pharmacist will conduct the entire diagnostic-therapeutic-medical process. He will simply supervise this patient in terms of pharmacovigilance, so that this patient, for example. He didn't spend too much money on drugs that are supplements. It is known that drugstores make very good money on this, and there are reports that this can harm patients.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u149	Thank you. Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Then you're Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll be honest with you, I probably won't be able to get through these questions in time, so if I pass the time, please... [[But we can split it...]] Exactly. [[...for a few parts.]] Well, Senator. And don't take it personally, because, of course, the senator is just the rapporteur. I have no doubt, I have just fundamental doubts. I don't know if we can explain them now, because these are doubts of different kinds, but we'll start with the general rule. We remember the legislative initiative, which was defined by the words of the pharmacy to the pharmacist. It was widely criticized because it created a closed circle of people who were supposed to have the right to run pharmacys at all, and even introduced such inheritance laws that only the apothecary's heir could take over the pharmacy, etc. This, in my opinion, has reduced credibility and corrupted the image of the environment of people with high competences. These things shouldn't happen. Now there's a suspicion that this is about the slogan "patient" for the pharmacist, that we're going to assign the patient to the apothecary. This patient will not only have a pharmacy appointed for himself, but also a pharmacy appointed for himself. As we know life, we know that it's not about the rules of such a function or relationship, it's about bonding. They don't have to do this. It's practice and life then they force, because it's enough... If anything's paid for... If today the advice is not paid, then the apothecary's interest is to handle kindly, objectively instructing or informing its client, not the patient, but the client, because there is a competitive market. I don't remember using fewer pharmacies than around 20, in at least 4 or 5 cities. If I don't like some pharmacy. I'm not talking about the fact that there's an unkind or unkind man out there who can't even smile. I'm going to another one. And this law can very strengthen or stiffen the relationship, the relationship between the pharmacist and the patient, in this case more the client, because the client is not always a patient, because not everything that is bought in the pharmacy, even when it is a medicine, and even more a supplement, is something that is ordained in relation to a particular disease unit. So this is the first question, so fundamental. And two: if we go in this direction, I am afraid that this situation will not be, first of all, generating queues, second of all, causing price increases again not only of services... Well, because I understand that someone's gonna have to pay for that service right now. I don't know exactly... I've been trying to read this bill, and I don't know exactly whether the patient or the National Health Fund will be paying. But let's make it the National Health Fund. Well, that raises another question again, and this is specific, to your rapporteur as a senator, but also as a doctor by profession. There isn't any in this country. In the previous point, we talked about this for a long time. The money for doctors, for employment, for raises, for, even allowances for those who fight like on the front with the effects of the epidemic. No money for nurses, no money for midwives, no money for lifeguards, no money for equipment. Well, it's just, in general, there's not enough money for health care and health care workers, for medics. And now we have to create... Or take, because there won't be any extra, take that money from the National Health Fund and give it to the pharmacists. Today, when I have colic, the pharmacist tells me, you know, it's like this and this. And now here's what's gonna happen. I'll say, I've got colic. And the pharmacist: okay, that's 15 zlotys so I can tell you what the drug is. Of course, even if the National Health Fund pays for it, and not me... But it's a cost. And yet these companies work. Even though, of course, they have their specifics, they are not shops, they are not ordinary trade, they have their medical characteristics on the competitive market. A doctor who provides me, a marshal or anyone's service, doesn't compete with another doctor, it's not a competitive market. But the apothecary. Yeah. That's another line. I'm gonna stop here because I'm probably gonna take too long, and I'm gonna take the next one... [[Mr. Senator...]] So another one, the last one, maybe in this one, like... [[You can go back to your questions...]] Good. [[But here's the thing.]] I am also afraid of such a side effect here, namely undermining the competence, undermining the credibility of the doctor. Because it's happening even without it... right? People, especially those who are chronically ill or, well, oversensitive to their state of health, don't want to use strong or colloquial terms, compare, try to... Well, nowadays you can't get to a doctor at all. But at a normal time they try to be in 2, even 3 doctors, check, compare, etc. And now? He's gonna go to the pharmacist and he's gonna find out if he's got a good diagnosis or a bad diagnosis or a bad drug ordination and he's gonna question it... or he's gonna go to the doctor and he's gonna say, "But my pharmacist said it's not the drug, it's the drug. And to conclude, the last sentence à speaking of drugs: I did not have such a case Maybe I'm in some sort of marginal group. If I go to a doctor and I want a replacement drug, I'll be offered a cheaper one. Always more expensive. Well, I'm afraid again that those poor people who keep walking around looking at these prescriptions are looking for a price... In general there are no prices, this is the only exception, in my opinion, in which, despite the rules in force in Poland, it does not appear in a visible way to the customer. And this mostly poor man walks around, looking, afraid to even ask for a drug, wants to buy it, but doesn't know if he can afford it. How will he even be able to assess whether, in this ordination, an alternative to the ordination of a doctor is not offered a more expensive medicine? After all, the margin on a more expensive drug gives a higher amount than the margin on a cheaper one, and, so to speak, the job is the same. Yeah, so I really... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Do you want me to answer the question?]] I'm almost done. [[Mr. Senator...]] Avalanche, avalanche of doubt. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: I was waiting for the question.]] Avalanche of doubt. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: I don't know what it is...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u151	Senator, are you able to respond? 'Cause it's wide...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u152	I mean, yes... Because I didn't get a question from the senator. I've picked up a number of doubts about the patient's care. I don't think that's the subject of this bill. Please... Really, I take care of patients every day and when I recommend drugs, I look at prices, at refunds, I say there's a cheaper, more expensive option, and the patient makes a choice. Because patients are also conscious, even when they're poor, they'll do anything for their health. I don't always recommend supplements... It is known that drugstores currently operate a little bit like shops, they persist with the sale of supplements, but there is competitiveness. I don't think a patient would be part of a pharmacy under this law. The patient decides, the patient chooses where he wants to go. If you like your master and he cooperates well, there will be good cooperation between the doctor taking care of the patient with this master to avoid complications, drug interactions, polypragma... That's what an integrated care system is. I'm not afraid of this change, I'm not even afraid of the competition, that the pharmacist comes into our jurisdiction. We should take care of the patient together, i.e. receive feedback, know what the patient is treating, what supplements he is taking, which are now without order and composition sold in various pharmacies, because the Polish patient sometimes prefers a supplement for 100 PLN than a good drug for 10 PLN. That's why I see a good direction here in patient care. There will always be doubts, Senator, because when there is something new, there is doubt. But that's our business, the medics, how we're gonna put this into practice. I think that just as a patient chooses a doctor, also in private health care, not only in public, he will choose a pharmacy, a pharmacy that will compete with another pharmacy, and nice, good service, even with regard to pharmaceutical care, should also be important here.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u153	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. [[But the extra...]] No, no, Mr. Senator... [[... extra...]] ...in the next series. [[Oh!]] Senator, I'm sorry, but you just can't dominate your speech about the pharmaceutical bill. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u154	I agree with Mr. Marshal in all his ways. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm serious. I understand the idea of this law, the state wants to use the knowledge of pharmacists gained in medical studies in a comprehensive way. And that's a very good solution, step in the right direction. I have two concerns. One is, in part, I think Mr. Senator Szejnfeld expressed this concern, namely the doctor's contact with the pharmacist. First question: when will the pharmacist be obliged to send this potential patient who comes to him as a client, to the doctor? And the second question is, is what the doctor says sacred? I mean, if a pharmacist can change a diagnosis, maybe not so much as a diagnosis. the method of administration of the medicine. That's once. And the second fear is this. Well, it can happen here, unfortunately, I would call it paperwork, because I don't know what kind of documenting is going to be. We were talking about the fact that you would have to keep medical records in case of continuous patient care so that you could have an insight into the history of what happened to him before. Question: Is there no danger here that there will be more of these papers than drugs in the pharmacy, more paper binders than medicine shelves? And there's another line. I am a teacher by profession and among others. I've been tested like a guinea pig for a career promotion. This promotion was then born into something strange, because you had to add more training, paperwork, etc., all to prove that you were a good teacher, and of course to go a step higher in financial congratulations. Here it should be as rightly noted that it is the market, the competition should decide. If a particular pharmacist is more likely to pass a headache after what he ordaines than another, then the first one will have a greater take. But the question is, are we going to let this happen, or are we going to force pharmacists to continue, let's say, to get promoted professionally, to keep showing themselves to other papers, not really knowing? And this actual knowledge is rather... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: I will be happy to answer this question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u155	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u156	Mr. Senator, improving medical qualifications, whether among doctors or among nurses, is more than just paperwork. To get this paper, you have to do some training, some courses, pass the exam, and it has to be done. Ladies and gentlemen, medicine is Pendolino's speeding train, and if we don't raise our qualifications, we're not gonna treat our patients well. And yet, we are here to ensure a high level of medical services. And I think... here you are raising issues that were not widely discussed at the committee meeting because no one had any doubt that this is a good trend and that this is a good bill, expected by the pharmaceutical community. And, as I understand it, they want to take the trouble. And it's not just about the money. Because patients are gonna come to the pharmacy for advice anyway, because they can't get to the doctor. As for the medical records, Mr. Senator, so I take you, you are always very thorough, very prepared. It doesn't have medical services without medical records. If someone doesn't fill out the medical records, they're making a big mistake. And I have to tell you, in the era of electronic documentation... That's the kind of documentation I run, too, making backups on a hard drive. And every time a patient leaves me, he gets recommendations. So far, it's in paper form. Perhaps someday it will be an integrated system, where through logins, as for banking, medical workers, including not only doctors and nurses, but also pharmacists, in terms of their services, will have access to information about the patient. For now, the recommendations are printed in paper form and the patient has them with him. I think we're gonna work with pharmacists so we don't get in the way so that the pharmacist doesn't order something... or undermine the competence. I already said this before, as I answered the senator's question, Marshal Borusewicz: I think this is such a moment... that the pharmacist comes in when the patient can't get to the doctor for a long time, in case of light illness. If someone has a serious illness, believe me, often such a patient will not come to the pharmacy, just call for medical attention and go to the S.R. or to the hospital. To me, it's quite logical and unambiguous. There'll be some mistakes. It's gotta move on. We want to work with pharmacists on patient care. As far as the other issues are concerned, no one here is anonymous, no doctor, no pharmacist. You can always call your friend if there's some sort of omission or undermining of authority. At least, as I come from the medical board, if there's such a thing even between doctors, I call in person and discuss the guy is a guy, not a ship, to explain the problems right away.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u157	Thank you. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u158	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as qualifications are concerned, I would very much agree with the Senator rapporteur here. I have this question: does the pharmaceutical profession law regulate how qualifications courses taken abroad will be recognised? Will they be equivalent to courses in the country? What will be the procedure for accepting such a course? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u160	As far as courses taken abroad are concerned, the same applies to the profession of doctor or nurse... If this is in the countries of the Union, the relevant district board of the Pharmacy Chamber will recognise the qualifications. Every improvement in skills, qualification is confirmed by the appropriate certificate, there are educational points. I think they'll be recognized.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u161	Thank you. Mr. Senator... [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: But there was no mention of this at the committee meeting, no one took this thread.]] Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u162	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, the question of a more general nature... And before that, I'd like to refer to Senator Alexander Swede's question and ask if there's a deadline for these courses to be, I don't know, nostriched. That's one thing. And the other thing. I would really like to ask about the number of pharmacists and pharmaceutical technicians in Poland. Are they missing? We have allowed, as I understand it, the employment opportunities of pharmacists outside the European Union. Therefore, I would like to ask if there are no technicians available, whether there are no pharmacists available and what is the number of pharmacists in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u163	As far as I'm concerned, there's no shortage of technicians. The number of pharmacists... Now I'm not gonna tell you exactly what she's like. All I know is that when the pharmacy's pharmacy bill came in, the number of drugstores dropped, exactly from 15,000 to 12,000. After discussions, a broad public consultation with the pharmacist community is considered to be about 10,000 pharmacies. But this pharmacy bill for the pharmacist as if it forced the pharmacy owners to have a pharmacist, a pharmaceutical master. And it can't be, according to the law, e.g. the situation that there is no change or when the pharmacy is open, such a master's degree. And maybe that's why there's an open road for pharmacists outside our country. However, as you know, once such pharmaceutical care is in place, such a way of patient care will be possible only and only for pharmaceutical Masters, not for technicians.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u164	Thank you very much. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. And this term...]] [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor: You were talking about the nostrilization of your diploma...]] Mr. Senator Ambrosik, please repeat. [[I think the senator already knows what I'm asking. I was asking if a date was being introduced.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u165	When it comes to recognising the qualifications of a doctorate in pharmacy or... Because you didn't tell me if it was a diploma... One issue is the completion of pharmaceutical studies abroad, then the relevant committees They're nostriking this diploma. These nostrils have so far been carried out by medical universities. The law regulates the question of a pharmaceutical verification exam for pharmacists outside the Union. With regard to doctor's postgraduate education, the relevant body of the District Pharmacy Chambers will decide to recognise such a diploma as regards continuing training. It is known that if someone wants to do specialization or raise their qualifications, then after the end of the course, the District Pharmacy Council recognizes this qualification and checks it with an exam.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u166	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Does Senator Szejnfeld have any questions? [[Although the Senator rapporteur does not convince me, I will allow myself to no longer ask further questions, I will listen to the ministry's and the government's relations.]] Thank you very much. There are no further questions for the Senator of the rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Did Minister Gadomski... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: No. Miłkowski.]] Miłkowski... Oh, yeah. Would Minister Miłkowski like to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Maciej Miłkowski: Yes.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u167	Thank you very much. I thank the rapporteur, Senator, who presented this bill so beautifully. I would also like to present some information, some issues that have been raised, mainly concerning pharmaceutical care, what it will look like, whether they are public-funded benefits or not, and questions about the principles of education, the rules of admission of people from abroad, as is the case. As regards the basic information that was asked here, i.e. about part of the pharmaceutical tasks, i.e. specialist care, pharmaceutical care, the situation here is that pharmaceutical care is a health care service. This was included in the Public Health Benefits Act. Since it has not yet been defined what the guaranteed provision looks like, we are currently preparing a pharmaceutical pilot with pharmacists and how this pharmaceutical care will look like in this respect, how we will carry out a drug review, what the effect of this drug review will be on the specialist, pharmaceutical services that the patient carries out... There was talk of polypragma. Recently, a lot has been said about the fact that patients in Poland often take more medicines than the average in Europe, that they abuse drugs. The senator paid attention to the abuse of dietary supplements to a significant extent, possibly also to the interaction of medicines and dietary supplements. This is also something that the pharmacist will be able to pay very much attention to during this visit. What is very important here was also the medical records, the cooperation between the doctor and the pharmacist. The plans are that this documentation will be in electronic form immediately; we are preparing piloting here. Of course, for this documentation it is necessary to amend the regulation on the scope of data, to keep medical records under the Act on the Rights of the Patient and the Ombudsman. As there are specific rules for hospitals, for outpatient care, so will the rules for pharmacists. So that there will be full cooperation with doctors. There were questions about the possibility of switching drugs to cheaper drugs. Well, it's already specified in the current regulations that pharmacists and technicians always have to inform the patient about the cheaper alternatives to the medicines in question. It has to be made clear here that when it comes to drugs that are more expensive... The drugs are placed in the so-called. limit groups, therefore, if the drug is similar and has a different trade name, the pharmacist earns exactly the same because the margin is uniform, it is counted against the limit posture. Therefore, selling more expensive drugs, pharmacist or pharmacy does not make any more money. When it comes to questions about people outside the European Union who want to have a pharmacist... In the European Union, the education system is defined, there are uniform rules. Therefore, a person outside the European Union must pass a pharmaceutical examination, a verification examination that takes place twice a year. There is a unit under the Ministry of Health, the Medical Examination Centre in Łódź, where such pharmacists can volunteer. And this exam will be carried out by this unit. Of course, after passing the district examination, the Chamber shall immediately issue those persons the right to pursue their profession. These are the main elements in this area that you have pointed out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u168	Thank you. Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. And I'll ask the Minister right away. Whether the integration of pharmacists into the healthcare system will imply that each patient will have to use one pharmacy, which means that it will be just as with first contact doctors, that someone will register, etc.? That's one question. And the other. What does the term "clinical pharmacist" mean? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u169	First question: will the patient be assigned to one pharmacist? No, there's no such expectation that it's a regular pharmacist's care. We are currently working on those products that a pharmacist can make. This is often a training for a new medicine - especially in the case of e.g. asthma, COPD is necessary for the proper use of medicines Is it this pharmaceutical advice, documented, checking, all the pharmaceutical intelligence you're taking? We plan that such consultations will be for individual groups of individuals, for patients who have clinical indications that one or two of these pharmaceutical advices can be carried out. The scope of these benefits is not clearly defined, but there are certainly no plans for a person to be obliged to use any one pharmacy. Like the senator said, you can use 20 pharmacies. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]] When it comes to specialization in clinical pharmacy, it must be said that these specializations are many, there is also pharmacy for industry. Clinical Pharmacy is intended for pharmacists working in stationary healthcare providers. It is a pharmacist who directly cooperates with doctors who cooperate with doctors and has an effect on the treatment process of patients. Of course, as so far, it is also on the therapeutic committee, which agrees, together with doctors, what medications should be used in a given hospital. He's a member of the patient's therapeutic team, and especially those powers... We'll expect as many pharmacists as possible to choose this specialty, get it. We want the pharmacist in the hospital to be an essential part of medical support.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u170	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Benjamin Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u171	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Two questions for the Minister. The government plans to inoculate about 31 million Poles against COVID. The vaccine producers' records say they have to be administered in 2 doses at an interval of 3 weeks. Approximately 62 million COVID vaccines are therefore to be administered. What government sees the possibility of this process without the participation of pharmacists? The latest data tells us that we can now inoculate about 100,000 patients a day. Can we do this without pharmacists? Second question. When does the government plan to introduce pharmaceutical care? The provisions of the contested law are very laconic in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u172	As far as vaccinations are concerned, there are about 30 million adults in Poland. It is not yet clear whether all vaccines that appear will require double vaccination because these vaccines have not yet been authorised by the European Medicines Agency. Various vaccine variants are being tested for those vaccines that are expected to appear in the near future. At least one of these vaccines is first tested as a single dose vaccine. But, of course, the European Medicines Agency has to approve this, so it may be a two-dose vaccine. So it is not yet clear exactly how many of these vaccines should be, or 60 million for the entire population, or possibly, depending on how the percentage of individual vaccines will be used, respectively, less than 40 million. Of course, it is also very important that the 60 million vaccinations in question are based on 100 percent vaccination of the population, and it is known that if the vaccination is from the vaccination category recommended, the person concerned will decide whether or not to receive the vaccination. There is no country where 100% the population benefits from the recommended vaccination, which means we will definitely not reach the 100% ceiling. Using pharmacists for this... When it comes to who can qualify for vaccination and who can carry out vaccinations, we have a law on infectious diseases, where it is specified, who can qualify and who can vaccinate, what powers it should have. This is the basic law for all pharmaceutical professions, also nurses who do not have in their act information about what vaccines and to what extent they can vaccinate. This law divides into 2 types of vaccination: compulsory vaccinations are mainly about children; this is a slightly different group of vaccinations recommended for the rest of the... For today's qualification can be done by a doctor or felcher, and the vaccination can be done by a nurse and, of course, by a doctor or felcher. We plan to expand the competition group, a group of people who will be able to carry out vaccinations. It is likely that there will be a special law necessary to carry out this whole process efficiently, which will determine the persons who have the right to immunize or qualify for vaccination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u173	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u174	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you about the recognition of qualifications courses held abroad. According to the information presented by the Minister here, there is an indication, as I understand it, that all persons following courses in the Member States of the European Union... Such courses would be recognised and those taken outside the European Union would no longer be. Yes? Am I getting this right? What about the United Kingdom, which was recently a member of the Union? Will the courses that were organized in the UK be recognized?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u175	I do not know exactly what the directive looks like when Britain leaves the European Union... here we are talking about the admission of pharmacists... about the issue of the right to pursue the profession of pharmacist. As of today, these people have most likely been educated in this area in accordance with the EU Directive. So most likely you will be able to accept these people independently... This is a directive that actually applies to all medical professions, and there is only a definition that single studies must last at least 5 years. We in Poland have 6-year studies in both medical and pharmaceutical fields. Courses in other countries, i.e. third countries... Well, we need to verify the knowledge here. Of course, it's a condition for studies of at least five years. There are different types of studies in the world, and sometimes they are studies that do not meet the requirements of the European Union. This is to be at least 5 years old, there is a verification exam and the pharmacist has to confirm his skills. Thank you. [[Can I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u176	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u177	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I would like to ask you what I asked the rapporteur Senator earlier. That wasn't on the board, and I'm talking about the pharmacist registry. Do you have any idea what time the Minister has for a person who is entitled to pursue the profession of pharmacist to indicate changes in the data in that register, the record of pharmacists?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u178	As I said before, the pharmacist should inform his district chamber immediately in case of any changes, i.e. in case of a change in the jurisdiction of the chamber... And this data is available to eligible persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u179	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u180	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm still interested in these new pharmaceutical licenses, but seen from the pharmacy's client side. Here's the question. Client's coming... Whether these possibilities are already specified in the bill or, as you call it, those products that the pharmacist might be... Of course, I'm not talking about drugs, it's about service products, so I'd call it. Will they only be defined in agreement with professionals? That's the first line. When will the customer finally be able to use it, which is to go into the pharmacy that's gonna be written on the sign: we do both, and this, besides selling drugs? That's the other one. And a third. As I understand it, it's to be refunded by the NFZ. The question is, what are you going to refund? It's also about the way you document it, because then you're gonna be checking who's taking your money. Is it going to be a refund for a person, a patient, or, in this case, a customer, as in the POZ, or is it going to be, I don't know, a specific pharmaceutical consultation, or an event that's going to happen about a minute before you sell it? Or maybe it'll be done in another way, for example. as part of an increased margin, depending on what else the pharmacist will offer during the sale, let's face it, drugs? What will these methods of refund be, and are these levels more or less known? Is that gonna pay off for the farmer? The question is simple: is it better to sell any drugs without, I would call it, pharmaceutical aid, or should I spend more time on this general aid, pharmaceutical consultations, and sell less? Is it clear what's going on? Do you maximize profits based on quality or the amount of services you provide?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u181	As far as pharmaceutical services are concerned, this is an additional benefit that can be provided in a pharmacy, non-binding, optional, because not every pharmacy has such opportunities and not every pharmacist is willing to provide such services, as some of them may require a lot of knowledge. Just as education systems have not been prepared in the field of diploma training, there is now no clear education system in this area. We assume, and this is what we have pre-prepared, that the National Health Fund will pay the service fee-for-service, i.e. for a specific service that has been performed, e.g. for pharmaceutical advice, specialist for a patient who has multi-morbidity and, suppose, takes at least 10 medications or for the elderly. In this case, there is one such advice or cycle of advice to follow and the NFZ will pay for it. I will say that our estimates are that, in fact, the health system is paying off, because in the case of polypragma, it is not enough that the patient buys more medicines unnecessarily, i.e. it is cost and for the patient, then the additional cost of treatment for this patient is very high. We estimate that this service should turn to the health system, the system as a whole. Of course, as I said, there are other services, e.g. preparing the patient for proper use of medications because some medications are special, special, it is difficult to even... I mentioned inhaled drugs. Sometimes a very important element is that you take the full dose of the medicine, because the effectiveness of the treatment depends on it. In many areas, how the patient starts treatment, e.g. diabetes patient, you need such advice. Often doctors don't have time for this, they don't do it in full, so it's important for somebody to relieve the pressure. We plan that on 1 July the first pharmaceutical services will be financed and implemented by public funds in Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u182	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Michał Seweryński.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u183	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? [[Yes, Mr. Marshal, we can hear you. You're welcome.]] I have a question for you. Minister, what's it like? On the basis of this law, will the pharmacist be able to give medical advice and prescribe medication, or will he not be able to provide medical advice?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u184	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u185	Of course, it's about pharmaceutical advice. There are two things here today. As far as public-funded pharmaceutical care is concerned, details are not yet ready, data on how, for what and how the NFZ will pay. This is a guaranteed benefit and must be performed. As I said, we are planning to start financing the first pharmaceutical care services from 1 July. Anyway. Senator, rapporteur. She was talking about it, too. Pharmaceutical advice, advice from pharmacists has always been implemented. These are advice by the window. When a patient comes with some minor health problem, cough, cold, the pharmacist always helps. This has always been the case, in such cases there is no need for medical records. This is a normal sales service of a very qualified person, which is a pharmacist.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u186	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u187	Thank you very much. Minister, there are many questions, but the key issues are the ones that concern funding. There were questions, but there were no answers. What I've heard from the Minister so far doesn't explain anything. Who, how much, how much, on what basis will he pay, etc. In my opinion, it disqualifies the bill at all, because in this case... If there is such a shortage of money needed to protect health, then how are we supposed to add another, so to speak, a source of funding, in an unknown size and on unknown terms. There's nothing to talk about. There are further questions, e.g. about the protection of personal data. When it comes to medical services, whether it's about POZ or hospitals, it's all regulated, and it's very regulated. Right? Few of these issues are regulated not only by the possession of personal data, but also by the transfer of personal data. If a family doctor directs a medical examination, he decides to be ordained by a specialist, then the specialist must have the appropriate knowledge. Most people, if it is not that I define it legally, actually cooperates with certain primary doctors or specialists. And it's not here. We heard the pharmacist knows his client. He doesn't know me. I'm sure no one knows where I buy drugs. If I'm in pain, I ask what I can take. And the history of the disease is very important. We all, non-medics, know that the history of the disease is fundamental to diagnosis and ordination. The apothecary won't know the history of the disease unless you're expecting it to be. And if it is, what are the rules for him to know this disease history? The customer, as I understand it, has the right to use various pharmacies and services of various pharmacists, pharmacists. Honestly, I just can't imagine it. As it is to be such a common movement, we will see how it will be done, how it will be done, how it will be done, okay, but if it is to be in Greater Poland to say, then it must be arranged first, procedures must be indicated, everything must be regulated in the law and then we should move on. And here's the thing: first the idea of a good one, I won't argue with the idea of a law now, and then I'll find out. Well, not really. To sum up, I'm going to ask you if you can clarify the financial issues and issues regarding the apothecary's knowledge of the patient's medical history today, and in the future, as it turns out, the patient. I'm also asking about the procedures for transferring this knowledge to another apothecary, another pharmacist to whom the day after tomorrow or in a month's time, in six months' time, this client, the patient, will decide to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u188	As regards the individual price lists that are used for homogeneous groups of patients, outpatient advice or even capital financing in basic health care, these price lists do not apply and are not included in the Act on the profession of doctor or even in the Act on the profession of nurse and midwife. There are no specific price lists, because this is the way the health system is arranged. There's probably no such thing... I don't know about the Law on Lawyers, but there may not be all the rules that are agreed in the notary, because this is not the place where such things should be established. Plus, there's a whole tariff agreement system. As of today in Poland, tariffs are implemented by the Agency for the Protection of Medical Technologies. These are benefits that are guaranteed benefits or benefits that are carried out in piloting. This is the agency's job. The whole process is shown in the Law on the provision of public-funded healthcare rather than in the Act on individual medical professions. When it comes to the protection of personal data and the transmission of medical data to individual patients, the health information system is so designed that the patient moving in the course of his life between individual units of the health system... Each unit shall keep medical records and all those activities shall be financed by public funds and shall be transferred to the health information system to which the patient has access. In fact, for the last 10 years, each of us has had complete information on the individual patient's account about the prescriptions he made at the pharmacy, which he received from public funds, in which pharmacy, how much he paid for these drugs, and how much he paid for the state budget, how much he paid for all the specialist advice and all the hospitalizations. All these data are in each patient's individual account and each patient has an insight into them. Each patient has the right to authorise his/her doctor and will be able to authorise his/her pharmacist to inspect his/her medical records, as it is often so that the patient does not remember everything, especially the elderly do not know exactly their medicines. Therefore, the pharmacist should know and will know what the patient is prescribed for. That's what this service is all about, to analyze the medications you're taking. As we discussed, polypragma is not related to the fact that the patient is under supervision by one doctor... A patient with multi-morbidity is often led by many specialist physicians and not always all medicines taken can be combined, sometimes there may be interactions between them. Care, advice from a pharmacist is essential here. Pharmacies are representatives of those medical professions that are entitled to... According to the Personal Data Protection Act... The examination of medical records is set out in the Patient Rights Act and the Ombudsman. There is a legal delegation to issue a regulation on keeping documentation... And this will be the case in the case of another profession, the profession of pharmacist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u189	Thank you very much. Senator Szejnfeld wants to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u190	Thank you very much for your answers, but they do not dispel doubts or even raise new ones. The Minister said the patient will authorize the pharmacist... Well, as an analogy, that's what it looks like. As I said, Mr. Minister, too, if we use medical services from doctors... It's a very limited circle of people. It's 1, 2 or 3 doctors, for example. Family doctor plus a few specialists. But it's just a few people. And we use pharmacies, I'm not talking about smaller towns... Living, for example. Warsaw, we use this pharmacy, which is on the way, not necessarily nearest, etc. Every time it's a pharmacist's authorization, every new one, every one of them, would it be for inspection? Well, we could be afraid of this effect, which I was talking about earlier, asking the senator rapporteur a question, namely the effect that I would call the patient's attachment to the pharmacist. Yeah, like we are now attached to a particular family doctor. That's one thing. And the other thing. The Minister in response to previous questions, and also referring to mine when it comes to the ordination of medicines and replacement medicines, as well as the question of margin that there is no risk here, refers to only refunded medicines. Of course, I do not know this industry to the extent that I know what percentage of medicines is refunded in the market at all, but it seems to me that the average customer probably uses mostly refunded medicines, not about supplements, but about drugs, not refunded. Well, you don't run to a doctor to get a prescription for ibuprom or pyragin. And if so, that fee is 100%. Therefore, in this story, which could possibly have been accessed by the Minister, this will not be the case. It is not enough if someone is supplying at one pharmacy or in two, then this pharmacist after some time remembers that the person more often buys an app, not ibuprom etc., but society is mobile today, so if you use many such facilities, then there is no institutional or historical knowledge at the apothecary. I'm not talking about the fact that most pharmacies work a lot of people, not just one. So here I have doubts whether this history of the disease, even if it had access to it, solves these problems. And, of course, we're not here to solve the problem that the Minister was talking about, i.e. the question of identifying or recommending alternative medicines. In terms of those ordained with a prescription, yes, but not the others. The margins are related to prices. The economic efficiency of the company causes, so it must be said, that alternatively you should indicate a more expensive drug, and not a cheaper one, it is natural. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u191	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u192	Yes, of course, the senator is right. The prices of drugs that have... Official prices apply only to medicines reimbursed. These medicines have a precise margin. For both wholesale and retail sales Their prices are uniform throughout the country. Unrefundable drugs have the price they set, whether they're pharmacists or wholesalers. Well, it's a normal market economy. We know there's a game going on in the unrefundable drug market. Patients know where they can buy cheaper drugs, often looking for such drugs. We don't have that kind of information, although we already know to a large extent... We have accurate data on all non-refundable medicines, because the patient's records contain information about all prescription medicines, not just those refunded. That changed January 1, last year. This information is also available to you. Pretty often you also have information about medicines that are sold without a prescription. Well, it can even be dietary supplements, if they have been saved on the reception desk. The prescription generally applies to medicines refunded, but since IT systems support the doctor in preparing the prescription, the reception desk sometimes contains not only medicines refunded, but also medicines not refunded. A patient who carries out a prescription for unrefundable drugs will find all the information in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u193	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u194	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm sorry to ask you this in so much detail, but I think it's kind of a revolution. I take this law as an entry into a longer process as an initiation. This will require a number of real and technical actions, probably also legislative ones. It's practically touching everyone. Well, everybody's gonna meet or meet the pharmacy. This law applies to all citizens; it is not narrow. That's the last series of questions. Do I understand correctly, Minister, that from now on the pharmacist will have 2 types of patient services? On the one hand, there will be a consultation service Let's assume that the drug itself will be paid separately, and on the other hand will be the drug itself? Is that possible? I'm asking theoretically. That someone gets this first service, gets a pretty detailed explanation of what he should be taking, but he's not gonna buy a drug in that pharmacy? Well, technically, it's possible. And then there's the second line. Are we precursors in Europe, in the European Union, or has someone already taken this path? Are we implementing a system that has already been tested, tested, or are we throwing ourselves into deep water and doing it first? Well, as far as education is concerned, we remember how our nurses were going abroad on a mass trip. They were very well educated and quietly located on the foreign market. So the last question is, are our pharmacists already here? I'm not talking about those courses that will be, but about the knowledge they gained in college. Ready to take such action. Well, the fact that they're actually doing this kind of thing, we've heard it, but it's whether they're fully theoretically prepared for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u195	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u196	Of course, these are completely independent services. I'm talking about buying a drug and getting pharmaceutical care. This is not related to any extent, it does not have to be related, because it is a completely different thing, which means there is no relationship here. Pharmaceutical care is already well known on the European market. Some countries have much better this pharmaceutical care, among others. It's Britain. We have a lot of experience in this area. Even Polish pharmacists not only from Europe, but also from the United States, who prepare pharmaceutical care, help us, advise us on how she should look, so that we get ready for this. So we're not the first. We will gradually implement this pharmaceutical care. There's gonna be more services, so it's not gonna be... As is the case with a basket of guaranteed benefits or further lists of medicines reimbursed, where further medicines are financed. Here, too, we plan that further benefits will continue, depending on how the product will be described, how we agree. Of course, there is also another possibility, that some pharmaceutical services can also be financed in Poland by a patient, if this is a service not guaranteed, but we will describe it together, so that the patient can buy such a service for himself. The last question concerned graduate and post-graduate education. There are actually the biggest jobs to do here. The first thing is graduate education. For today... In general, the Polish education system is very well assessed in the world in the field of medical, nursing and pharmaceutical departments. However, there is virtually no pharmaceutical training at the pharmacy program. We are working very hard to take these things into account both in the field of diploma education, which is why there is a great deal of interest and where these work is progressing as well as in post-graduate education. We also work very closely with the Postgraduate Medical Training Center. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see... no more questions. So thank you very much for the comprehensive answers. I'm opening a discussion. None of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gromko, Durlak, Golba, Godyla, Bladder have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. You have made proposals of a legislative nature in writing, Senator Wojciech Necessary. The discussion is closed. Does the representative of the government want to respond to the legislative proposal put forward? No. Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Health Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 254 and the report of the Commission In print No 254 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Health Committee, Senator Alicia Chybicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u198	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Health a report on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The Commission met on 17 November and asks that the draft resolution, which is contained in the print mentioned by your marshal, be adopted by you. I would like to say that 7 amendments were made during the committee meeting and we ask that these amendments be voted on. Now, maybe I'll give you a little bit of an idea of what this bill is all about. The amended law amends 5 laws: the Law of 27 August 2004 on the provision of public-funded healthcare; the Law of 5 December 1996 on the Competition of Doctors and Dentist; the Law of 15 April 2011 on Medical Activity; the Law of 28 April 2011 on the Information System for Health Protection; the Law of 16 July 2020 on the amendment of the Act on the Competition of Doctors and Dentist. The main objective of the changes, as explained in the bill's justification, is to eliminate oversupply of medical services, and to adapt investment in the health sector to the real needs of society and to enable the provider to develop forward-lookingly in line with local health needs. This was discussed at the committee meeting. 3 groups: cost of 2 million, cost of 2.50 million and cost of more than 50 million. A central committee shall be set up to assess. As was said at the committee meeting, this is another centralization. But everyone present at the committee meeting was in all agreement that this law deserves support, because its purpose is very well founded, because it is about not multiplying individuals that do not obtain a contract or on which medical services there is no need. There was only a question as to whether the central committee should actually do so or rather the regional committee. As I said, the committee recommends that you adopt amendments which are in fact legislative in nature. There were no substantive comments that would change the proposed law in a particular way. The Commission voted in favour of it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u199	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No questions. Well, thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Health has been authorized to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work... [[Voice from the room: He's in hiding.]] [[Voice from the room: He's on his way.]] We're waiting for the Minister. He's on his way from the Sejm to us, as far as I know. Well, I guess I'll announce a short technical recess until the Minister gets here. [[Adjournment from 16 minutes 13 to 16 minutes 27]] I'm reopening the session. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Health has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? We have the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Sławomir Gadomski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u200	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very sorry for the delay and for the fact that you had to wait for me. It's not a matter of dinner, it's not something else. I was in the Seym, finishing my questions, I'm sorry. It was hard for me to trade with Minister Miłkowski, I couldn't leave him without even a word of introduction. I'm really sorry. I'm just catching my breath and we're moving. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the proposed changes, the revision of the Public-funded Health Services Act to the extent that it concerns the submission, i.e. the instrument for assessing investment proposals in the health sector, is primarily to update certain assumptions that have been adopted in this system and have, in a sense, been established over a period of several years. In fact, the very instrument for assessing these investment proposals was introduced several years ago, in 2016, by an amendment to the Law on Benefits. We already have a few years of experience as a health resort, a few years of some thought about the functioning of this system and it is simply time for an amendment. This applies in principle to a system of good, a system that has been successful, whose assumptions have ensured that the efficiency of spending was above all much higher, a system which has already put in place certain mechanisms to ensure the effectiveness of these decisions. Well, not all of them, not all of them. It seems that this system had some gaps, some imperfections. Some of them have succeeded in this project, which I am pleased to present to the High House, I hope to eliminate and ensure the effectiveness of public spending on investment and public funding for healthcare services, which are of course then implemented within this investment infrastructure, the infrastructure to which these investments concern, but also the funds of investors who decide to invest in the health sector at all. The idea is that these decisions should be smart, rational and consistent with medical needs, whether at local, regional or national level. What are the most important changes we are talking about in this bill? First of all, such a fundamental change that this law brings, this amendment, is to make the possibility of obtaining a health contract conditional on obtaining a positive assessment of the purpose of the investment. It's a mechanism that wasn't there before. In fact, it is a mechanism that guarantees both parties, both the investor and the public payer. Why? First of all, because we limit the number of situations when a beautiful investment, whether from public or private funds, is, however, In particular, in the assessment of the National Health Fund and in the assessment, if this is a trans-regional investment, the Ministry of Health or the services of the voivodship It is not intended for the needs of the region concerned. It may be excessive, it may not respond to the priority needs, it may duplicate the benefits of the centres already in place in the region. The point is to get away from this later pressure, as I think, also in the daily life of the senators. From exerting some pressure on the fact that, since a branch is already in place, a given hospital, it is essential that the National Health Fund contract it, regardless of whether it is needed or not. This mechanism will ensure that we leave this bad practice. We're leaving because the bill provides for a five-year period in which the National Health Fund... If an investor, whether public or private, does not obtain a positive assessment of the purpose of the investment, the National Health Fund cannot contract for 5 years. It's not even possible here. . medical benefits to the extent that the investment concerned. It is also a partial guarantee for the investor. Indeed, knowing that he has obtained a positive assessment of the purpose of the investment, he cannot yet count on 100% The National Health Fund will contract it, but it can count on that if competition procedures are carried out in this area, this is the extent that the National Health Fund will certainly take into account. That's one change. The second major change in this law is the extension of the circle of medicinal entities which must apply for an assessment of the purpose of the investment. First of all, I am talking about local government units. To date, this system has been designed in such a way that if the local government unit or medical entity created by the local government unit carried out an investment e.g. from EU funds, it obviously had to be subject to this investment assessment. And if he made an investment from own resources or from funds received from a self-government unit, he did not have to carry out such an assessment. We've seen cases. I hope, however, that they are not common, but incidental When, in a sense, investments were made from own resources or funds transferred by the local government unit, which in some sense... Well, it's hard to say that they fit into the map of health needs of Poland or the region. They were e.g. investments which as a follow-up covered a similar range of benefits in a given municipality in a given district. This phenomenon of some duplication of benefits unfortunately has been observed in the system for several or several years; I call it the realisation of the dreams of directors, each of whom would like to have the widest possible range of specialists, the widest possible range of health care, often going beyond the organisational and medical capacity of the institution and certainly going beyond the health needs of the region. On the one hand, the other two important areas concern certain facilitations for investors, on the other hand, a more in-depth assessment of certain investment proposals. This makes it easier to waive the need to submit an application in the IOWISZ system for investments below PLN 2 million. We carried out a detailed analysis of the applications submitted in recent years at the Ministry of Health and it turned out that the vast majority, more than 90% of all investments under PLN 2 million which were made in the IOWISZ system, were either replacement investments, or not involving any new medical services, or de facto investments in some support infrastructure, e.g. Bed disinfection station, central sterilizer room, laundry room, investments, which also from the point of view of the IOWISZ system were somewhat difficult to prove, difficult to justify according to the algorithms that functioned in this system. In our view, it is safe to relax and determine the level of 2 million as being above which these proposals need to be submitted. At the same time, we see a catalog, a small one, I'm talking about probably a dozen, dozens of investments a year. Large, strategic, trans-regional investments that we have identified, pointing to a threshold above PLN 50 million, which we think should be analysed more carefully, not only by an algorithm that is assigned to the system, but on the basis of a committee set up by this law, a committee consisting of representatives of both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, regional development or the services of the National Health Fund. All in order to look at these investments more widely, not only through the perspective of health, health needs, but also certain development needs in a given region, certain needs and opportunities to ensure that such investments are properly contracted. The point is not to have to deal with a certain excess or, so I'll put it, a shot at the needs of a given region. Finally, I would like to say that this novel also introduces some simplification of formal requirements in this process. Probably the most visible is the complete departure from the paper form of these applications. This process is to be carried out fully electronically, no confirmation will be required. But there are also some simplifications in the formal process. A good example is the multi-specialist units or investments that concerned different ranges. Until now, they had to be assessed separately. This caused some problems for many, of course, because they thought about investment in a wholesome way, and in a sense artificially in the IOWISZ system they had to break it down into ranges. We walk away from it, we simplify it. I hope that indeed... of course, the minimum formalities must be completed and this is what this instrument is used for, but it can be clearly and safe in our assessment to lose weight. Dear Marshal, High Commission, I, of course, request the adoption of this law, a law which, both during parliamentary work and in the Senate commission, did not raise much controversy. It seems that the parliamentarians and the Sejm, and in the Senate, were in agreement with the principles of this law. I, of course, if there are any questions, any needs, I am at your disposal. I would like to stress one thing: this is another element, a mechanism to ensure that investments in the health sector are implemented where they are actually most needed, that they will be implemented in a way effectively and effectively support regional or trans-regional needs. And this is also important at this point in time where we are, because these funds for investment in the health sector are record-breaking. In such a good way, as we will look at today's situation, at the possibilities arising from the Minister of Health's budget, at least for our strategic multiannual programmes, and in recent years we have introduced five such programmes... I am talking about large programs, each of which practically exceeded 500 million PLN, I am talking about huge investments which, I hope, are ahead of us, investments financed on the one hand from the Medical Fund... I suppose today or tomorrow, a bill that was the President's initiative comes into force. The medical fund is 4 billion zlotys a year, of which half, or about 2 billion zlotys today, can be used to invest in the health sector. In comparison, I will tell you what 2 billion PLN is for the sector. The total budget of EU funds for the 2014-2020 period is here talking about the measures at the disposal of the Minister of Health, which is PLN 3.2 billion within the 5-year perspective, because this is an effective period of spending these funds. Within the Medical Fund, this is 2 billion a year. In comparison, I will add that regional operational programmes, which are at the disposal of all marshals of voivodships in Poland, is, as I remember well, about PLN 6 billion in the perspective of 5-, 6-year-olds. The point is to understand what the scale of resources is. I'm just talking about the Medical Fund. And we have big challenges ahead of us and I hope... that means that the health department is actively involved in the process of building programmes under the new EU perspective for 20212027, but also in additional EU programmes. We are finalising work within the framework of the EU's React-EU project, in which we hope that more than PLN 2.5 billion will be available for the health sector, and this will be available for 2021/2023. And this is also a huge injection from the point of view of investment in the health sector. And there will also be funds under the RFF, from the EU reconstruction programme, in Poland called the National Reconstruction Programme. These funds will certainly be earmarked for investment in the health sector. We work actively in this area with both the Ministry of Funds and the European Commission. We are at the stage of negotiations or discussions about certain projects and investments, and support. I hope that there will also be a large stream of resources in the investment sector. Therefore, it is so important for us to further this law, to introduce additional control mechanisms. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Sorry I'm late again.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u201	I see. That's okay, Minister. Stay a little longer, because I see the senators are interested in asking questions. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed first came forward. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u202	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the proposed changes are as positive as possible. I believe that they will improve the system, make it even more transparent, even more transparent. I have two specific questions for the Committee on the Evaluation of Investment Proposals. How long will it take for the evaluation procedure to be carried out? What information will be included in the committee's opinion and will it be able to change? What are the criteria for assessing purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u203	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u204	Dear Marshal, Mr. Senator! The Commission is a new mechanism. The Commission's assessment of proposals, these large, over five decades, is a large control mechanism. As far as the committee's concerned about the time it takes to assess the conclusions, I'll confirm that right now... I have the impression that the law does not regulate this time in the case of precisely these investments, because there is a need for a broader look here, as I say, going beyond certain system algorithms. The IOWISZ investment application assessment system is an algorithmic system, it is a computer system. Of course, it is a system operated by experts, health department employees in voivodship offices or the Ministry of Health. There is an evaluation and a National Health Fund, and precisely representatives of these administrations, but this is an algorithm that calculates it. Of course, these strategic investments will also be assessed by this algorithm. But, as I said, this representation, which is wider than the health resort, is intended to ensure that certain opinions, such as those related to regional development policy, to regional needs, with certain conditions which correspond precisely to regional policy, can be taken into account. Because when we talk about large, 100-, 200-, 300-million-dollar investments, we have to remember that they not only have an impact on the health sector, but also often have an impact on regional policy. It is known that the exit mechanism from COVID, as we have been talking about for a long time, is a certain investment activation. This is an instrument to ensure that the economy goes through post-pandemic through this time in a fairly painless way. This assessment is therefore also intended to cover this area. But I would also like to point out that the evaluation of the committee, and that is also the answer to your question, is an opinion. The health minister shall decide whether the purpose of the investment is positive or negative. So the Minister of Health will make such a decision based on the suggestions of this committee, based on the opinion, on some reflections, whether on the basis of an algorithm or just next to an algorithm.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u205	Thank you. You're asking Senator Rafał Ambrozik.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u206	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask how important the opinion issued by the Committee on the Evaluation of Investment Proposals will be. How long is she gonna be important? I would also like to ask how many members will ultimately have this committee. Who's gonna point out these members? Who's gonna call them? And what will be the requirements for the qualifications and training of the members of this committee? Oh, and one more thing. Is there gonna be a way of appealing that opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u207	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u208	Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm afraid I didn't take the bill, but I'm about to ask my associate to send it to me, and I'm gonna be able to answer it more comprehensively... [[Voice from the room: I have...]] Oh, thank you. The answers to some of the questions asked by the senator are clearly in the bill itself, in particular the composition of the committee. The committee shall consist of representatives of the Head of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Minister for Regional Development, the Minister of Health and the President of the National Health Fund. This is the committee's composition. Are there specific requirements for the training of committee members? No, but, of course, there are certain requirements as to who might be a member of the committee, and these are in particular those who enjoy full public rights, not convicted by a final judgment, etc., as mentioned in the article. 95ea. There are also certain requirements relating to potential conflicts of interest, requirements that these persons may not be members of, for example, of the boards, supervisory authorities of medicinal entities, holding shares, participation in such a entity, etc. This is clarified in the law and these are the new changes resulting from the amendment. Of course, the committee as such, as I have already told Senator Swede, is an advisory body, an advisory body. The Commission may assist in its work with opinions. These, I think, are the most important and important in terms of this assessment, for example. opinions of voivodships, which can be collected in such a process, the marshal of voivodship, national or voivodship consultants in this area, but also e.g. Minister of Science and Higher Education, because part of the investment relates to the area related to teaching or scientific issues. You asked the senator how important it is to assess the accuracy of the investment. This is a very relevant question, because this is also an aspect that we made changes to during the revision. Previously, opinions on the purpose of the investment were unfortunately issued indefinitely. I'm saying unfortunate because I don't think it's a good mechanism. The world is moving forward, certain conditions, whether due to the provision of access to benefits, whether due to certain health needs or economic needs, are changing. As part of this amendment, we have introduced a three-year period of validity of the opinion since the date of issue. You asked me if you were entitled to an appeal. Of course, she is entitled, she is also entitled in accordance with this basic law. This path applies not only to decisions made in relation to strategic investments, those over 50 million. The appeal path applies to all applications, both to the basic law and to this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u209	Thank you very much. There are no further questions, so that thank you very much to the Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Sławomir Gadomski: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up. For the record, Senators Gromko, Swede, Bladder, Godyla and Breeza made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 262 and the committee report In print No 262 A. I would remind you that the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have recognised the need for legislative changes going beyond the matter of the law and on the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Senate's Rules of Procedure have submitted a proposal for a legislative initiative. This proposal, together with the draft law, is included in print No 271. I would remind you that the proposal for a legislative initiative is presented by the rapporteur together with the committee's report on the bill under consideration. After hearing the request, the Senate shall decide in the vote on the accession to the second reading of the bill. If the request is accepted, the second reading shall be held at the same meeting as a separate item on the agenda. Failure to adopt a resolution on the accession to the second reading means that the draft is referred to the procedure set out in Section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to take the floor and to present a report to the committee on the bill under consideration and a request from the committee to take a legislative initiative on the draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans and on the specific arrangements for preventing, combating and combating COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As you have already pointed out, I am pleased to present you with a report on the work of the Joint Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. This report is contained in print No 262 A. Well, of course it refers to print number 262, which contains the bill that we received from the Sejm. I will brief you on the content of this law. I will present it as clearly as possible, without over-building this presentation, so that it is clear what this law contains. Anyway, every one of you has access to it. Namely, this law amends the Law of 2 March 2020 on specific arrangements for the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and crisis situations. In the Official Journal of the Laws this is the item. 1842. What does the proposed amendment contain? First of all, it sets deadlines for the submission of applications for funding. Of course, it's about closing dates. This is very important for the beneficiaries, but also, of course, for the administration. For information, I will only state that applications can be submitted by 10 June 2021 and aid can be granted by 30 June 2021. A further group of provisions concerns the suspension of the application of the Law of 11 October 2013 on special arrangements for the protection of work. The justification for the suspension of this law is that the anti-covid act. yes, if you allow it, in a nutshell they will refer to it as a more favourable solution than the applicable law. The following provisions govern additional parking benefits. The Act proposes a one-off additional parking service for persons engaged in economic activities And here's an important reservation. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its I am talking about this reservation because this deadline raised doubts, and then, speaking of amendments, I will say that there is a proposal to change this deadline. I regulate in this case In addition, with regard to the exemptions from the Social Security Office, which I will talk about later, a similar principle will be applied. That entrepreneurs who are to be subject to these rules are to be defined as GDP. That also raises doubts. But it's about to happen. Further matters relating to the provision of parking services and similar criteria are taken into account e.g. in the case of exemptions from ZUS contributions, it is that in October or November of this year the trader obtained at least a 40% decrease in revenue compared to October or November of the previous year. The next group of provisions concerns the regulation of reimbursements. Further provisions concern the exchange of information between the Social Insurance Institution and the National Tax Administration. The Act also introduces rules governing the rules of control which the Social Insurance Institution will be able to carry out in the framework of this regulation. There is also provision for changes in the financing of part of the cost of doing business as well as changes in the area of the loan intended to cover the current costs of doing business. I immediately say that these two groups of regulations are about life situations, namely the death of the beneficiary and what happens to help. In my view, these are the solutions that are needed and necessary to resolve the doubts and at the same time to ensure that no further problems remain on the shoulders of the heirs. Further provisions concern the extension of the financing of the aid instruments which have so far been in operation and the cost of handling them by practically 1 January 2021 and by 30 June 2021 respectively. The next group of relevant provisions, like the group of provisions which concerned the parking of the second group of those with the greatest interest of entrepreneurs, concerns the exemption from the Social Security Office. Unfortunately, this is also emphasized. This period provided for in the Act is too short, since only one month is foreseen to be released, November, the current one which is already ending. Here, similarly to the criteria, as well as at the parking, a criterion of at least 40% decrease in turnover and, of course, the criterion of carrying out business activities under a specific PKD code was adopted. The next group of provisions are those which specify the deadlines for the submission of applications for exemption from ZUS contributions and the obligations of payers of contributions in this respect. The time limit for submission of these applications has also been set here: by 31 January 2021 at the latest. It is also important information for all who listen to us and who are interested in using this law. In this respect, too, powers are conferred on the Social Insurance Institution to carry out checks. It also introduces the possibility for the Council of Ministers to extend the exemption period by means of regulations. Well, and you can immediately say in this respect that this is also a good solution, but not perfect. Good in this respect that... Well, the experience of the last 8 months and the experience of other countries has already taught us that even when someone recognizes that the epidemic forgives, then it turns out that it is not, and certain instruments need to be re-established by laws. That's why we've already got a few of these laws that are called shields. This one is called Shield 6.0. Here we could, as I understand it, avoid further laws and subsequent names of these laws, because the Council of Ministers could extend these periods by regulations. Well, unfortunately, this solution has its drawbacks, namely that 2 conditions are required. First of all, if the situation requires it. And secondly, if the finances of the budget allow it. Well, then it can be said that these provisions are absolutely discretionary. Thus, the Council of Ministers will be able to apply this practically freely. The next group of rules are those relating to the suspension of the fair fee. And there's information here at the same time. 'Cause it's definitely important to local government. The law provides for compensation for local authorities who lose their income for this purpose. I'm on my way to the end of this bill. The following provisions set out the deadlines for the submission of applications for support, such as those laid down in the Act. 15zbbbs.15zze and 15zze2. This is where those deadlines are set for 10 June 2021 as regards the time of submission of the application and for 30 June 2021 as regards support. And there are provisions that are even less relevant to beneficiaries, but important to the administration, i.e. the provisions governing the National Employment Action Plan, provisions which impose and regulate certain obligations of the Central Statistical Office in this respect, including provisions that extend the possibility of financing statutory tasks until 30 June 2021, and transitional provisions or provisions concerning the date of entry into force. This is, in short, High Izbo, the characteristics of the structure of the bill and its contents. As I said, actually, the key issues for interested entrepreneurs and their employees are on the one hand additional one-off parking, and on the other hand, The possibility to benefit from the exemption from the payment of social security contributions. Referring to the deliberations of the joint committees, I would also like to inform you that a spokesperson for small and medium-sized enterprises has also taken part in the meeting. Mr Spokesman has presented very widely, and even to say emotionally, my point of view on the current, existing in times of crisis and epidemics of the needs of entrepreneurs, of course, especially small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, which he deals with, but also their employees. He also put forward his proposals in writing, so not only verbally, asking the High House and appealing, which I would clearly like to emphasise, in order to radically, definitely extend the circle of beneficiaries or, in other words, the circle of entrepreneurs who could become beneficiaries. He considered that the government proposal. or rather formally, perhaps, the Members' committee narrowed this circle too much and would not have a positive effect on rescuing micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized companies, if this circle had not been extended. I hope that this will be an opportunity, and my knowledge tells me, in some ways, that there will be many amendments that are expanding this circle of entrepreneurs. If the High Chamber adopts them and the Sejm accepts them, it is not only our wish for those who care about the economy and entrepreneurship in Poland but also for the Ombudsman's wish to come true. So I would urge you to take these proposals to a positive level. As the Marshal presented in his opening remarks, the joint committee also adopted an initiative under the Article. 69 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, i.e. one which contains proposals of a subsidiary nature, consistent with legislative proposals, but which go beyond this law. I will therefore present briefly to you what this bill contains and what it proposes. Firstly, the draft law proposes to extend certain dates for the entry into force of the PPK, of course it concerns employee capital plans. Two sentences on this subject, of course, without getting into the details of the bill. The law, of course, increases costs, these bureaucratic, administrative but also financial ones, on the part of entrepreneurs. For this reason, they claim Without denying the bill and its ideas In view of the epidemic, due to the increased bureaucratic costs and, above all, the financial activities of many companies, as well as the difficulties in maintaining liquidity, the deadlines for carrying out and fulfilling these obligations would be postponed. Therefore, the draft law proposes to postpone the deadline for the fourth stage to 1 January 2022, and for the second and third stages, i.e. the earlier ones, the deadline for concluding the PPK's management contracts to 31 December 2021, and the agreement for running the PPK to 10 January 2022. It also provides, of course, for rules which are colloquially called abolition, for those companies which, due to COVID, have failed to fulfil their obligations, i.e. to conclude contracts in advance. It is about not being punished, and it gives them time to conclude these agreements and fulfil their commitments on new dates. Another proposal from this project concerns companies that do not formally employ employees. Namely, when analyzing the situation on the market, especially micro-entrepreneurs, but also small companies, based on the operation of the previous 5 shields, it is very clear, also in the postulates that previous shields, previous regulations, did not take into account the situation of a huge number of companies that actually employ employees, but formally did not, because they employ them on a different basis than the employment relationship. Not much of this, it is very serious about the bill we are talking about, the fundamental one that I presented before, because its philosophy, its idea is precisely connected with the PKD, with referring to the selected group of entrepreneurs operating in the sectors or sectors concerned. And in these industries, e.g. tourism, very many companies operate on such a principle that they often have very many employees, but on contracts-orders or agency contracts, i.e. there is no employment relationship, there is no employee, but in fact there is a job and professional relationship. The result is that the company can't get help because it doesn't hire employees. And these workers stay on the ice, they can't get a parking lot; since they're not technically employees and they can't get support from another title, because they're not formally entrepreneurs, e.g. There's no talking about self-employment. And we have a white spot, a gap, which unfortunately involves a lot of drama and tragedy, especially on the side of these workers. This proposal is going this way... These people stayed on the ice, without help, they can't get anything from their businessman, because he doesn't get any help on them, and they can't ask for it either. Another solution that includes this project is, colloquially speaking, ill. Namely, the next months pass, and we have an increasing level of COVID-19 infections in Poland, and the more people get sick, it is hospitalized, the more serious, as it turns out, the problem which has not yet been noticed in the regulations. This is the fact that there are people who are asymptomatic or have only slight symptoms, after all we know about such cases, also from the medical sphere, we had here a few points earlier on the subject of health care. And most of these people are, unfortunately, transmitting the virus in their surroundings if they are not quarantined or hospitalized, of course after confirmation of infection. If these people don't apply to their employer or their doctor because they decide to survive, it's a problem because it's the source of more infections. Why don't people volunteer? There are many reasons and reasons, but the economic justification is, of course, the prevailing and most important one. When someone feels weak, but good enough to, sorry for the word, go to work, he prefers to go and get 100% a salary of more than 80% Social security. Unfortunately, we have more and more such information, including from employers who are concerned that the employee has been ill for a long time, but he hasn't informed about it, he hasn't been to a doctor, and then it turns out that he was sick. Therefore, to eliminate I'm sorry to put it this way. The economic motivation to not report to the doctor in fear of losing part of the income, and if someone makes 2,000 zlotys, has a family to support, the prospect of losing several hundred zlotys really puts him before a dramatic choice, whether to try to survive bad health and not lose money, or to go to quarantine or to a doctor and lose money... On the other hand, of course there is also a financial problem for entrepreneurs, because more and more people get quarantined, statistics you have, are available to the general public, even more people have confirmation and is isolated, not all of them want to, but they don't have to, work. Therefore, when they get sick leave, of course, as you know, this cost must be borne by the entrepreneur, so it is for the first 33 days. That's his cost. Hence, in the case of hospitalisation or quarantine, of course due to COVID, the sickness benefit was paid from the first day and immediately 100% , not 80%. Another change is the change in the instrument for maintaining or maintaining the liquidity of companies which, of course, in any crisis, and especially, are common. This instrument provides for a reduction of time for the refund of overpaid VAT from today's 60 days to 14 days. Another change, the last one, is the change concerning companies, single-member limited liability companies and private companies. Personal companies are e.g. partnerships or public partnerships. Well, as such, they are also excluded from many possibilities, although not all, to obtain aid from these shields. Here it is proposed to include them in such a way that the partners of personal companies, naturally being natural persons, can also benefit from the aid if, of course, they meet the conditions for obtaining this aid, i.e. from the parking lot. These are the main, essential proposals for the provisions of the draft law which have been notified under the article. 69. The draft of this bill, for your information, is in print No. 271. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, that would be so much from me when it comes to a brief introduction and a summary of both projects. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[I have a question.]] Senator Ewa Matecka has come forward. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u212	Thank you very much. Actually, the rapporteur answered my question at the end of his speech, but I would like to be sure. Will public companies therefore be able to benefit from these different forms of aid proposed in one or the other act? Thank you very much. [[Of course, that depends... do we have a vote?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u213	Yes, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u214	Thank you very much. Of course, it depends on which forms of help it would be. But, as I said, these companies are excluded from many forms of aid, not only as far as the so-called ones are concerned. Anticovid shields, but also for the development fund. They certainly don't have the opportunity to use the parking lot. Of course, we're talking about the partners of the company, not the employees of the company. The amendment we propose, but not in this law, but in the law notified under Article. 69, is to give these companies and their partners a chance to benefit from this aid as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u215	Thank you, Senator. You're asking Senator Maria Blanket. You're welcome, Mrs. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u216	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question about your legislative initiative. You have proposed many different solutions, and many of them have financial implications. And I would like to ask if you have done any financial analysis on what the costs of these solutions might be and what the source of their funding might be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u217	Thank you. Of course, the law that you are asking about is a complete project, which contains not only part of the legislative provisions, but also an extensive justification and, of course, an assessment of the impact of the regulation. For details, I'm referring it to this OSR. In general, I will point out that the costs of implementing this law are small. I could say with half a joke that they're actually nothing compared to the costs of all the shields that have been presented by the government so far. Each of them resulted in costs of tens of billions, 20 or 25 billion PLN, etc. And if this bill were to enter into force... Of course, this would depend on the scale, but we expect that it could cost around PLN 600 million. Accurate calculations indicate PLN 607 million. However, I would like to say right away that it is extremely difficult to calculate anything here. I think it concerns a government that presents its proposals and I understand that, and especially Members or Senators who have much more modest, so to speak, the instrumentation needed to calculate such complex issues. This is because there is no data to present everything, and there is no wise one to predict in which direction and with what force the epidemic will develop. Until recently, a few days ago, we heard from the Minister of Health that we are dealing with a downward trend. I probably heard it three or four days ago at a press conference, and yesterday it was reported that next year, somewhere within February, we might have a significant leap. Neither in Poland nor in the world is there any wise people who would tell us how to forecast the development of events, so the cost calculation It's very difficult. But taking the experience we've had, and it's already telling us something after the last few months, in the OSR we're showing these costs. What source? The same thing that applies to Shield 6.0, this basic law that we're discussing here. The proposed law is a law to say subsidiary, complementary, it is not abstract, it refers to the same situation and needs of entrepreneurs. And here is the same source of funding that the government is presenting to us.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u218	Thank you very much, Senator. You ask Senator Janusz Gromek a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u219	Mr. Senator, I would ask that question. The original version adopted by the Sejm and what you brought after our questions, these records... Is this a large scale, medium... Is that so-called? Forgotten as the senator said... With us in Kołobrzeg the whole spa and hotel area was closed, the whole industry. Forgotten about helping those little ones who cry and come and ask: what are we gonna do next? They're not big companies, they're small, 1-, 2-, 3-person companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u220	Mr. Marshal, maybe I could... [[Yes? I can't control it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] And I thought Mr. Marshal had it under control by now. [[It's not my fault.]] Especially when you're a government option, you control everything... I thank you very much for this question, because on his occasion I will extend this information a little bit by talking about the doubts raised in the joint committees, but also about the assessments of the social partners, etc. He's questioning himself... I'm gonna be honest with you, I'm signing these doubts, and I was talking about it at the committee meeting. Well, I'm calling it doubting very gently, I mean. I use a delicate concept in this area. It is a criterion that will be used to determine which companies will be able and which will not be able to benefit from the aid. This criterion is, as I mentioned, a record in the PKD. Unfortunately, the regulations contained in this law, which refer to the prevailing impact of a given entry in the PKD, do not dispel doubts. Therefore, there will certainly be amendments in this area, and I will also make them myself. As you know, we have companies that started, I'm sorry, I'm going to say colloquially, yesterday. So that it was tried to force the specified PKD codes. Well, of course, a lot of companies, especially small ones, for which the great flexibility of functioning on the market is characteristic, are typing themselves to keep this flexibility, many PKD codes. These companies, which started years ago, in turn typed in such a PKD code, which, as it turned out, was no longer so important to them... Fewly, many companies have entered as a basic PKD code, under which they have not been operating for years. The market, business has caused that the objective of action in a given industry or field is no longer valid and needs to be taken in another. So this formalistic approach through PKD, in my opinion, is not objective. I believe that a much better criterion would be the subsidy rule, namely the decrease in turnover. Entrepreneurs would like it to be a drop in income rather than turnover, because depending on the industry, turnover can barely speak in terms of how much money you earn, that is, how much real income you have, purely. But without going into polemics or income or turnover, I'm going to say that this criterion would be the most objective, not the formal, administrative, code-related criteria. When this is over, you'll see for yourself. In the amendments. Then these amendments would not have been made, and so will be hundreds of amendments, the percentage of which will be related to supplementing this catalogue with other, successive, not included by applicants, and needed, PKD numbers. If only it was about the level of income or revenue Let's not argue about whether income or income It's either there would be no amendment, or there would be one or two amendments, whether it's 30% or 40%. And that would be it, not a few hundred corrections. To conclude with the senator's question, let me put it this way: I don't know. I mean, that's gonna happen after we do our job when we settle these issues in the vote. This is not going to be the end of the matter, because only when the Sejm is dealt with and finally passed the bill will we see which companies, which Senator means, will be able to save themselves using these instruments and which are not. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u221	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u222	Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask if there are any regulations in the government project regarding people working under a contract-order contract, a contract for work. In a special way, I am interested in whether there are any solutions dedicated to young people, students, i.e. those who have often worked in those sectors which are closed or whose activities are limited. This is particularly about gastronomy. They're waiters, they're serving people. It is also an event industry, especially young women who functioned in the service of various events. That's the first question. And second question. Is there any aid in the government project dedicated to... Has the government presented any analysis of the proceeds from PIT-28, that is, the rental, in the context of what is happening today? There are online studies, young people aren't in academic centers, they're in homes, they're not renting apartments. Are there any forms of subsidy aid for those who have lost their income in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u223	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u224	The shortest question I could answer is yes and no. First line. Yes, but not all situations are regulated in such a way that companies and their employees, if they are not employed on the basis of an employment contract, i.e. within this type of employment relationship, can benefit from all forms of assistance, especially when the company formally does not employ anyone, but actually employs a lot of people. It is so often not only in those industries that the senator mentioned, e.g. gastronomy... [[Voice from the room: Fitness.]] Fitness and gastronomy. It's very common. In fact, it would be difficult to imagine that certain industries would exist at all in normal times, let alone in such a crisis, if they were to employ people on the basis of a contract of employment. These are e.g. those industries which form part of tourism. A huge number of tourism workers, certainly tens of thousands, are people who are not employed under an employment contract. In many areas of service, this is the case. There's a big problem, and it's growing as I hear it. in the case of people who are engaged in the profession of foreign language teacher. We have help, this bill also provides for it, for companies that have a science in their PKD. But if we don't deal with the other side of the coin, which is not only an entrepreneur, but also an employee, many of these people may not survive in their profession, because I don't want to talk about survival in other categories, in purely human or family or biological terms. Therefore, in the parallel law that I mentioned earlier, which we report under Article. 69, there is this proposal to include support and assistance also companies that do not formally employ, but actually employ. The second point concerns rental. I think this is the most serious problem. I'm not diagnosing here. If one of the more competent people than me, someone from the government or a representative of the Sejm, can answer, then she will surely be very important. In fact, the majority of individuals who live from rentals or rents earn a living, a pension, a pension, something else. These people's law in Poland, it is helpful of course, at this difficult time completely does not see. Even when it comes to tax exemptions, etc., it is not mentioned here by name, so there is the freedom of local governments. However, there is no doubt that the real estate tax is not of major importance here. That's what I'd like to say, because I'm not going to say it doesn't matter at all. In view of the costs borne by these people, and I am no longer talking about what it's like to lose money, so not earning revenue from it, because the tenants either do not pay or pay little, and a large part simply resigns from renting and running a business. So that's definitely a big problem, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u225	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Magdalena Loven. [[Voice from the room: Who?]] Magdalena Lovers. [[Voice from the room: Remotely, remotely.]] Senator Magdalena Kochan, remotely. Are you connected to us yet? [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] There isn't? Well, thank you, then. As a result, the list of questions has been exhausted... [[Senator, you're here.]] Senator Magdalena Loven. Is the senator with us? [[Yeah, I'm here, I hear you.]] I ask you to ask the Senator of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u226	Very short. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you a small question about restaurants and people selling alcohol. It's the so-called. Kapslow, in short. The municipalities of those restaurants whose activities must be restricted for obvious reasons would be exempt from paying this cap, this tax It's really the income of a committee to counter alcoholism, addictions and the consequences of addictions. But only until the end of this year. As for next year, they will have no legal basis. Does this shield take into account the extension of the time limit for the possibility of exempting Restaurants from such charges?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u227	Thank you. Unfortunately, no, but I know that there will be complex amendments or there are already complex amendments that will address this issue. Many shops, many operators, many entrepreneurs operating in this area, e.g. the workers operating in galleries, having their activities closed down, had to pay the fees and had no possibility of their recovery in the course of their business activities. The previous shields thought of this, and yes, were associated with this exemption, now there are no amendments, but there will be amendments that will complete this deficiency, and in 2 categories: firstly, as regards the alcohol charge, secondly, as regards the possibility of exempting real estate tax entities. This is not about these shops or these entities, but about business operators at all and having major problems with the economic efficiency of their business.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u228	Thank you very much. One more senator was saved, and I'm sorry for skipping it. Senator Janusz Bladder would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u229	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator, you've practically explained one thing to me, you've answered one of the questions, i.e. on criteria. I mean, basically, the answer is that you don't know what the criteria were. I'll just give you an example, one of many. Namely, there are 2 shops in the gallery, one sells footwear, is a specialist shop, and in the other shop there are shoes, but there are also bags and textiles. And one store is fired and the other isn't fired. This is an example of such criteria. But I have another question. Was the question of the annual fee, i.e. exemption from the annual fee for perpetual lease, raised at the committee's meeting? I ask this because such an exemption for 2021 appears in the law on housing support, which we are going to process today or tomorrow. So I have a question: was this problem raised at the joint committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u230	Thank you very much. No, Mr. Senator. With regard to perpetual use fees, I understand that perpetual use is not a lease, and these are two different things. This law does not provide for this. This problem at the committee meeting was not raised by anyone. [[Voice from the room: It was...]] Was he? [[Voice from the room: No...]] No. Okay. Because I don't remember. No, this bill doesn't apply to this issue. If this is a problem, we should, of course, lean on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u231	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u232	Mrs. Marshal, I have a question for you. I listened to the senator's answer and I was stuck with one phrase that in practice companies do not employ employees, but in fact employ workers, so this aid is somewhat limited. Well, that's obviously the result of hiring for a contract-order, a contract for a piece of work. And I got the impression, perhaps wrong, that you accept it, support it, and even think it's a good solution in a bit of avid times. I will remind you that the basic form of employment of workers in Poland is the employment contract, that is, this honest form of employment, with all the privileges involved. Any other form of employee employment, i.e. contract-order, contract... Well, there's a reason for a work agreement for certain groups. E.g. due to the visible kind of pathologies in the market, contract-orders have been, so to speak, deleted. The point was not to deceive these people, because then in connection with the pension system for these people will be simply a tragedy. And now I'm gonna say... And there are consequences of avoiding hiring people for employment contracts, in many industries. When I listened to your answer so much, I felt that even you would support it. Well, I don't think you can fool people like that. If someone hires someone, they should hire them with all the consequences for their employment contract. Of course, there may be some incidents, e.g. There's a work contract when someone's making a work. However, we have a pathology of avoiding hiring people for employment contracts. In the context of today's problems with helping entrepreneurs, well, they avenge those situations where, as you call it nicely, the company does not formally employ people, but employs. Well, there's a consequence of such a little bypassing the work code. And I will remind you that, according to the Labour Code, hiring people on contracts other than employment contracts, if it is intended to eliminate employment contracts, is illegal and can be converted into a contract of employment, and even demand a judicial...
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u233	Thank you very much. Well, that's a few lines, Mr. Senator. You referred to me, but I understand that as Senator Adam Szejnfeld, and here there is no Senator Adam Szejnfeld... [[Yes?]] [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] This is the rapporteur, Adam Szejnfeld. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down, please let the senator know.]] Therefore, please pay attention... Those who know me probably noticed that I tried very objectively, referring solely to the provisions of the Act, present it and not judge these laws. I'm sure I'll have that chance in my speech as a senator. So here was not from me, as the rapporteur's senator, either positive or negative assessments or diagnoses. That's one thing. Secondly, if you ask me, I would like to say that it is very bad to call something that is lawful, little of what is often the foundation of existence and company, and the employee, and therefore the relationship of cooperation on the basis of civil code, i.e. contract-ordering, contract for work... But I will also mention to you about contracts that are rarely exchanged, or you have not mentioned them at all, that is to say, agency contracts. If such an agreement were to meet the conditions that you mentioned at the end of your speech, i.e. that it is binding in order to circumvent the law, i.e. the Labour Code, here between us, Senator, there is no difference of opinion. I have a similar view to you. But no one can force the company to hire the man who's supposed to be her agent. E.g. in tourism It's normal... I mean, it's almost just a form. It's the same thing that I don't know about remote trading, real estate trading. In many areas of service, a collaborator is not a strictly employee. It would be unthinkable and unthinkable for them to have a relationship with one another. They're often people... The company is in Cracow and has its agents in Rzeszów, Gdansk, Szczecin, Barcelona, Rome, etc. And they not only work alone, but also often as business associates. It's just that. As self-employed or as having their own businesses. Except these are the forms of aid that are dedicated, but excluding the companies they employ. That's all it is. So if such a company has up to 100 agents all over Poland, but just for example. On the basis of an agency agreement, she can't benefit from the aid herself. Even if its turnover dropped by 80-90% , which in many industries Not only in tourism, but mostly in tourism It's the norm. They're down 80%, but a company like this can't get any help. And this company is on the verge of bankruptcy. And that's what we're talking about, not something like that that someone wants to get around the law. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u234	Thank you very much. Will the senator ask? [[No, no, we had an exchange of views.]] Thank you very much. The list of questions has been exhausted. [[Thank you very much.]] Ladies and gentlemen... Thank you very much, Senator. I'm ordering a five-minute break. After this break, there will be a vote. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 47 to 17 minutes 54]] Ladies and gentlemen, the break is extended until 18.05 p.m. The vote will take place at this hour. We still have to check the equipment, because there's a problem. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 54 to 18 minutes 06]] I'm reopening the session. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the fact that there have been communication problems, I will order a test vote first and then we will proceed with the agenda because it is important that there are no voting problems. I ask the senators to press any button. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Did you all vote? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please report the results. [[Voting No 13]] Looks like everything's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that, after hearing the request made by the senator, the Senate decides to join the second reading of the bill without first reading. We therefore proceed with the vote on the inclusion on the agenda of the item: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on Employee Capital Plans and the Act on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Who among your senators is in favour of the second reading of the bill? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Voices from the hall: Ooh!]] [[Voices from the O.R.: He didn't make it.]] [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, 92 senators voted, 46 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has not decided to proceed to the second reading of the bill at this sitting and has therefore referred the draft to the procedure set out in section IX of the Senate Rules of Procedure. We are returning to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them and certain other laws. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Niebżak: Mrs. Marshal, I can present the project very briefly here...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Are you... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak:... if...]] And will the Minister speak from the place, or will he come to the podium? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak: I mean, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down, because I can't hear the Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak: I will say this: I will conform to the will of the senators, the will of the Senate. Because it's also a little bit like that you've introduced Senator Szejnfeld as rapporteur before. I think you've heard of him. I'm not sure if you'd like to ask a lot of questions or less... and I'm going to follow the senate's wishes.]] I understand you want to answer the senators' questions if that's the case. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak: We are, of course, at our disposal.]] Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Now, wait a minute. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jan Maria Jackowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u235	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have a question about this vote that just took place. As we know, in this project that you proposed to Senator Szejnfeld, issues are being raised about different backgrounds that expect some support from the government. Would the Minister be kind enough to say what the government's position on this bill would be? If this would be negative, please tell us in which order the expectations and demands of those environments that are suffering certain losses as a result of the tightening of the sanitary regime will be met. I would appreciate it if the Minister presented a catalogue of these areas. I'm thinking mainly of the hotel industry, the tourism industry, because that's been discussed a lot lately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u236	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u237	I kind of see two parts of that question. The first part concerns the position of the government. Well, of course, that position doesn't exist, and I would be put in a very awkward position if I were to speculate about something that isn't there. I assume that in the course of the parliamentary work, the Senate will turn to the government and this position will be worked out. It would be, so to speak, between the resorts and one of the resorts, perhaps mine. It will be a coordinating body. I just can't answer that question, and I'd rather not speculate, not seem to say so, on my own. As for the other part of the question, I take it a little bit as... As I understand it, the question is how government aid should now be provided. Part of the answer is the bill, which is also the subject of the Senate's deliberations, a law called the trade shield. This is a law that provides for assistance for selected industries. As far as this particular industry is concerned, which the senator asked to draw attention to, i.e. the tourism industry, I would like to signal first of all that the law is still in force called the tourist shield. She was passed at the end of the summer, it was somehow in September. Forgive me, but I can't remember exactly which day was September. This law provides for specific aid measures for selected industries, in particular measures in the form of parking, exemption from the Social Security Office. Please note that in this submission, which is also, as I have already said, the subject of the Senate's deliberations, there is a tool in the form of a regulation... Well, the Council of Ministers will be able to issue a regulation under which this assistance will continue. It can be continued as far as possible with regard to the tourism industry. In the third place, I would like to draw attention to this morning's press conference by Prime Minister Morawiecki, who spoke about the launch of aid often called a financial shield, aid which, as I say, flows through the PFR. Among the sectors that will benefit from this aid... Well, here's a whole catalogue of PKD codes belonging to the tourism industry. This includes: The hotels you mentioned. Yesterday, during very late hours, a request was made regarding the notification of this aid tool, the Financial Shield 2.0, so I think it was defined at the Prime Minister's conference. In the European Commission. As far as I know, the PFR is thinking about running this aid as soon as possible after notification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u238	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u239	Minister, you have given a very interesting message, i.e. that certain industries that are not covered by the aid in this Shield 6.0 will be subject to a further shield, PFR. Could you be precise, because this would be extremely important information, of course, as precisely as you can say at this stage, what industries will be covered by this PFR shield? And whether this PFR-owska aid, for these additional industries will have the shape as so-called. The industry shield, which means it's going to be associated with the PKD code, or are you going to describe it in a slightly different way? Because this way of describing the aid, through the PKD code, has, as we know, its shortcomings, which unfortunately result in the exclusion of certain professional groups, those which are in such a more general PKD, and those which are difficult to extract, I apologize for such colloquialism, a sub-group of entrepreneurs in a particularly affected manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u240	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Anyone from the other rooms? So there's no more questions. [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] There you go, Senator Spider.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for you. In my territory, in West Małopolska, there are many shoemaking establishments where a lot of shoes are produced. These are family bets, small, 9, 10 to 15 people upstairs. And they turned to me with such a question. They've got a lot of stuff made, they've spent money, but this stuff's either in storage or, if it's been taken, it's not sold and they're not paid for it. Can they count on any support under this bill? They're even talking about loans, say, on preferential... Is there any financial support for such a footwear industry?
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u242	Thank you very much. And you're Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u243	Sorry, I didn't ask. It's one thing. These rules of aid, e.g. in the context of non-payment of the Social Security Office or in the context of dedicated aid, not only in the context of exemption from the Social Security Office itself, do not include the second insurance fund. I'm talking about the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund. Some people use this form. Will you state during these next government work... unless I'm wrong, and you tell me that you have good information for so-called crusaders, and you will point out that they can use the help of this shield, or they will be able to do so as part of the solutions that you will prepare in the future.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u244	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u245	Good. Well, maybe one at a time. As far as these industries are concerned, which are planned to be covered by the PFR financial shield, the Prime Minister spoke about about about 40 sectors. On the KPRM website I see information... There's a full list of 38 industries. I don't know if the senator would want me to read them all. I can say that, in a nutshell... These are to a large extent those industries that are in the project, I'm sorry, in the bill, already in the act, as well as the widely represented tourism industry, i.e. hotels, accommodation facilities, tourist agents, tourism organizers and the like. Mr. Senator, here's what I'm gonna say. I can read that list now, but it's available on the KPRM website... [[I'm the one who can just physically take it, that's the easiest way to get to know it.]] I think it'll be easier, yes. As for the shoemaker question, I'll admit... They're not in this bill, to say the least. Of course, it has such characteristics that it refers to this PKD code, which the trader reveals as its PKD code. And I, of course, don't know exactly what code. PKD is indicated in the case of those companies that you mentioned here. So with such a condition, I answer here. 'Cause sometimes that doesn't overlap. But if you ask me if the shoe-making business is here on this list, I'll say it's gone. And a question about KRUS. The answer here is also quite unambiguous. The law does not include exemption from the CRUS, but only from the CRUs. Well, the reason is enough, I'd say, essential. First of all, we are concerned with such a tool, let's say, aid, which is the exemption from the contribution of ZUS... First of all, it is a tool designed as a tool for job protection, helping to maintain jobs. And that's why it's a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u246	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u247	Thank you very much, Marshal. As far as this law is concerned, I have expressed much information as rapporteur, so I will no longer refer at least to that law. Rather, I will limit myself only to the words of criticism, because it is really necessary to express them. Because even if the government's intentions are good, the effect is poor. It's a bill that you can easily call a thrush. And, as we know, a thrush isn't good for everything. There are some proposals that have value in helping entrepreneurs, but they are so few and contain so many gaps, sharpenings and ambiguities... At the same time, because of the incorrect application, as I said as rapporteur, of the aid criterion, which is formal, administrative and not economic, so de facto, if, of course, we do not correct this law, if the state, as a government, as a parliamentary majority in the Sejm, also here in the Senate, you do not agree This aid will not be optimal. Many of these provisions, even If you were to judge them intentionally, the good ones are constructed so that they are blind. After all, there are companies that have PKD codes in their registers, which are registered under PKD codes, which nowadays mean little in their current business. You'll be able to help this country. But there are companies that, on the other hand, have very large declines, even dredgings, but do not have PKD in their scope, or at least as the most appropriate, of the number you wish for. Well, at the end of the day, we're not gonna have anything good. And here's the best example. But just an example, because it's specific. There is an industry, e.g. market, where on the one hand companies of strict market sense try to help, meanwhile... And still, this help will be a waste, because these issues are only related to some parking or ZUS in the case of the enormous needs of these companies... In my opinion, this could lead to the collapse of many companies, which are pearls in the crown of the Polish economy. 'Cause, you know, like... You no longer take into account those companies that cooperate with trade fairs, without which, of course, these trade fairs cannot function, for example. those companies that design for trade fairs, those that deal with trade fair advertising, market logistics, transport, etc. It is similar in tourism. If it weren't for the corrections... And if you would like, just like you just did, to reject the amendments that I am about to report, then of course in tourism a lot of companies will fall, because you see some and no longer others, and help is perhaps for 10% The needy... Maybe 10%. , or maybe less, certainly not more. That's why I'm making over 300 amendments, exactly 308, if I've counted correctly, hoping you'll lean on it with positive emotions. Because I am convinced, after discussions with many... well, maybe not with many, but with some of the Senators of Law and Justice, that the previous vote was purely party, purely political, and I know privately that many of you considered that the solutions proposed in this initiative submitted under the Article. 69 are right and necessary. But the party slogan came up: the Civic Coalition reported the project, it needs to be overthrown. And it just happened. But what of it? I'm asking you, so what if you won this vote because it was 46:46, so what? Political joy? Restaurants are closed, you're not going to open a bottle of champagne for that, unless you're meeting at home, but I'm reminding you that there are sharpenings in this area of numbers, and there are too many of you in the club to meet together and drink this symbolic champagne. And look at it through the prism of millions of people in Poland, hundreds of thousands of employees of companies that will fail because you have just voted against, through the prism of tens of thousands of companies that will not receive the aid that was presented, created in this project notified under the article. 69. And you're about to vote, as I said, on the 300 amendments I'm going to report, and then your colleagues in the Seym. And each of these amendments, or at least a large part of them, because some of them can be talked about... That's what the argument is, that you discuss, talk, argue, and so on. And you must remember that every rejection of an amendment that serves businesses, their employees, has, apart from the political effect, beyond the political dimension, a purely human dimension. Behind every rule that applies, behind every rule that you propose and which we propose, stands a man, is somewhere his family, there are children and the company he runs. And either she will survive, survive, survive, and then these workers, families, children will also survive the hardships of the time that has touched Poland, Europe, the whole world, or they will not survive. We often wonder There were such questions here, too. From where money to cover these or other proposals. But basically, such questions are never asked by law and justice, when they are either government or quasi-committal proposals. And then money goes left and right, suddenly there are, they're everywhere, for everything, not just for this activity of fighting the epidemic, but also for limos, on TVP, for party propaganda, for everything. And the people working in those companies that this bill is about to cover, these are the people who, every day, going home, wonder if they own them, whether their company will work tomorrow, or whether tomorrow they will have what to do in it, if they are employees. And they're wondering if, if this November that you put in your bill will pass, they'll get some more compensation. It's hard to talk about, I'll be honest. How can you treat the affairs of millions of people in Poland so heartlessly, partyly, politically? And when is that? At the time we live, pandemics, epidemics, crisis when they're Christmas in four weeks. For you, it's more important who wins the vote than who wins the money for Christmas Eve. Actually, honestly, I don't feel like discussing this bill. I'm just gonna say I'm making amends. Firstly, those that extend the circle of companies to further entities are the additional PKD codes. Secondly, those that will refine the legal concept of the dominant PKD code in a group of companies that are part of a given business activity. These are the ones that will include companies that were founded after 30 November 2019. Because if the company was founded in January, February, March or April No matter when, there's nothing to calculate. Why shouldn't he get support if he's having problems if he hires people and doesn't want them fired before Christmas? These and many other amendments I'm putting on your marshal's hands here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u248	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Maria Blanket. There you go, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal, can I take my mask off while I speak? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please.]] Thank you very much. I'm sorry, I'm gonna take my mask off because I can't talk in it. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator Szejnfeld, Mr President is, as you can see, very bitter that the Senator's initiative has not received majority support in the Senate vote. You have a real majority, and if they all mobilized, the outcome could be different. Was our vote political? No, Mr. Senator. Do we feel satisfied? We don't feel satisfied, we don't drink champagne, because this isn't the time to drink champagne. We are working on further solutions for Polish entrepreneurs, for companies, as we have been working since March. You're saying that if this initiative doesn't come into force, tens or maybe hundreds of thousands of companies will die. But that's what you said in the spring when Shield 1.0 was moving when the anti-crisis shield and the financial shield were moving. You announced that they would not be effective, you said that they were holes like a thrush, that they were too late to be implemented, that they were insufficient, that hundreds of thousands of companies would fall, that unemployment would reach a dozen percent. None of that happened. We can only regret, Senator, that you have not agreed on this initiative with the government. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. If this had happened and if the government had expressed a positive opinion, our vote would probably have been completely different. Ladies and gentlemen, the presentation we are working on is real help for entrepreneurs. This is the sixth amendment of the March 2nd Act. We're updating it again because the situation is dynamic. Current government action is required at each stage of the epidemic's development and in view of the changing economic situation. These actions are effective. I'll give you a few indicators. I also presented them at the committee meeting, as if forced to do so by the states of the Senate, who were very critical about government aid to our economy. Then, in the spring, Ladies and gentlemen, this aid package, i.e. an anti-crisis shield, which was launched already in April, in fact in the first weeks of the outbreak reign in Poland, and shortly thereafter the financial shield that was launched, as soon as it was agreed with the European Commission, notified in the European Commission, because it is public aid and such notification must be, these funds went to Polish companies, micro-enterprises, small and medium-sized enterprises, including large enterprises, and this aid is in the order of PLN 152 billion. The aid, which, ladies and gentlemen, for example under the financial shield is PLN 62 billion within the financial shield 1.0. Because the one the Prime Minister was talking about today is the Shield. 2.0, which is another edition of the financial shield. This aid went to 346 thousand companies, which employ 3 million 120 thousand people. So to these micro companies, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as to up to 50 large companies. As far as the anti-crisis shield is concerned, I will give you some data: PLN 17.5 billion for subsidies for salaries for 4 million workers; PLN 17 billion for exemptions and reductions in ZUS contributions; PLN 5 billion for parking benefits; PLN 9 billion for these micro-loaning PLN 5 thousand, which were very successful. So, ladies and gentlemen, these are concrete numbers, concrete measures that have been addressed to our entrepreneurs. Did the companies fail? There were probably some cases that companies fell for various reasons, but I will remind you that as early as mid-May in the central economic register there were the same number of business entities registered as in January, i.e. before the first wave of epidemics. So the shields worked very quickly. They proved to be very effective and this State aid has proved very effective, although in many cases it may not be sufficient. After all, there were also reduced wages or parking benefits. It wasn't... It was in the amount of PLN 2,000, and people, working, probably made more money. But no one was deprived of the means of life. Well, unfortunately, in this difficult situation, each of us bears some costs, but the Polish state, the Polish government has left no one without help. And so it will be now, in the fall, when we have a second wave of epidemics. Now this aid is also envisaged, but not for all, as it was in the spring, when there was no such GDP indicator, because everyone received aid and even this level of income reduction was small. Indeed, many companies have benefited from this aid. Now it will be individual industries, because the restrictions apply to individual sectors. Well, we have a partial lockdown, but not as complete as it was in the spring. Prime Minister Morawiecki has repeatedly said that we are going down the middle of the road, on the one hand we are saving lives, the health of Poles, on the other hand we are saving the economy. We need to take very good care of ourselves, distance ourselves, wear masks. On the other hand, when closing some of the industries, some of the companies, we simply have to fight for our economy to survive this very difficult time. Ladies and gentlemen, we have managed to save 6 million jobs. We have one of the lowest unemployment rates in Europe, i.e. 6%. I think there's one country with a lower unemployment rate than us. This already shows that these shields and this help were very effective. The indicators referred to by the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund or the World Bank predict that the recession in Poland will also be very low, 2.3%. This is the data of the European Commission. Only Lithuania will have a smaller recession, in the European Union it will be 7% And when it comes to Germany, it's 5.6%. So this recession is also relatively low, and this too, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the fact that this aid was so large. Ladies and gentlemen, growth in industry... Well, that's September, too. We are seeing growth in this area as one of the 2 countries in Europe, and we are on the plus 3.3% compared to last year. Employment in the enterprise sector amounts to 6 million 300 000 and is at the level of last year. In general employment in Poland, i.e. 16.5 million people, it's at the level of last year. The VAT and CIT and PIT receipts after 10 months of 2020 are at the same level as last year, I am talking about the period from January to October, and are 76 billion PLN higher than for the same period in 2015. Ladies and gentlemen, it's just about the deficit of the state budget. After 10 months, at the end of October this deficit amounts to PLN 12 billion, despite the epidemic, despite large social programmes, 500+, 300+, thirteenth pension, etc. And what was the deficit in 2015, when there was no epidemic, there were 500+ and other programmes? That was PLN 34.5 billion. So, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about an anti-crisis shield. What is included in this law is an amendment that concerned dozens of industries. In this law, which came to us from the Sejm, these are probably 33 industries, but we make, me and my colleagues, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice, make further amendments, which will extend the catalogue of sectors covered by this aid and will also contain other provisions. Companies that have been registered this year will also be able to apply for this assistance. Dear Member States, we are working on this law all the time, and the Ministry of Development, the Ministry of Culture, is working on it, because the cultural sectors will also be covered by this assistance. This job goes on. This also requires precise calculation, because on the other hand we have a budget that is not unabated, and we cannot make the public finance system fall apart because we have put a lot of effort into fixing this system of public finances, dear Members, since 2015. If we hadn't fixed it, if we hadn't had a situation like that by 10 percentage points, we would have had our hands tied. And so we can support, we have the resources to support the economy, support businesses and fight for jobs for ordinary people, so that they can throw Christmas so they don't have to worry about what they're buying bread for tomorrow. I don't know if they're gonna send the kids to school for it. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mrs Marshal...]] ...the monthly cost of these records, which are in this amendment, is PLN 4 billion. The financial shield 2.0 is moving, and this is what the Prime Minister said today, the Shield 2.0 is moving, another 35 billion zlotys that will go to 40 industries. Mrs. Marshal, I'm making 11 amendments. I didn't have time to do it anymore. I'm putting them on your hands. These are very good amendments which extend significantly, but above all beneficial to our entrepreneurs, the scope of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u250	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Before we're ready. I use the plural because I have prepared the amendments I am going to talk about with Senator Tyszkiewicz We have analysed these proposals, which I will now present to you, because we believe it is an expression of responsibility to present proposals that can be financed by the state budget. At first, we need to ask ourselves whether we can afford some of the proposals that I am about to make. My previous speaker, Senator Maria Blanket, has already mentioned this. Yeah, we can afford it. The deficit of the state budget in October amounted to PLN 12 billion, and in September it amounted to PLN 13 billion 800 million. What does that mean in practice? This means that the state budget in October this year was on the plus by PLN 1 billion 800 million. That's good news, because you didn't expect this to happen when you prepared a sector shield that is financed by the state budget. This is the space for at least some of the amendments that we will present here to be adopted for implementation. You have a much bigger financial security margin than you originally expected. The VAT receipts alone for September were 8.9% higher That's what economists didn't expect before. Budget implementation after October this year is 81.8% , and last year it was less than 81% , almost no difference. It turns out that the state budget can afford to increase the scope of aid for Polish entrepreneurs. They increased by what was not found in this shield, and there were no different industries that your decision, the government's decision, were either shut down or their activities were radically reduced. You know. I'll come back to that in a moment, that this aid basically covered contracts-orders in a symbolic way. I'm glad, for example. There are other solutions in the cultural area, but this is another area... In a moment, I will propose that assistance related to these forms of employment, which are dominant in some sectors, e.g. in the fitness industry absolutely dominant is the form of employment in the form of contract-ordering... We also prepared an amendment on new companies, founded last December, in January, in February this year. Then people started their own business, and everyone who ran their own business, knows I ran my own business, and I know. The fact that the first period of operation is the most difficult is then falling most of those companies that have just been established. That is the responsibility of government institutions to help those who took off, but they took off, as it turned out, at the worst possible moment. Of course, budget revenue in November and December will be lower than in November and December last year, but it turned out .. and it should be used. The fact that the financial situation is much better than you initially expected. That's why we need to speak loudly. about those industries that have been left out. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not make amendments or have tabled amendments that include 100 or 200 or 300 additional sectors from the PKD list, we have made very point amendments to those PKD sectors that have been affected by government decisions just in the form of closure or radical reduction of activity. That is why, unfortunately, we need to talk about those who are not in this shield and who absolutely need to be in it. Whether it's a fitness industry, whether it's a hotel industry, understood much more widely, whether it's a tourism with the above mentioned tour pilots, guides, mountain guides, or it's a catering industry with special attention to those companies that provided catering services only in connection with so-called. event events, whether it is agrotourism, floristic industry, market, school shops... Pay attention, sometimes it's colloquially said that the devil is in the details. You didn't close the trade, but there are specific types of trade activities that you have closed down in practice. If there are no children and young people in schools, if there are no young people in universities, then you have not made an administrative decision, a public decision to close the business, but you have actually closed it. That is why it is the responsibility of the state to help those who conduct such forms of their business absolutely. I'm talking about school shops, but this is an example, because there are shops that are like. in sports and tourist facilities, where sports costumes are sold, swimming costumes. I do not want to extend this list so as not to take the time that we should devote to work, helping businesses and citizens. All these affected industries are included in our amendments. These are also transport companies delivering children to school, these are dance schools, sports companies, taxi drivers. Taxi drivers have a drop in revenue of 80.90%. We need to have a dialogue with this industry, whose representatives have been on the streets for a few days, but they don't drive passengers, they just show how dramatic they are now. Sometimes your decisions touch people you wouldn't think of. I have absolutely no doubt that today's priority is to care for health care. But what does it turn out to be? At a time when, in practice, you have closed down the fitness industry, many dieticians who care about our health care take care of the basics of healthy nutrition, i.e. make sure that we are less susceptible to infections, in practice cannot carry out their activities. You forgot about them, too, because it's a separate PKD code. This amendment was also tabled. Sometimes we talk about ways of doing business, where people are surprised when I say they stand at the edge of the gap. Example: Laundry. Well, we all do our laundry, some of us do our laundry, some use the automatic laundry. But there's a specific kind of activity that you've put away in practice. Or radically limited. They are specialized laundromats, laundromats, which perform their services, e.g. for the hotel industry. All those companies in those points I would stress that we have taken into account the points of the amendments. I would ask you to examine one more problem that I was talking about, but I will immediately convince you of the philosophy that we have prepared this amendment. This is an amendment on contract-orders, an amendment that we have tabled. In a conscious way, we even benefited from the amendment tabled by one of the parliamentarians of the PiS, extending it only. This amendment covers all contract staff and contractors from affected industries. Fitness clubs don't have their employees as personal trainers. These are co-workers, self-employed. What do we propose? We propose an amendment which will allow the help of contractors who are active in the service of contractors from the affected industries. Allow them to help, which is included in this bill. What philosophy do we propose? All 38 PKD codes that you have included in your amendments... We are entering so that in these sectors, employees with contracts can benefit from assistance so that they can apply for parking. Notice how targeted we are proposing this amendment. In areas such as fitness or gastronomy, most employees are employed under contract-order. This is because of the specifics of these industries. That's why we put in this or whatever really good amendment... The amendment was tabled by the MP PiS I don't remember if it was you or the senator. And she's good. We're just supplementing it to make it better. I hope that this amendment is undisputed because it covers only undisputed PKD codes, and that it will find most not only in the Senate, but also in the Seym. There's one more thing worth mentioning here. It is a fact that if this amendment were to be adopted, we would include all those without jobs, wages, people with contracts, parking services. It is enough to make it clear that cultural institutions, which are financed by the budget of the Ministry of Culture, propose such a solution. I'm glad to see Minister Sellin. You can see that this solution is a solution acceptable to the government. Let's use them more widely. I would also like to draw your attention to one important vote. I know that any discussion about any assistance, whether we want it or not, is part of the political context. Therefore, it is worth looking for people who can be certain authorities in particular areas because they do not cause distrust on either side. There is someone who, in a special way in public administration, is obliged to deal with small and medium-sized companies, this is Minister Adam Abramowicz, former Member of Law and Justice. What did he say at the Senate committee meeting that dealt with it? He said it wasn't help, it was duty. If the State is completely shutting down any activity, it is responsible. If the State deprives anyone of the possibility of doing business, it is obliged to pay compensation He said it in a way that doesn't raise any doubts. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]] [[Senator, 11 minutes.]] Thank you. Well, in that case, to sum up... [[Please.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's solve the problems we already have. This shield's late anyway. And there are more problems ahead of us with the government's next decisions. I don't even criticize them at this point. We have already queued ski slope owners, guesthouses who served winter holidays, so we can't waste any more time. The state budget allows for the adoption of amendments extending this assistance which you have presented, and this is good information. I am very pleased that we cannot say in this Chamber that finance prevents us from supporting good amendments. Therefore, I ask for the support of the amendments that I tabled with Senator Tyszkiewicz. This is not an expense from the state budget, it is an investment for Polish entrepreneurs and for Polish citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u252	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Marshal Gabriela Moravian Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u253	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! It's a sad discussion. It's a sad discussion, because we're already dealing with one of the shields, and we already know that this shield is holes, that it's just a sieve. And the Minister has already announced work here on another shield. How many more of these shields are there gonna be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and how many of our amendments we're making here will be rejected in the Sejm like many of the previous ones? This is truly highly irresponsible and harmful. However, it would suffice to cooperate with the whole opposition, to listen to advice at the stage of the Parliament's work. The meetings of the Sejm committees could take longer to hear the voices of all those who know about it, all those who have some experience to discuss the opposition's amendments and make sure that these laws are comprehensive. In fact, as a result, we are adopting further shields, we are working hard here to introduce amendments, which later the Sejm publicly rejects. Chaos and no idea. At the same time, the number of infections is increasing, there is a record number of deaths, a record number of lost jobs, companies that have already been closed, companies that have already been bankrupt, and those that we should not be fooled about, and this year, and in subsequent years the crisis will be closed. But it is not true what has been said here several times that the government has been working on it since March. It's not true, because during the summer something completely different was taken care of, because after the holidays for two months, when it was possible to develop methods to fight a pandemic, it took time to drag a rope and determine who was more important in this government. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And unfortunately... If during the holidays and before the elections there were no propaganda, harmful propaganda, that the virus is in reverse, that we did well, so let's not be afraid, let's go to elections, which was especially directed to the elderly, then perhaps today we would not have such problems with keeping Poles at home. Perhaps today we would not have such problems with the fact that people just sometimes behave irrationally. On Tuesday, there were over 10,000 infections and 33,000 tests. Please note that the number of tests is falling. It also decreases the number of infections, because the ratio of the number of tests to the number of infections or vice versa, infections to tests in Poland was almost the highest in the whole world. But on November 24th, the Ministry banned the publication of data. It's completely under control, because the numbers are wrong. Well, it's better not to publish them. The cemeteries were closed from day to day, 2 days before All Saints' Day, so that this evening Poles would go to graves, and in order that in the next few days one of the industries or two industries would lose the income for which they worked all year round. We're introducing Christmas restrictions. I wonder who from Poles will follow them. But there are restrictions on the number of people at the Christmas table so that they can go to the pastor later. That's where we're gonna go. We're not gonna get infected there, are we? Gastronomy is closed, gyms are closed, places where cleanliness and disinfection are ensured in a special way. Can anyone understand that? Can anyone understand this? And now I have questions about a few industries. What about the exhibition industry, which has been out of commission for months and will not have them for a long time, for the next few months, and perhaps even until the end of next year? 'Cause let's not think we're gonna have vaccines in December. You will say that you gave them help, that you included them in the solutions, but it is completely different because the aid was received by the organizers of the fair, the owners of the halls, and the vast majority, about 90% She didn't get it anymore. We are talking about people who are the performers of trade fair stands, i.e. entities without which trade fairs cannot succeed. These people have already knocked on the right door, but their voice isn't heard. What about the tourism industry? What are the solutions for her? The accumulation of holidays in one time, the limitation of trips is another hit by entrepreneurs in pockets. Besides, the government here doesn't have a clear concept either, because one day it says that ski slopes will be completely closed, and the next day, under the influence of some part of the industry, it says that they will be open. Well, it's nice to have a vice minister who owns a company, because then you can get help that you can't normally get. Creating divisions in society, between entrepreneurs... Pilots of tours, guides, animators, campers owners, how can they handle it? I've received several thousand e-mails from people in these industries in the last week. The gastronomy industry, how many places have already fallen? And do you know that there are premises that are placed against a wall to save themselves, organizing public dropouts? Where are you? I'm not talking about solidarity between citizens who just don't cook at home, they just go to a restaurant and buy this food just for that. I repeat, that's all I'm saying. To have a place to eat dinner when it's all over. This is the solidarity of Poles. Event industry, wedding industry which lies, artistic agencies, florists, equipment rentals, production of wedding dresses, catering, shoe industry, taxi drivers who have shown really how desperate they are, small optical plants, they all have to deal with, but how? The government shut down schools by sending children to a remote school, but completely forgot that it closed down the small businesses in them, i.e. school shops. These aren't big commercial networks that may be able to handle things, but these are small shops that allow you to keep up with one family sometimes. And there are many such Polish families, families that you do not support, because school shops have been forgotten. I hope that my amendments will be adopted by the High House, including these industries. These industries that need to be helped here and now, because the government doesn't see the problems of these people because the government doesn't want to see the problems of these people. Where's the money? I think the money's there, everybody's saying, "Mom's money." Maybe we're misdirecting them. Maybe they're spent on common influenza vaccinations. It's just that hardly anyone's seen these vaccines. I've directed a few interventions on this case and there's no more vaccines. Maybe money went online and computers for families for which remote science became a financial burden? How about oncology? No. 2 billion went to TVP, millions to buy the phantom masks and respirators that I no longer want to mention. But I do know one thing: that money didn't go back to the budget, that money that those ventilators didn't buy. 70 million for elections that didn't happen. The European Games... Why do we even need them? Don't we have more urgent expenses? The funds for the Ministry of National Defence in the revision of the budget are not known for what, because they were not shown. New limos for the government... Do you know that there are more limousines in Poland than ambulances? Local portals of information. szczecinskie24.pl, lubelskie.info, radomskie.info, financed by the Ministry of Justice... So maybe we should do a fair summation and not waste these resources. Maybe it's time to come to your senses and start making sense. All of them and the Seym, and the Senate To discuss the most important things together, i.e. to help our fellow countrymen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u254	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u255	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Too bad there's so little to say, there are senators in this room because it would be worth discussing. To be honest, I would like to refer to those speeches which were, in particular, to the extremely demagogical speech by Marshal Stanecka-Morawska. Because there are so many things that your marshal has raised in his speech... Well, there should be practically one big correction. But before I go to your Marshal's statement... This Act Shield 6.0 is a law that, if we adopt it, And I hope that today or tomorrow it will be passed... the Sejm is waiting for this bill of ours. It could be praised today. But if it's tomorrow, it's tomorrow. She will allow that for November entrepreneurs who need help will not have to pay ZUS. This is concrete, real, very important help. All the more so that the ZUS will have to pay for November in December. So the sooner we get this settled, the better. This law, of course, contains a lot of different forms, which so far have been, including parking. Of course, it does not apply to all sectors, because the philosophy of government has changed. And it is very good that today, during the second wave of crisis, we support those industries that have actually suffered losses. In the spring we were all surprised, I say: not only all of us, but also the whole civilized world de facto was surprised, so this help was so that I would say, comprehensive. Today, this aid is already point-blank, this aid is addressed to these industries. In fact, in Shield 6.0 there are not most operators of the type of catering, type of tourism, but, Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know, maybe somebody's already gotten into this parliament too much. Today Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said that for these industries, namely tourism, gastronomy, transport, there will be a financial shield from the Polish Development Fund. Today, the Prime Minister announced support for Polish micro-, small and medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises in the range of between 35 and 40 billion. And now I do not know whether Senator Szejnfeld, who makes 300 amendments in writing these amendments, did not see today's declaration by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. Well, if you haven't noticed, then, you know... There's Google, there's even TV, even TVN. I know everybody gave it to me. So perhaps, Mr. Senator... [[Time flies.]] ...it would be worth... 35 to 40 billion PLN of support by the Polish Development Fund, Mr. Senator. [[Then we must support the amendments.]] This is concrete, help that goes to... As we helped Polish entrepreneurs in the spring, we will also help Polish entrepreneurs in the autumn. I wish your marshal hadn't left. I hope he's got some very urgent responsibilities. 'Cause I wanted to comment on one big demagogue that Marshal Stanecka-Morawska presented here. If the charge is that the government closed the cemeteries at the last minute, and it was Mrs Stanecka-Morawska who said not to accumulate traffic on 1 November, so that there would be no such departures, there was no increased risk of infection of people... Is that supposed to be a charge? That's why we did it so that this coronavirus wouldn't spread on November 1st. The industry that lost the most here, which is the flower sales business, we helped. I've talked to those who do it, and they've said unofficially that such support... that even if there was no ban, they wouldn't have made that kind of profit. Because we've focused all the flowers that they were, so that there's no loss in this business. If somebody was selling candles... Well, it's not something that's gonna end. Besides, the ban only lasted a few days, those Christmas days. So that later people at the cemetery went... Besides, the Church in Poland, Pope Francis himself prolonged the possibility of obtaining complete indulgence and could be obtained for visiting cemeteries until the end of November. In this way they wanted to spread this movement, visit the cemeteries, so that there was no accumulation. If today Senator Kwiatkowski says that the budgetary situation is so good and that is why we need to spend these billions here... I would remind you of how the Senators of the Civic Platform or the Senate, including the Left, behaved. Mrs. Stanecka-Morawska was a little outraged that I was only talking about the Platform As we have been updating the budget this year and introducing the budget deficit that has emerged. There was a lot of complaining about how we were blowing up public finances. How much subcutaneous joy it was that there was a budget deficit. Yeah, a pretty high budget deficit... How many insinuations were there, talking about some holes in Kościński, etc. And today, the same senators say you have to spend tens of billions of zlotys out of government, no one knows what sources, etc. What Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki proposes, what the government proposes, it is all numbered and it is all financed. Mr Szejnfeld's proposals are neither gold nor real money for Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki's proposals. Polish entrepreneurs appreciated this because Polish entrepreneurs already benefited from this support in the spring: they did not pay ZUS, they took parking, they took 5 thousand PLN of non-refundable loan. These are specific money that has been sent to Polish entrepreneurs. There's one more thing, and your Marshal Blanket made a very good comment. Because in his speech, Senator Szejnfeld was kind of offended by the fact that the majority of the Senate had lost the vote or that there was a tie in this room, which consequently prevented this initiative of Senator Szejnfeld from giving it a further Senate run. But, sir, Senator Szejnfeld, maybe you're listening to me somewhere. If you wanted to do it very quickly, you had to do it through the parliamentary club in the Sejm. Because the procedure you proposed at the Senate... Making this a senate initiative will only prolong this procedure. You have Members of Parliament and Left, and PSL, and the Civic Platform, so you had to report this initiative as a parliamentary initiative, it would have been considered by the Sejm a long time ago. I don't know what the decision would be. But tonight, making some political show that Mr. Szejnfeld is going to write a bill that they're in... Well, there's one thing I'd even agree with, and the other one's absurd. But even assuming that everything would be rational there, this legislative path alone is not the fastest legislative path, which is at the disposal of the Platform, Left or PSL parliamentary clubs. Why am I bringing this up? I mention it because it's another show. And that grumpy look on Senator Szejnfeld's face because he lost the vote, he even said he wouldn't talk about the bill anymore. It shows that today you want to take advantage of a very difficult pandemic situation, which is an objectively difficult situation all over the world, only for political games. And here you have to... [[Senator, it's 11 minutes.]] Can I use those five minutes right away? Because there's no one else to pick me up. Why do I have to come down and come in, Mr. Marshal? [[It's four minutes now.]] I'm asking for four minutes. [[There you go.]] Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Then you have to write it down...]] Yes, as a second performance. Ladies and gentlemen! The question is whether we want to help Polish entrepreneurs or whether we just want to practice politics. As I listened so much to these statements and such a piercing statement from a certain, even to say, the anticlericality of your marshal, whose main concern was that you could still go to church and that people would go to the pastor after Christmas Eve... Well, I give this information that there are also powerful restrictions on churches, and not everyone who wants to go to church on Christmas will simply have this possibility, because the limits in terms of the number of people per square metre of space in the church are very, very large. Ladies and gentlemen, I, together with Senator Rafał Ambrozik, have submitted a few amendments to the bureau... [[Voice from the room: 300?]] No 300, no, no, no 300. There were 13 amendments plus a few more, which is, let's say, about 20 amendments. They are mostly about support for a wider culture, because we want this law to be further supported by this industry. But once again, the tourism, catering and transport sectors will be supported in the Financial Shield 2.0, which will be implemented by the Polish Development Fund. He was very efficient in helping in the spring and here chapeau bass for President Paul Boris. And yet such an example of political demagogy, perhaps ill will... And I'm surprised it was Mrs. Stanecka-Morawska who gave it because it's kind of proof of that politicality. Namely, she gave this example of ski slopes. When the slopes were closed, it was a larum, what a bad decision the government made. As Prime Minister Gowin, after consulting the environment, changed this decision, Mrs Stanecka-Morawska criticized it because how could these slopes be opened at all? We've closed the slopes. wrong, we've opened the slopes It's bad. We've given help. We're not gonna be able to help. It's bad. I very much appeal to the Senate's majority not to make a policy when we are fighting for jobs. So dramatic, even certain moral aspects of the bill, you spoke to Senator Szejnfeld. Sticking to the poetics of Senator Szejnfeld, please: in accordance with your sense of responsibility and morality, do not make a policy on the problems of millions of Polish entrepreneurs, Polish workers, because the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is doing everything to help these people to save jobs to protect economic operators. Behind us are these few spring months of pandemics that have shown that the government's actions are effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u256	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Jolanta Hibner, Senator Alicja Chybicka, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka and gentlemen Senators Krzysztof Brejza and Benjamin Godyla have made their speeches in the discussion on the protocol. I inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka, Senator Jerzy Wcisła, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, Senator Ryszard Bober, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, Adam Szejnfeld, and Senator Ryszard Bober, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, Wadi Tyszkiewicz and Jan Filip Libicki jointly, Senator Robert Dowhan, Senator Krzysztof Mróz and Senator Rafał Ambrozik jointly, Senator Wojciech Nealny, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski and Wadi Tyszkiewicz, Senator Janusz Pęcherz, Senator Halina Bieda, Senator Robert Dowhan He's already been there. Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka, Senator Maria Koc and Senator Adam Szejnfeld. Would a government representative like to comment on the proposals put forward? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Niebżak: No, I think, Mr. Marshal, that there is no need to...]] Thank you. At the committee meeting, you're gonna... [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Marek Nieżak:... amendments...]] Okay, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will take place at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 9:00 p.m. The Senior Convention will be held at 8:45 p.m. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 24 to 21 minutes 00]]
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u257	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. The text of the act is contained in print No 251 and the report of the committee In print No 251 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u258	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Joint Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure adopted by the Sejm on 28 October 2020 on the amendment of certain laws supporting the development of housing - Seym printing Nos 534 and 652. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. After considering the law at the joint meeting of these committees on 24 and 25 November 2020, the committees shall ask the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. The bill is a government submission and entered the Sejm on 6 August 2020. The law itself has 87 pages, a justification Almost 130 pages, and the whole document, to which an impact assessment of the law is attached, an impact assessment of the regulations introduced by the 2 regulations of the Ministry of Development, together with annexes and a public consultation report and other analyses, has almost 450 pages. In the framework of the public consultation, the project was addressed to 53 stakeholders, of which 14 stakeholders received feedback with proposals for amendments. As many as 220 comments were submitted to the project. Each has been analyzed and each has a position of the Ministry of Development. Therefore, no comments can be made to the legislative process, which rarely happens. It's a pity Senator Mr. Frost isn't here because yesterday he regretted that the opposition didn't praise anything that the government would prepare. Here the opposition will praise the government for a well-prepared bill. At the legislative stage in the Sejm, opinions were received concerning the Law of the Supreme Court, the Financial Supervision Commission, the National Court Council, the National Chamber of Chambers and the Polish Chamber of Electronic Communications. And they were positive opinions about the bill being processed. The work in the joint committees was very efficient, in a good and constructive atmosphere, which is undoubtedly due to the chairmen of both committees, but also to the well prepared opinion of the Senate Legislative Office and the substantively prepared representatives responsible for the ministry law. The main objective of this law is to support municipal and social housing and to support households in their housing expenses, in particular in the face of the effects of the COVID-19 epidemic. The Act aims to create conditions for significantly improving and accelerating the creation of a social housing stock. The rental premises resulting from this process are to have a standard that does not differ from those available on the market. The premises are intended for people who cannot afford to buy their own apartment, which is designed to facilitate relatively low rent, limited by statutory records. The Act is also intended to make the existing support tools more flexible so that the municipalities reaching for them are comfortable, using them, and see a chance of development for local communities. As many as 24 laws are amended by the Act, mostly in the field of housing. For example, I will mention a few: construction law in art. 6, housing additives in Article. 11, on certain forms of housing promotion, in Article. 7, with financial support for the creation of apartments for rent, sheltered housing, etc. In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14, on the National Property Resources In Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 20, on State aid for the payment of housing expenses in the first years of the lease of the apartment 12. The Act sets out rules for the collection of savings, financing by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego of certain investment and construction projects aimed at building residential premises. It lays down rules for the support of municipalities from the new entity, i.e. The Government Housing Development Fund, as well as the principles of the social housing initiative SIM, as well as the SIM card. At first I did not know, but this is a shortcut from the name of the social housing initiative, in addition to the words indicating its organisational form, it contains the words "a residential initiative." The Act allows the settlement of participation during the rental period of the dwelling and determines the conditions under which this may occur. This applies to 3 situations: a rental agreement for a residential establishment taking into account the periodic settlement of participation, a rental agreement for a residential establishment taking into account the total settlement of participation and an institutional lease agreement with access to ownership taking into account the settlement of participation. The Act repeals the absolute prohibition on the ownership of residential premises built under BGK's preferential loans, allows housing to be rented by employers or non-governmental organisations to natural persons, lays down rules on the granting of housing allowances plus a contribution from the COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund to tenants who have lost or partly their income as a result of the COVID-19 epidemic, exempts housing allowances, including energy allowances, from administrative and commercial executions, imposes a penalty in the form of a fine for managers and persons collecting charges for premises in the event of failure to inform the authority of the arrears in respect of maintenance charges, introduces powers for municipalities to call on the applicant to make available documents supporting the income. Here I would like to mention that the committee's meeting proposed further tightenings in this respect, namely that under the Law of 6 July 1982 on perpetual books and mortgage, the municipalities had the opportunity to verify the statements of property, but ultimately Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, who submitted these comments, would withdraw this amendment, hoping that the current work in the Ministry would lead to satisfactory changes in this area. The amendment of the Act on Financial Support for the Creation of Housing, in turn, allows for the modification of the rules for the granting of support to municipalities from the grant fund up to 35%, the separation into ownership of housing created with the participation of the municipality after 15 years from the date of settlement of the costs of the project, the increase of expenditure on renovation of the existing municipal building stock, which due to the technical condition are not used, the harmonisation of the catalogue of eligible costs with the catalogue of costs in the social building programme, e.g. underground garages, land weapons networks, and also allows the financing of a common area for seniors, it's something new, it's about recreational, outpatient rooms, etc. A very important issue regulated by the Act is the introduction of a mechanism enabling entrepreneurs affected by the negative effects of COVID-19, the reduction of the annual levy on perpetual use titles for 2021 in proportion to the duration of the epidemic and epidemic. This is a solution I have pointed out before, on the occasion of the adoption of Shield 1.0, I said that this solution could be introduced. It's a good thing it's been proposed now. Senators Jadwiga Rotnicka, Janusz Pęcherz, Wadim Tyszkiewicz, Zygmunt Frankiewicz spoke at the joint committee meeting. The questions concerned, among others: Article 2 Article 8 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 The Housing Supplements Act, which withdrew from the additional provision on the immediate notice of the Authority's arrears in the fees for recording the notice within 14 days and introduced an article. 8a, a penalty for the manager in the event of failure to notify. Me, among others. I proposed that, in order to verify the regularity of the operations of the managers, they be obliged to report periodically on the payment of persons receiving housing allowances, otherwise only municipal units will be subject to checks. How do I check the manager? I don't know, but I received a response from the Ministry that this punishment of 500 PLN is a punishment high enough, severe enough that the administrators will do so meticulously. We'll see. The discussion pointed to interpretation doubts regarding the application of the Article. 15zzie and another one. It's about calculating the rent and the rent payments. The questions concerned, among others: whether the rent subsidies will be available only to the tenant and sub-renter, because the Act does not say anything about the owners of the apartments or even the persons holding the cooperative tenant's right to the premises. In this respect, too, we have been given explanations. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka asked whether there was a need to introduce a new name for TBS, to change the name TBS to SIM, and whether it was appropriate to introduce so many terms in the various legal records. Well, it's about 14 days, but it's also about 1 January 2023. We have also received explanations from representatives of the Ministry on this matter. Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, with the proposals of the Polish Metropolitan Union, paid attention to the leakage of the system of granting municipal housing and the need for its statutory sealing, on the way of defining income from individuals and on the inability to combine loans with the subsidy fund. On the other hand, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz raised the problem of tenants from the former TBS, which were liquidated and taken over by the municipalities with total settlement. These tenants are treated differently than municipal tenants, e.g. with regard to the possibility of buying out these apartments or obtaining discounts. Guests also took part in the discussion: the director of the Polish Towns Association and a representative of the Polish Districts Association. All the problems raised were addressed by representatives of development and infrastructure departments, which allowed the senators to abandon some of the amendments previously tabled. Several amendments were tabled at the meeting of the Joint Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration and the Committee on Infrastructure. All the amendments proposed by the Senate Legislative Office have been taken over by me and Senator Rotnicka. Together with Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, we finally tabled four amendments, which were requested primarily by representatives of local government and social housing associations. Up to 14 amendments were tabled by the Chair of the Infrastructure Committee, Mr Jan Hamerski. On the second day of the meeting, only the votes on the 55 amendments previously tabled took place. Finally, there are 45 amendments in the resolution. The voting was very efficient. Most of the amendments were voted unanimously and only a few were voted by a small majority. With full responsibility, I would like to recommend to the High House that this law be adopted together with the amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u259	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? If so, I'd like to inform you... Oh, I don't even have to inform you because I don't think there's anyone willing to ask questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development, Work and Technology was authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Development, Labour and Technology Anna Kornecka: Mr Marshal, High Izbo, thank you very much for adopting the committee report. I think that the senator has so meticulously explained the scope of this law that I can limit myself to answering the questions that you will possibly ask.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, the senators... You know, you've been a little ahead of me, but I need to read this formula. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Sekuła. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u260	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! In the context of a law that promotes the development of housing, I would like to ask you about a law that has been under investigation for some time now and which concerns cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u261	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u262	It's not part of this bill, but I'll say we're on interministerial terms. With the Government Legislation Centre we set out the details of this law, so that in the near future we expect a legislative initiative in this area from our side. [[I saw that bill about eight months ago.]] We added to it an element concerning housing cooperatives, so that we process it a little more. She's still in the legislative process.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u263	Thank you very much, Minister. I don't see any other senators willing to ask questions. I inform you senators that a representative of the government has not undertaken to reply in writing to the questions because such requests have not been addressed to the representative of the government. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. Senators Alexander Szwed, Tadeusz Kopeć, Mariusz Gromko, Eve Gawada and Janusz Błucherz submitted their speeches to the minutes. As I understand it, due to the fact that no debate has been held, no legislative proposals have been made. Yet Senator Krzysztof Brejza was gracious to submit his speech to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm asking the senator to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u264	I'm politely informing you... [[It's worth turning on the microphone.]] I kindly inform you that the Health Committee meeting... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] Now I can... [[Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that the meeting of the Health Committee on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate to the Act amending the Law on the amendment of certain laws in relation to the prevention of crisis situations related to the occurrence of COVID-19, Senate printing No 256, and to the Law on the profession of pharmacist, Senate printing No 255, will take place tomorrow, i.e. Friday, November 27th, 8:00 p.m. in room 182. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2020-11-26-senat-18-2.u265	Thank you very much, Senator. I'm about to announce a recess until 9:00. Tomorrow, at 9:00 p.m., we will begin the session at 9:00 p.m., which is the State Aid Act. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I declare a recess until 9 a.m. tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the sitting at 21 minutes 18]]
